Document of                                FILE
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3509-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$75.2 MILLION
TO
OFFICE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES ET D'EXPLOITATIONS PETROLIERES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL PROJECT
April 4, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1 = DH6.3
DHI = US$O.159
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BBL      barrels
BCF      billion (standard) cubic feet
BD       barrels per day
BRPM     Bureau de Recherches et de
Participations Minieres
MEM      Ministry of Energy and Mines
MW       Megawatts
ONAREP   Office National de Recherches et
d'Exploitations Petrolieres
ONE      Office National de l'Electricite
SAMIR    Societe Anonyme Marocaine de
l'Industrie du Rafinage
SCP      Societe Cherifienne des P6troles
TOE      Tons of crude oil equivalent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Office National de Recherches
et d'Exploitations Petrolieres (ONAREP)
Guarantor:           Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:              US$75.2 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:               Amortization in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Description: The proposed project aims to: (i) complete the delineation
and appraisal of gas reserves discovered at Meskala,
including adjacent areas in the Essaouira basin, in order
to assess their potential contribution to meeting national
energy needs; (ii) carry out the preparatory studies
necessary to identify the policies, investments,
institutional arrangements and modifications to Morocco's
overall energy strategy, necessary for eventual
development and marketing of gas and condensates; (iii)
evaluate and promote additional petroleum prospects among
foreign oil companies, in order to attract further foreign
investment for petroleum exploration; and (iv) strengthen
ONAREP's technical and managerial capacity so that it can
plan and carry out its functions as cost-effectively as
possible. The project comprises: (a) drilling, testing
and completion of up to 9 appraisal/exploratory wells; (b)
geophysical studies; (c) technical studies (reservoir
engineering, gas utilization, detailed design of pipeline
and surface facilities); (d) gathering, analysis and
presentation of data for exploration promotion; and (e)
technical assistance and training for ONAREP. The main
benefit from the project would be the eventual design and
implementation of a gas development project which would
permit the replacement of imported petroleum products by
domestic natural gas and liquid condensates.  Additional
benefits would be the generation of information needed for
Government decisions on energy investments and policies;
the attraction of foreign risk capital for investment in
petroleum exploration; and the strengthening of ONAREP's
capacity to design and implement petroleum exploration and
development strategies. Project risks which relate to the
uncertainties concerning the commerciality of the Meskala
reservoir and the justification of an exploration program
of the proposed scope, have been reduced by a flexible
. This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
project design combining a prudent balance between
appraisal and exploration and decision points which permit
adaptation of the work program to evolving results.
Another risk concerns ONAREP's ability to implement the
project efficiently, which has been reduced by technical
assistance and training.
Project Cost Estimates I/
Local    Foreign    Total
-------(US$ Million)-----
Drilling and well testing                 16.7       32.6      49.3
Geophysical surveys                        1.0        5.9        6.9
Technical studies                          2.4        2.8        5.2
Exploration promotion                      3.3       13.1       16.4
Technical assistance                       1.9        9.1       11.0
Total Base Cost                    25.3       63.5       88.8
Physical contingencies                     2.5        5.8        8.3
Price contingencies                        3.2        5.7        8.9
Total Project Cost                 31.0       75.0      106.0
Front-end fee                               -         0.2        0.2
Total Required Financing                  31.0       75.2      106.2
Financing Plan
IBRD                                       -         75.2      75.2
ONAREP                                    31.0         .        31.0
Total                              31.0       75.2      106.2
Estimated disbursements:                            -    US$ Million----
Bank fiscal year                              1984   1985   1986
Annual                                        30.2   35.0   10.0
Cumulative                                    30.2   65.2   75.2
Rate of Return:               Not applicable
Appraisal Report:             Staff Appraisal Report No. 4283-MOR
dated April 4, 1983
1/    Includes duties and taxes of $9.1 million equivalent (DH 57.3 million)
estimated on the basis of a rate of 12.1% on all imported materials and
services.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US;75.2 MILLION
TO THE OFFICE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES ET D'EXPLOITATIONS PETROLIERES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL PROJECT
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres, with the
guarantee of the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$75.2 million
including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a petroleum
exploration and appraisal project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. A report on Morocco's Public Sector
Investment Program for 1981-85 is expected to be distributed to the Board
shortly. An economic mission on industrial incentives and export promotion
was in Morocco in September 1982. Country and Economic Data Sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources.  Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil shale resources which could become significant energy sources
in the long term. There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves. Morocco has also a relatively good agricultural potential. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
*-           migration with the EEC countries.
1/ Parts I and II are essentially the same as in the Oulmes-Rommani
Agricultural Development Project (Report No. P-3413-MOR of November 22,
1982).



-2-
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the
share of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor force
was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural sector,
and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise exports, with
phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Expansion in the Mid-1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic polic.y became more ambitious, and the
original 1973-77 Development Plan strategy stressed an intensified savings
effort and development of exports. In 1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate
prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled, and although the
petroleum import bill also quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the
balance of payments remained in surplus. The Plan's concern for exports and
savings lost some of its urgency. The Government launched a massive public
investment program which brought about a sharp acceleration in the rate of
growth of the economy, and GDP grew at the rate of 6.7% per year between
1973-1977. The expansion of the investment program also led to a considerable
increase in demand for imported goods and services, whose share in GDP doubled
from 19% in 1972 to 37% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Phosphate
prices continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as
for tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession. Agricultural production and exports entered a period of prolonged
stagnation and Morocco turned from a net exporter to a net importer of
foodstuffs. As a result of all these factors, the growth of exports of goods
and nonfactor services, which in constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in
1968-72, averaged only 1% a year in 1973-77.
7.       Accelerated investment, growing public expenditures, and particularlv
increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western
Sahara, created strong pressures on both the balance of payments and the
Government budget. While investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early
1970s to 32% in 1977, gross domestic savings rose briefly from 15% of GDP in
1972 to 20% of GDP in 1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to
10-12% in 1976-77. The large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose
to an unsustainable 20% of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance
the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the international capital market, which
led to rapid increases in external debt and the debt service burden. The debt
service ratio rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7%
in 1977.



8.        The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and of
the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 22% of GDP
in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues. Budgetary
outlays rose from 19% of GDP in 1972 to 39% in 1977. As a result, the
Government's overall budget deficit increased sharply, reaching peaks of 18%
of GDP in 1976 and 1977.
Stabilization Program 1978-1980
.
9.        In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels.
In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was cut back bv
nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetarv expenditure held
down to 3% (in real terms). These measures of fiscal restraint were combined
with tight credit policies and stringent import controls. As a result, the
overall budget deficit declined to about 10% of GDP and the external pavments
situation improved in 1978. Later, however, the stabilization program
encountered a number of obstacles, including poor harvests, petroleum price
increases and the rise in interest on the commercial debt. In addition,
internal pressures led to some relaxation of the highly restrictive fiscal
policy adopted in 1978. By 1980 both fiscal and external imbalances were
still substantial: the resource gap (in current prices) remained at about 11%
of GDP, and the ratio of the overall budget deficit to GDP at about 12%.
10.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period was
achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments, which
dropped from 27% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on the
public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies. The latter tripled
in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized staple food
and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in import costs for
these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of current expenditure
reached 27% in 1980 and their share of GDP represented 22%.
11.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantiallv
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction in
capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price and volume increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and received a
significant boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus,
despite a large increase in the petroleum import bill and a rise in external
debt interest payments, the current account deficit before grants was reduced
from $1.8 billion, or 17% of GDP, in 1977 to about tl.4 billion, or 8% of GDP,
in 1980.



- 4 -
12.      The adverse impact of the stabilization program on employment has
probably been substantial in contrast with the rapid rate of employment
creation during 1973-77. On the whole, the policies followed since 1978 have
had a high cost in terms of growth and employment and appear to have been only
partly successful in their short-term stabilization objectives.
Recent Developments
13.      In 1981, the economy was subjected to strong external shocks:  a
substantial increase of imports of cereals, following a drougbt which reduced
agricultural value added by about 23% in real terms; a large appreciation of
the US dollar; and a rise in foreign interest rates, which further increased
the cost of debt service. As a result of these factors, economic and
financial performance worsened. Gross domestic product fell by 1.3% in real
terms, the Treasury deficit reached 14% of GDP in 1981, and the current
account deficit reached $1.9 billion in 1981 (12.6% of GDP). Economic
activity improved in 1982 as agricultural production recovered thanks to a
good harvest, but phosphate prices weakened. adversely affecting export
earnings. GDP is estimated to have increased by 5 to 6% in real terms but the
external payments situation has not improved significantly. The budgetary
situation improved somewhat as a result of a combination of tax increases and
expenditure restraining the measures adopted in the framework of a stand-by
agreement reached with the IMF in April 1982, but the Treasury deficit remains
high.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The initial development strategy in the 1981-85 Plan period was to
reach a high rate of GDP growth (6.5%), needed to obtain an acceleration of
employment creation and a strengthening of Government programs for social and
regional development. The Plan projection was, however, too ambitious and
although the financial constraint lessened somewhat in 1982 as the economy
recovers from the 1981 drought, Morocco's external financial situation will
remain difficult in 1982-85 and will continue to constrain GDP growth.
15.      Bank projections for the 1981-85 Plan period are based on the
assumption that exports of goods and non-factor services could grow by 5.8% in
real terms, while imports of goods and non-factor services would be allowed to
rise by no more than 0.5% p.a. in real terms, as the need for food imports is
expected to diminish, the increase in capital goods and oil imports to slow
down, and payments for military equipment to be lower. Moreover, the growth
in investment expenditures would not exceed 3.1% p.a. in real terms. Given
these assumptions, domestic savings could recover from the abnormally low 1981
level (7.8% of GDP) to reach 12.5 % of GDP in 1985, the resource gap would
gradually decline from 13.3% of GDP in 1981 to 7.5% in 1985, while GDP could
still grow at about 4.5% p.a. in real terms or just over 1% per capita.
16.      The projected export growth would result from an increase (in real
terms) of 6.6% in phosphate and pbosphate based products and 9.5% p.a. in
manufactured products between 1981-85. Such a performance would depend upon



- 5 -
identification of new markets and could be accomplished only if high priority
is given to export promotion. In the case of finished and intermediate
products, the extent to which the projected increase in exports would
materialize depends on the revision of incentives granted to exporters, the
diversification of Moroccan exports towards non-traditional exports and new
markets, and the appropriate level of the exchange rate.
17.      A sustained reduction of the trade gap will be difficult to achieve
unless growth of merchandise imports is drastically curtailed. This would
require not only a higher increase in agricultural output so that the level of
food imports would decline in real terms, but also an effective domestic
pricing policy so as to limit the growth of petroleum imports (assumed at 1.3%
p.a.) from 1981 to 1985. It would require moreover a reduction of the capital
goods imports growth to 1.8% p.a. in 1981-85 through cuts in Treasury civilian
investment with respect to the level planned in the 1981-85 Plan, and a
revision of the various investment codes so as to reduce financial incentives
to imported capital goods.
18.      In view of the projected stagnation in per capita household incomes,
any significant increase in domestic savings would mainly come from
substantial improvements in Government savings performance. As part of the
1982 stand-by arrangement between Morocco and the IMF, several measures and
reductions in real Government expenditures were implemented in 1982. The
Bank's projections assume that progress will continue in this area.
19.      Given the strong constraints on investment levels, the future rate of
growth of the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation
and the efficiency of investment. In conformity with the Plan objectives, the
Government should start fewer large capital-intensive projects and restrict
the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.   Priority is to be
given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive and which
use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition, particular
attention will have to be paid by the Government to manpower planning and to
the employment effect of investments in order to prevent unemployment from
rising.
Social Development
20.      Social expenditures have been at a high level in recent years,
accounting for more than half of current outlays.  However, social indicators
still appear to be at a relatively low level in Morocco. The limited
effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the lower income groups,
especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as a major issue, and
the strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes rural development in
rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in Morocco currently live,
and the need to improve mechanisms for delivering services to meet basic needs
at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is also being
made to increase the involvement of local communities in meeting basic needs,
particularly for low cost housing, water supply, sewerage and
electrification. Although rapid results cannot be expected in any of these



-6-
areas, implementation of these policies would help meet the needs of
low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
21.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $7O
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. In October 1980, the
IMF approved an extended arrangement for a three-year period in the amount of
SDR 810 million in support of a medium term program of financial adjustment.
This arrangement was interrupted in 1981 when it appeared that the assumptions
and targets of the EFF program were no longer possible. It was replaced in
1982 by a stand-by arrangement in the amount of SDR 281 million and purchase
of SDR 236 million under the Compensatory Financing Facility. The 1982
financial program, which was supported by the standby arrangement now drawing
to a close, sought to reduce the deficit in the current account of the balance
of payments (excluding grants) to 10% of GDP and to decrease the overall
Treasury deficit by one-third to 8% of GDP. Other major elements of the
program included an upward revision of the interest rate structure, restraint
in overall credit and monetary expansion, further trade liberalization, and
progress with respect to both tax reform and reform of the state enterprises.
Preliminary data indicates that the targets under the standby for end-1982
were met. The performance criteria of the program were observed and Morocco
was able to make the last drawing under the standby arrangement in February
1983. Discussions are underway of a possible further standby arrangement for
1983/84.
22.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $8.4 billion (disbursed only) by December 1981. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $l.8 billion in 1981. Debt service amounted to $1.2
billion in 1980, $1.3 billion in 1981 and $1.5 billion in 1982 (27%, 31% and
35% respectively, of total exports of goods and services). As a result of
recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to average $l.8
billion annually during 1982-85. Because of the growing burden of debt
service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and selective since
1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government will have to
continue this policy over the next few years while taking special measures to
expand exports.
23.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1368 million in 1978. In 1979-80
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). In 1981 they
are estimated at $1759 million. Major sources of aid were France, Saudi
Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the end of 1981,
the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was 7.5%. The share of the Bank Group in debt service was 21% in 1976
and declined to 15% in 1977, and 7% in 1981. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares
in debt outstanding and in debt service are projected at about 10 and 11%
respectively.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
24.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 61 projects, financing
a total of $2,109.7 million (net of cancellations), of which t1,351.5 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY1978. IDA credits, totalling
$50 million, have been made available for five projects and a Third Window
loan for $25 million has been made for an education project. IFC investments
have amounted to $61.6 million ($41.6 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments and notes on the execution of
ongoing IBRD/IDA projects as of February 28, 1983. Overall performance in
project execution is satisfactory, althougb in some cases, delays in project
implementation have been caused by management problems and budgetary
constraints.
25.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 28 percent and 26 percent,
respectively of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (16
percent), tourism (9 percent), education (8 percent), roads (6 percent),
energy (4 percent) and urban development (3 percent). The main objectives of
Bank lending in previous years were to foster and strengthen development
institutions and to increase productive capacity, in order to improve the
balance of payments. While these objectives remain, Bank lending now also
focuses on supporting a number of other policy objectives: to contribute to
the reduction of the Treasury deficits; to lower unit costs for the delivery
of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and increase access
by lower-income groups; and to increase employment and improve income
distribution.
26.      Since FY75, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in the
productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The Meknes and
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Projects address this objective in the favorable
cereal producing zone. The Loukkos, Middle Atlas, Forestry and Oulmas-Rommani
projects extend support to less favorably endowed regions. Four lines of
credit to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) have helped provide
credit to farmers, and a fifth project is under preparation.   An irrigation
project aims at development of small and medium schemes. Increased export
earnings are expected to result from the Bank-supported project for Vegetable
Marketing and Production, as well as from a project currently under
preparation to improve the efficiency of the coastal fishing industry. The
scope of future lending is likely to be expanded to include projects aimed at
improving input supply and marketing nationwide.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings have also been the key
objectives of Bank projects in industry, mining and tourism and led to nine
lines of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
(BNDE) for industrial projects and four lines of credit to Credit Immobilier
et H8telier (CIH) for tourism projects. A project to increase mineral export
earnings and raise the incomes of small-scale miners in southeastern Morocco
was approved by the Board in FY82.



- 8 -
28.      Projects in basic infrastructure and services have concentrated on
improving the efficiency of existing investments and extending services to
rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban development project aims at
supporting the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families and a third urban project is helping
to provide finance to low income housing. Two highway projects support the
Government's road maintenance efforts and improve rural access roads. A loan
for village electrification is helping bring power to over a hundred small
towns and villages, and a third water supply project is providing access to
safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas.
29.      Five education projects have focused on secondary level technical
education and teacher training, on expanding basic education in the rural
areas and on ensuring a greater orientation in primary schooling towards
practical training. Further lending will be focussed on vocational training
and on primary education.
30.      In order to reduce Morocco's dependence on oil imports, the
Government has made considerable efforts to develop national resources,
notably of gas and oil shale. These efforts are being supported by the Bank
through a first gas exploration project and an engineering project aimed at
studying the viability of developing the country's oil shale resources. A
second exploration and appraisal project is the subject of this report, and
additional projects for coal and hydropower development are being studied.
31.      Morocco's disbursement performance improved in FY82.  Disbursement
shortfalls are, however, still being experienced, particularly for a few
projects in new sectors, due mainly to institutional or project management
problems. These cases are being closely monitored and implementation
schedules have been established specifying critical actions, in agreement with
the Government. In some projects, implementing agencies have been slow in
submitting disbursement requests to the Ministry of Finance for transmittal to
the Bank, but the Government has recently taken effective measures to resolve
this problem. The rate of disbursement has also been affected by the
appreciation of the dollar against other currencies.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
32.      Morocco suffers from a drastic imbalance between domestic energy
production and consumption. Domestic demand for commercial energy totalled
about 4.75 million tons of energy equivalent (TOE) in 1981, compared to about
0.69 million TOE of domestic primary production (coal: 0.35 million TOE,
hydropower: 0.26 million TOE; natural gas: 0.06 million TOE and oil: 0.02
million TOE). The growing energy deficit has been met almost entirely by oil
imports, whose cost rose to $1.0 billion in 1981, absorbing half of Morocco's
export earnings. In view of Morocco's serious balance of payment problems,
the Government has made reduction of the energy import bill one of its highest
priorities, through moderating the growth of energy demand, diversification of
energy sources, and the development of domestic energy resources.



_9-
Energy Demand
33.      Morocco's energy consumption is still relatively low for a country of
its income level (238 TOE per million $ GNP, compared to 334 TOE for
Tunisia). Electricity represents a large and growing proportion of final
energy consumption (20% in 1965; 26% in 1980) and is projected to account for
as much as 40% in 1995. In 1981, installed generating capacity totalled about
1,840 MW, of which 66% was thermal and 34% hydro. The increasing reliance on
oil products for both electricity generation and final consumption (71% of
total commercial demand in 1965, rising to 85% in 1980), has been
characterized by a sharp increase in the use of fuel oil, which by 1980
represented 45% of the petroleum market.
34.      From 1965-80, demand for commercial energy in Morocco grew by an
average 7.4% p.a., declining to 6.5% p.a in the latter five years. Depending
on success in moderating energy demand increases, total demand could grow to
between 8.6 million TOE (low forecast) and 13.1 million TOE (high forecast) by
1995. The Government is encouraging energy conservation by maintaining the
prices of most energy resources (except electricity and, to a lesser extent,
coal) above their opportunity cost to the economy. In-plant conservation
measures and fuel switching might also have some impact on industrial energy
consumption. Recent petroleum price increases have virtually eliminated the
subsidies which formerly constituted a considerable drain on the Government
budget. Measures to increase and rationalize electricity tariffs are being
discussed with the Government in the context of the proposed Dchar-el-Oued
multipurpose dam and power project, to be negotiated shortly. Coal pricing
would also be addressed through a future project, under preparation. Gas from
existing small fields is sold under long term contracts, and is priced
significantly below its opportunity cost. On the assumption that future
natural gas would be used primarily to replace fuel oil, either directly or
through electricity generation, the Government is expected to price any gas
produced from currently undeveloped fields or new discoveries (sucb as
Meskala) at a price linked to that of fuel oil, with enough of a discount to
encourage gas conversion and rapid market penetration. The Government has
confirmed to the Bank its intention to set the price for all new gas on the
basis of the cost of alternative energy sources.
Energy Supply
35.      The Government is planning to substitute imported steam coal for oil
products in future thermal power plants and might also convert some of the
higb energy-consuming industries if alternative domestic energy sources do not
materialize.  Increased use of imported coal could lower energy import costs
by about 20%. Morocco's oil import bill can only be significantly reduced by
the development of domestic energy resources. The investments required for
the exploitation of currently known resources are large and their economic
viability-must be carefully examined; in some cases they also present
considerable technical risks. Morocco's total hydropower potential is
estimated at 1.1 million TOE per year, of which about one-third is already
developed. The next slice of dams, planned for the 1990's, are multipurpose



- 10 -
and their economic justification will depend on complementary irrigation
investments as well as their energy contribution. Domestic coal production is
expected to be limited to the technically difficult Jerada anthracite mine,
and production is not likely to surpass 0.6 million TOE per year. Wind, solar
and biomass energy could contribute to meeting specific energy needs,
especially in rural areas, but are not expected to have a significant impact
on the commercial energy balance. Morocco's large phosphate reserves could
contain large amounts of uranium; however, its extraction for use in nuclear
power plants does not appear economic with present technology. Several large
oil shale deposits exist in Morocco and are estimated to contain 6 billion
tons of oil. The Government is examining the technical and economic viability
of extracting the sbale oil through retorting with the assistance of the Bank
(Oil Shale Engineering Project: Loan No. 2114-MOR) as well as of foreign
petroleum companies. Also under consideration is the direct combustion of the
shale in power plants. The considerable technical uncertainties, combined
with the large minimum investments required, make it difficult to predict the
potential contribution of oil shale to national energy supplies.
36.      Several small oil fields were discovered in the 1950s and early 1960s
in the Gharb and Essaouira basins (see Map No. IBRD 16879). Annual oil
production peaked in 1963 and declined to 350 BD (19,000 TOE/year) by 1981. A
number of small and shallow gas fields have also been found in these basins,
and a small amount of gas (60,000 TOE p.a.) has been produced since 1975.
Several additional small gas discoveries were made in the late 1970s and
remaining recoverable reserves in all these fields are estimated to total
about 1.5 million TOE. In 1981, gas and liquid condensates were discovered at
Meskala in the Essaouira basin by exploration supported under the first
petroleum exploration project (Loan No. S-18 MOR). If natural gas were
available in sufficient quantities, it is estimated that it could replace
nearly 60% of the direct demand for boiler fuels and at least half of the
demand in electricity generation, primarily by replacing fuel oil. The
availability of both natural gas and condensates could permit about a 40%
reduction in the oil import bill by 1990. The Meskala gas is the best current
prospect for alleviating Morocco's dependence on energy imports in the 1980s.
The Petroleum Exploration Subsector
37.        Morocco possesses all the necessary geological elements for
petroleum deposits: source and reservoir rocks, traps and sealing sediments;
but high quality reservoir rocks have not yet been found and this is the main
issue affecting petroleum prospects. Off-shore and on-shore petroleum
exploration was relatively active in Morocco after independence, primarily
through joint ventures between the foreign oil companies and the Bureau de
Recherches et de Participations Minieres (BRPM), the state agency then
responsible for hydrocarbon exploration. Discoveries were quite small and
limited to the shallower horizons and in the early 1970s, foreign exploration
activity diminished sharply. However, in view of rising prices for imported
oil and new prospects, primarily for gas, the Government encouraged BRPM to
intensify exploration on its own. In 1980, the Bank agreed to support an
expanded three-year program of petroleum exploration and exploration promotion



- 11 -
by BRPM including drilling of deep gas prospects in the Essaouira basin,
through the first petroleum exploration project (Loan S-18 MOR). The
principal result of this project was the discovery of natural gas at Meskala
in the Essaouira basin in 1981. Following the Meskala discovery, the Bank and
ONAREP agreed to focus the remainder of the project on the initial appraisal
of the Meskala prospects rather than continue a wider-ranging exploration
program. The discovery well (MKL-101) was followed by a second appraisal well
(MKL-102), tested in mid-1982, which also indicated the presence of gas,
although with less encouraging results. Two more appraisal wells (relatively
close to the discovery) and an exploratory well about 20 kms from the
discovery are currently being drilled.
38.      Meskala lies in the most productive basin found in Morocco to date;
and the presence of natural gas and liquid condensates in the discovery area
has been established by the tests of the MKL-101 and MKL-102 wells. The gas
is of good quality and is rich in liquid condensates, and there are strong
indications (principally from the unusually high formation pressures in
MKL-101 and MKL-102 and more distant previously drilled wells), that the gas
may spread over a large regiona.l area, and may extend into the deeper
Paleozoic horizons underlying the proven Triassic reservoir. On the other
hand, the Triassic reservoirs encountered in the wells drilled to date have
low porosity and low permeability, and the geological and geophysical
knowledge of reservoir extent is still poor. The exploration and appraisal
work initiated under the ongoing project is expected to provide better
information on the quality of the reservoir. However, given the unknown
extent of the reservoir and insufficient data on recoverability, it is not yet
possible to estimate economically producible reserves. These uncertainties
can only be resolved through a program of drilling and geophysical surveys to
appraise the Meskala discovery and explore its potential extensions in the
surrounding area. In view of the urgency of meeting Morocco's energy needs
from domestic resources, and the impact that establishing significant natural
gas resources wouLd have on Morocco's overall energy investment strategy, it
is essential that the potential of the Meskala discovery be assessed as
quickly as possible.
39.       The Meskala discovery coincided with renewed interest by foreign oil
companies in Morocco's prospects. Three off-shore exploration contracts have
been signed recently with ARCO, Mobil and AMOCO. Interest in the on-shore has
been less active. The Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Company (KFPC) has expressed
recent interest in new on-shore exploration and Apex and SCP
(50% French-owned) are continuing work on existing small discoveries. The
1958 Petroleum Code, already relatively liberal, is currently being revised to
give additional incentives to foreign investors. ONAREP is continuing its
efforts to interest foreign oil companies in joint ventures and a first phase
formal exploration promotion campaign is being financed under the current
petroleum exploration project.
40.      ONAREP has shown the Meskala discovery to several foreign oil
companies which visited Morocco in the past year as well as to its current
joint venture partners. At a time when the international oil industry is
curtailing new exploration activity, a discovery of gas and condensates,



- 12 -
expected to be oriented towards the domestic market and for which export
potential has not yet been demonstrated, is not likely to generate much
interest among foreign oil companies. However from the point of view of the
Moroccan Government and ONAREP, the quality of the gas and the associated
condensates, the proximity of the Meskala discovery to the internal market,
combined with Morocco's high energy import bill, make the Meskala gas
prospects very promising. ONAREP has therefore decided to proceed on its own
to assess the Meskala discovery. At the same time, it will continue the
pre-drilling geological and geophysical work in the remainder of the Essaouira
Basin as well as in other basins, and actively pursue the promotion of
priority exploration areas with foreign oil companies. International oil
companies may be more interested in participating in subsequent phases of the
eventual development of Meskala, once the size and commerciality of the field
is established and particularly if export potential is demonstrated, and
ONAREP intends to reopen this question at that point.
Sector Organization
41.      The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for planning,
coordination and policy-making in the sector. It also supervises several
public enterprises which manage the sector's key activities, most notably: the
Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations P6troli4res (ONAREP) for
hydrocarbon and shale exploration and development; Charbonnages du Maroc,
operator of the Jerada coal mine; the Office National d'Electricite (ONE), for
electricity generation and trasmission (except in major urban areas); and two
petroleum refineries (SAMIR and SCP). Energy prices are set by a special
commission under the Prime Minister's Office. The current Five-Year Plan
(1981-85) foresees a major expansion in energy related investments, which
represent more than 10% of the total investment budget. Government budgetary
contributions are expected to finance part or all of the investments in most
categories, averaging over half the investment costs; the remainder would be
financed by foreign private investment, cash generation from the enterprises
and grants or loans. Coordination and planning of energy and energy-related
investments need to be strengthened and proposed investments are not always
subjected to a least-cost analysis.
42.      ONAREP.  In view of the increased activity and priority of petroleum
exploration, the Government created the Office National de Recherches et
Exploitations Petrolieres (ONAREP) as a separate public enterprise in November
1981, to take over from BRPM the exploration and production of oil, gas and
oil shale, as well as to serve as the national counterpart in joint ventures
with foreign oil companies. The staff, equipment and facilities assigned to
these tasks were transferred to ONAREP and the final separation of assets and
liabilities between the two organizations was agreed in September 1982. Under
the direction of a General Manager and Secretary General, ONAREP's Directorate
for Petroleum Exploration carries out the planning and supervision of
exploration and related geological and geophysical studies, as well as the
promotion and follow-up of joint ventures; the Technical Operations
Directorate is responsible for the design and execution of well drilling,
testing and completion as well as the planning and supervision of production
projects. Separate divisions reporting directly to the General Manager are



- 13 -
responsible for oil shale studies, administration and finance. ONAREP's staff
currently totals nearly 1,000 employees including about 90 Moroccan technical
professionals and 3 teams of expatriate technical specialists (totalling 17)
working under bilateral assistance contracts (USA, USSR and Romania).
43.      ONAREP's management is competent and dynamic, but the shortage of
middle management personnel and the relative youth of many of its technical
staff, who lack extensive field experience, have overburdened the senior
managers with day-to-day operational concerns. Conscious of the need to
strengthen its management and streamline its operations if it is to undertake
an accelerated program of increasing size and complexity, ONAREP commissioned
a diagnostic study of its short and medium term objectives, management
structure and systems, procedures, financing and financial control, and
staffing needs.  This study, which is being financed under the current
petroleum exploration project, is exDected to be completed by June 1983 and
the consultants will make recommendations concerning ONAREP's future
development which would be implemented under the proposed project (see
para. 49). In the short term, ONAREP would be reinforced by technical
assistance for the implementation of The project, as well as by the proposed
staff training program (see paras. 49 and 51).
Role of the Bank
44.      The Bank has previously supported the Government's efforts to improve
energy supply and distribution through several projects: to increase the
generation and transmission capacity cf ONE (Loan 936-MOR for $25 million, and
1299-MOR for $49 million), both completed without major implementation
problems; to expand the rural electricity distribution network (Loan 1695-MOR
for $42 million); to support an intensified program of petroleum exploration
(Loan S-18-MOR for $50 million, see below); and to analyze the tecbnical and
economic feasibility of oil shale retorting (Loan 2114-MOR for $20 million).
A Project Performance Audit Report was carried out for the first power project
(Loan 936-MOR) which signalled the continuing issues of the fragmented power
sector organization as well as cost recovery (tariff adjustments). In early
1982 the Bank carried out an overall energy assessment and a power subsector
study which examined the prospects, planned investment programs and policies
in the sector (Reports No. 4157-MOR and 4135-MOR). The Bank would continue to
support through the proposed project and other projects in the power and
energy sector under preparation, the Government's efforts to analyze, select
and implement the policies and investments for meeting energy needs at least
cost to the economy. Particular attention would be paid to reducing energy
imports and to minimizing the budgetary impact of proposed investments by
improving cost recovery and management efficiency in the sector.
45.      The first petroleum exploration project, approved in early 1980,
helped BRPM (the original Borrower) to upgrade its exploration equipment and
improve the methodology and criteria used for selecting, exploring and
evaluating petroleum prospects. Initial implementation and disbursement
delays stemmed from difficult deep drilling conditions, from BRPM's resistance
to accepting technical assistance, and from cumbersome procedures for
Government release of funds for prefinancing equipment and seismic contracts.



- 14 -
Since the creation of ONAREP and its assumption of BRPM's role in the
hydrocarbon sector, implementation has accelerated. ONAREP has been far more
receptive to external technical assistance and the Government has accepted the
use of direct payment procedures to minimize procurement and disbursement
bottlenecks. The lengthy procedures involved in the establishment of ONAREP,
particularly for the splitting of assets betweeen BRPM and ONAREP, delayed the
transfer of the loan from BRPM to ONAREP (see para. 59). The substitution
agreement was declared effective on February 25, 1983.
46.      In view of the potential impact of significant gas supplies on
Morocco's overall energy strategy, the Bank has encouraged ONAREP to
concentrate its exploration program on the appraisal of the Meskala discovery
in order that the Government may make informed decisions regarding energy-
related investments without delay. The Bank has played a key role in helping
ONAREP define a least-cost field appraisal strategy as well as identifying
appropriate project implementation arrangements to maximize technology
transfer and institution-building. The proposed project would provide the
information necessary for the Government and ONAREP to determine the policies,
investments and institutional arrangements appropriate for the eventual
development of the Meskala gas reserves while continuing to promote
complementary exploration by foreign oil companies in other prospective areas
of the country.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Background
47.      The project was identified in December 1981, during the
implementation of the petroleum exploration Project (Loan No.S-18 MOR), and
prepared by ONAREP. It was appraised in November 1982. Negotiations were
held in Washington in March 1983; the leader of the Moroccan negotiating team
was Mr. Hassan Belkoura of the Prime Minister's Office. The main features of
this project are outlined in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of
this report; a Supplementary Project Data Sheet (Annex III) and Maps
No. IBRD 16879R and No.IBRD 16880R, are also attached. A Staff Appraisal
Report, No.4283-MOR, dated April 4, 1983 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.
48.      The proposed project is designed to:
(1) complete the delineation and appraisal of the Meskala gas discovery,
including exploration of adjacent areas in the Essaouira Basin, in order
to assess the potential contribution of the gas and condensate reserves to
meeting Morocco's energy needs;
(2) carry out the preparatory studies necessary to identify the policies,
investments, institutional arrangements and modifications to Morocco's
energy strategy necessary for eventual development and marketing of the
gas and condensates;



- 15 -
(3) evaluate and promote other petroleum prospects among foreign oil
companies, with a view to attracting further foreign investment for
petroleum exploration;
(4) strengthen ONAREP's technical and managerial capacity, so that it can plan
and carry out its functions as efficiently and cost-effectively as
possible.
Project Description
49.      The project would include the following components:
a)  Drilling, testing and completion of up to 9 deep appraisal/exploratory
wells within the Essaouira Appraisal Area (See Map No. IBRD 16880R).
Appraisal wells would be located in the vicinity of the MKL 101 discovery
well; exploratory wells would be in more distant locations, in order to
search for new hydrocarbon reservoirs;
b)  Geopbygical studies of the Essaouira Appraisal Area, including (i) high
resolution seismic surveys, initially in the vicinity of the Meskala
discovery and expanded, if warranted, to cover the entire area; and
(ii) an airborne gravity and magnetic survey of the Essaouira Basin, to
help provide a greater understanding of the structure of the Meskala fault
block ("horst") and its relation to the larger basin;
c)  Technical studies, including: (i) a reservoir engineering study of the
Meskala area (20m/m); (ii) a comprehensive assessment of the potential
market and alternative uses for natural gas in Morocco (13m/m);
(iii) detailed design of pipeline and surface facilities for an eventual
gas development project, if warranted by established reserves(lOOm/m).
d)  Gathering, analysis and presentation of data for exploration promotion
including: (i) reconnaissance seismic surveys of the Essaouira Basin and
other onshore petroleum basins (these surveys and the high resolution
seismic surveys refered to in b) above, would total 48 seismic
crew/months); (ii) integration of geological and geophysical studies into
technical data packages and formal presentations in Morocco and abroad to
foreign oil companies by industry consultants (12m/m).
e)  Technical assistance for strengthening ONAREP's institutional capacity,
including: (i) technical support for the operational management of the
geophysical and drilling components of the proposed project (272m/m);
(ii) provision of skilled drilling technicians (150m/m);
(iii) implementation of the recommendations of the diagnostic study of
ONAREP's management and structure (see para. 43) (25 m/m); (iv) in-country
and fellowship training for ONAREP's technical staff. The training
program, which covers a portion of ONAREP's 1981-85 training program,
includes 215 m/m of fellowships and about 10 one-week in-country seminars.
50.      The exploration strategy proposed under the project is a prudent
balance between accelerated appraisal of the Meskala gas reserves and



- 16
continuing exploration of the surrounding area to search for better
reservoirs. It represents the minimum program needed to fully assess the
potential of the Meskala discovery in order to make an informed decision on
its eventual development. However, in order to maximize the effectiveness of
ONAREP's exploration activities, the proposed project is designed to be
flexible and allow for changes within each project component as new
information becomes available. A number of decision points are foreseen for
review of the project's results and modification, as appropriate, of the
project's orientation or activities:
-- The objectives and locations for the first five wells have been agreed
between ONAREP and the Bank (2 appraisal/3 exploratory). A decision on
the location and objectives of the subsequent four wells, tentatively
identified, will only be finalized once the results of the first phase
high resolution seismic survey have been analyzed to determine the
correlation between the seismic reflections and the results of the initial
appraisal drilling. Moreover, this final group of wells could be
reoriented based on results up to that point: either to focus more
closely on the Meskala discovery; to appraise a more promising discovery
within the Essaouira Appraisal Area; or, if drilling results have been
very discouraging, to explore other on-shore prospects. The mix between
the high resolution seismic surveys in the Essaouira Appraisal Area and
the reconnaissance surveys of other basins for exploration promotion will
also be decided on the basis of the first phase high resolution survey.
The drilling and seismic work programs would be reviewed every six months
and would not be modified without the Bank's consent (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02 (b)). Disbursements for specialized well services and
seismic services would only be made on the basis of agreed work programs
(Loan Agreement, Schedule I, Part 4(b)). The methodology and criteria for
deciding on the work programs would be detailed in a Supplementary Letter.
-- The detailed design of the pipeline and surface facilities for eventual
gas production would only be initiated if sufficient reserves and well
productivity are confirmed (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part C(l)(b)); the
criteria for this decision would be detailed in the terms of reference for
these studies. The reservoir engineering study, the gas utilization
study, the institutional reinforcement of ONAREP and the consultant
services for exploration promotion, represent follow-up phases to initial
studies financed under the current petroleum exploration project. Their
precise terms of reference would be decided on the basis of the results
and recommendations of the respective first phases, which are expected to
be completed in mid-1983.
Project Implementation
51.      in view of the expansion of its activities foreseen under the
proposed-project, the difficult nature of deep high pressure drilling, the
complex geology of the Essaouira Basin, and the shortage of technical staff
with field experience (see para. 43), ONAREP has obtained (with the Bank's
approval) the technical support of an international oil company, Elf Aquitaine



- 17 -
(France), to set up a task force which will be responsible for all
exploration/appraisal activities in the Essaouira Appraisal Area. The task
force will be comprised of ONAREP technical staff and 11 expatriate
specialists with backstopping from Elf Aquitaine headquarters, to maximize
technology transfer to ONAREP (totalling 272 m/m).  The 11 expatriate
specialists would include: 1 project coordinator, 4 drilling superintendants,
2 drilling engineers, I completion engineer, 2 geologists and 1 geophysicist,
and would be assigned for the last phase of the current project and the
duration of the proposed project. The task force would be supervised by a
joint ONAREP/Elf Aquitaine committee which would meet at least once every two
months, to review results, evaluate the exploration strategy and review the
proposed work programs.  Key members of the task force are already in place;
the remaining expatriate specialists would be in place by September 1, 1983
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
52.      Drilling will be carried out by ONAREP, under force account.  Force
account, combined with the technical support for drilling management described
above, is considered the most cost-effective manner of implementing the
drilling program. However, because of the long average drilling time for
previous wells, ONAREP will also use externally contracted drilling
technicians for two of its rigs to ensure that all four rigs maintain industry
standards and drilling pace. Contractors have already been selected with the
Bank's approval to carry out the seismic surveys (CGG-France), magnetic and
gravity survey (Carson Geoscience-USA) and for supply of drilling technicians
(Forasol Foramer-France). The reservoir engineering study, the gas
utilization study, exploration promotion work and institutional reinforcement
activities, would be carried out by experienced consulting or engineering
firms on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The project would be
implemented over three years. The project is expected to be physically
completed by December 31, 1985; drilling would be completed by December 1984;
technical studies by June 1985; and geophysical and seismic surveys and
interpretation by September 1985.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
53.      The total project cost has been estimated at $106.2 million of which
the foreign exchange cost, with the capitalized front-end fee, amounts to
$75.2 million or 71%. These estimates include taxes and duties equivalent to
$9.1 million or about 8.5% of total project cost. The project cost is in line
with industry costs in developing countries, particularly if viewed in the
light of the difficult drilling conditions and the remoteness of the project
area from infrastructure and facilities. The cost estimates are based on
mid-1982 pricesl/ except for recently signed contracts (technical support,
seismic surveys, drilling technicians and gravity magnetic survey), which are
based on actual costs. A physical contingency of 10% was applied to local and
foreign costs, with the exception of the gravity magnetic survey for which the
work program is well defined. Price escalations for foreign costs have been
1/ Costs were reviewed at negotiations but remained unchanged, as costs of
materials and services in the oil industry have generally not increased
since mid-1982.



- 18 -
assumed at 8% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984 and 7% for 1985; price
escalations for local costs have been assumed at 13.8% for 1982, 9% for 1983
and 1984 and 7.5% for 1985. No price escalation was included for 1983 for
contracts just signed. Drilling costs were based on ONAREP's recent
expenditures for drilling activities as well as upon budget estimates for
imported materials and equipment. The rate given in the Elf-Aquitaine
contract was used to estimate the cost of technical support for project
management ($22,250 per man-month, including subsistence and travel). This
rate, thougb higb, is deemed reasonable since ONAREP is seeking a high level
of expertise from an international oil company where the opportunity cost of
personnel is higb. In estimating the cost of the studies and other consultant
services, a rate of $15,250 per man-month was assumed. Training costs were
estimated at $4,650 per man-month for foreign fellowships, and at about
$20,000 average cost per in-country seminar.
54.      The proposed Bank loan of US$75.2 equivalent would finance 100% of
the foreign exchange cost, including $0.2 million for the capitalized front
end fee. ONAREP would finance the local costs. ONAREP would be the Borrower
for the Bank loan and would bear the foreign exchange risk as well as the risk
of variations in interest rates on the Bank loan. The Government has
guaranteed to provide ONAREP with sufficient funds to repay the principal, the
interest and other charges on the Bank loan (Guarantee Agreement, Section
2.02(c)). The Bank retains the option to refinance the Bank loan in the event
of a future development loan (Loan Agreement, Preamble, Para. C). The
possibility of cofinancing for the project is presently under discussion. It
was agreed during negotiations that, in the event such cofinancing
materializes before December 31, 1983, the Government and ONAREP would request
cancellation of the corresponding portion of the Bank loan.
55.      Due to competing claims on tight budgetary resources, the Treasury
has on occasion delayed disbursement of allocated budget funds to ONAREP. The
resulting cash flow problems can lead to depletion of stocks and costly
interruption of exploration activity. In order to insure that ONAREP has
sufficient funds to meet the financing requirements of the project, assurances
were obtained from the Government that it would allocate and disburse funds so
that ONAREP would be able to carry out the project in a timely manner
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02(a)). In return, ONAREP gave assurances
that it would identify, in collaboration with the Treasury, and subsequently
submit the documentation on progress of work, payments made and cash flow
projections, needed for the Treasury to periodically reassess ONAREP's
financing requirements (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04). In order to facilitate
these assurances, the Government and ONAREP agreed upon and submitted to the
Bank a timetable projecting the allocation and release of funds to ONAREP
throughout the project implementation period, which would be updated annually.



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursement
56.      The drilling, completion and testing of wells would be carried out by
force account (estimated at about $12.8 million), using Bank-financed
materials, equipment and service contracts. Goods and services would be
procured through ICB according to Bank guidelines (for a total amoujnt of $38.0
million),with the exception of specialized equipment, materials and services
which are available from a limited number or single suppliers (totalling
$24.0 million), which would be procured under LIT or other procedures
acceptable to the Bank.  In addition, direct purchases using ONAREP's own
procedures (LCB), of equipment and services costing less than $150,000 would
be allowed, up to an aggregrate amount of $2.0 million. All bid packages
having value of $500,000 or above would be subject to Bank review prior to
contract award; other packages would be reviewed subsequently. Consultant
services would be procured according to Bank guidelines. In certain cases
(technical support, gravity and magnetic survey, seismic surveys) the
contractors or consultants have already been selected with Bank approval (see
para. 52). Total advance contracting is estimated at about $20 million. Some
$7 million of these services and long lead-time delivery items contracted
since November 15, 1982 according to Bank guidelines, would be financed
retroactively (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, part 4(a)).
57.      Disbursement would be for (i) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
the following categories: equipment and materials, specialized well services,
specialized geophysical services and training; (ii) 100% of the foreign costs
and of 80% of the local costs for consultant services; and (iii) the front-end
fee. Disbursements are expected to begin by September 1983 and be completed
by June 30, 1986. ONAREP is expected to make considerable use of Procedure
III-Direct Payments, to avoid administrative bottlenecks and accelerate
disbursements.
Reporting, Accounts, Audits and Insurance.
58.      Assurances were obtained that ONAREP would prepare periodic progress
reports and foward to the Bank all studies financed under the project (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05). An understanding was reached during negotiations
that ONAREP would keep the Bank regularly informed of the drilling and testing
status of the wells and the seismic surveys. Assurances were also obtained
that ONAREP would inform the Bank of any additional studies or exploration to
be carried out in the Essaouira Appraisal Area and exchange views with the
Bank on such activities or on any plans to develop the resources discovered or
appraised under the project (Loan Agreement, Section 4.07).
59.      Because of the delays in agreeing on a final separation of assets and
liabilities between ONAREP and BRPM (para. 45), ONAREP's opening balance sheet
(January 1, 1982) could not be certified. An action plan based on
recommendations by the auditors was agreed upon by ONAREP and the Government,
to clarify most of the outstanding issues for the audit of the 1982 accounts
and permit certification of 1983 accounts, and on this basis the transfer of
Loan No. S-18 MOR from BRPM to ONAREP was made effective. Assurances were



- 20 -
obtained during negotiations that ONAREP would complete this action plan by
December 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). ONAREP will continue to
have its annual accounts audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the
Bank and submitted to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each financial
year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).  In addition, ONAREP's financing,
accounting and financial control procedures will be reviewed as part of the
two phase institutional study (para. 43). ONAREP maintains insurance coverage
against blow-outs, fires or cratering. An understanding was reached during
negotiations that the Government would cover additional expenses arising from
such accidents, if complementary insurance were deemed too expensive.
ONAREP's Financial Position
60.      ONAREP's opening balance sheet (January 1, 1982) indicates total
assets of $77.5 million equivalent. 83% of ONAREP's capital was represented
by Government equity. For the immediate future, ONAREP will continue to rely
heavily on Government budgetary support, provided to ONAREP as equity.
However, during 1982-84, it is expected that ONAREP's debt/equity ratio would
increase to about 40/60, primarily due to the increased long term debt
represented by the two existing Bank loans and the proposed loan. In order to
ensure that ONAREP's capitalization remains satisfactory, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would not convert any of its
equity contributions to ONAREP into debt without prior agreement of the Bank
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02). Due to the uncertain nature of petroleum
exploration, it is impossible to predict ONAREP's medium term revenues at this
stage. Nonetheless, ONAREP must even now maintain sufficient liquidity to be
able to carry out its operations efficiently. Assurances were therefore
obtained from ONAREP and the Government that ONAREP would maintain at all
times a quick ratio of not less than 1.0 (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05;
Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02(b)). In addition, a full review of ONAREP's
financial situation is scheduled for March 31, 1984, at which time the Bank
would decide whether or not to refinance Loan S-18 MOR (First Petroleum
Exploration Project) out of a subsequent development loan. The prospects for
gas development should be sufficiently clear by that time to allow a more
complete evaluation of ONAREP's future finances and the determination of
appropriate financial performance targets.
Benefits and Risks
61.      The main benefit of the proposed project would be the eventual design
and implementation of a gas development project which would permit the
production and delivery of natural gas and liquid condensates to replace
imported petroleum products. Firmly establishing the size and commerciality
of the Meskala reserves, whether the results are positive or negative, will
help the Government to take important decisions on its future energv
investment strategy. An additional benefit would be the attraction of foreign
risk capital for investment in petroleum exploration or development,
stimulated either by the Meskala prospects or by the improved data and
analysis on other petroleum prospects generated by the exploration promotion
component of the project. Finally, the technology transfer and managerial



- 21 -
know-how to be provided through technical assistance and training will improve
ONAREP's ability to plan and design the most cost-effective strategy for
exploring and developing Morocco's hydrocarbon resources.
62.      The Meskala gas discovery constitutes the best current prospect among
Morocco's energy resources for significantly reducing Morocco's dependence on
imported oil before the end of the 1980's. Nevertheless, there are a number
of risks inherent to petroleum exploration projects, which are discussed below
and which could affect the eventual commerciality of the gas discovery. The
principal risk in this project rises from the fact that the reservoir of gas
and liquid condensates discovered at Meskala may not be large enough, or that
recoverability may be too low, to justify commercial production. If the
reservoir deteriorates away from the discovery or is absent, the prospects for
an economic development of Meskala would be limited.  However, any improvement
of the Triassic reservoir in some direction from the discovery well, the
proving of better reservoirs in other more distant locations in the
surrounding area, or the discovery of reservoirs in the Paleozoic, would make
development highly commercial. Although it is still premature to give firm
estimates on Meskala reserves and production potential, three scenarios were
constructed, based on the judgements possible from currently available
information: (i) a "best estimate" of recoverable reserves of 330 BCF gas and
20 million BBL liquids, which would produce an average of 1.1 million TOE p.a;
(ii) a high scenario, with 460 BCF gas and 27.6 million BBL liquids, or
1.5 million TOE p.a; and (iii) a low scenario, with 210 BCF gas and
12.6 million BBL liquids, or 0.5 million TOE p. a. At constant petroleum
prices as of end March, 1983, and assuming high average drilling costs and low
per-well productivity and recoverability, the rate of return for the "best
estimate" scenario is 24%; 41% for the high scenario; and 20% for the low
scenario. The rate of return is 14% even if the low gas estimate is combined
with 50% less liquids. A sensitivity analysis assuming a 15% drop in oil
prices from current levels still gave acceptable rates of return. Because of
the structure and location of the domestic energy market, there is no risk
that even the high estimate for gas production could not be absorbed.
63.      The proposed project represents the minimum program needed for an
adequate assessment of the Meskala discovery and a determination of its
commerciality. The flexibility of the exploration strategy adopted under the
project, which combines both appraisal and exploratory drilling to assess the
reservoir near the discovery well while at the same time exploring other zones
either in the Triassic or Paleozoic horizons within the Essaouira area which
might have better quality reservoirs, reduces the risk of overdrilling the
Meskala discovery. The decision points built into the project design (see
para. 50, allow for adequate flexibility during implementation to take into
account the results of the drilling and seismic surveys as they evolve.
Overall, the proposed investment of some $100 million is the least cost
program to assess fully the commerciality of the Meskala discoverv. It does
not pose-an unreasonable risk for Morocco, given the promising results of the
drilling to date and the limited alternative options for reducing its energy
deficit.



- 22 -
64.      Risks relating to the ability of ONAREP to implement such an
accelerated exploration program, given the difficult drilling and conditions,
have been reduced by the provision of technical support for project
implementation (see para. 51) and the longer term institutional reinforcement
activities. There is also a risk that the exploration promotion work would
not result in additional foreign investment. However even in the absence of
new investment, the information generated would help ONAREP and the Government
in formulating Morocco's future petroleum exploration and overall energy
development strategies.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.      The Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank,
the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Office National de Recherches et
d'Exploitations Petrolieres and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
66.      Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
67.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
68.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 4, 1983



- 23 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVENtGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            446.6/c                                                   MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAI.    212. 27c                             MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                 220.0       340.0     900.0               1253.6                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL FQUIVALENT)     163.2       214.0    302.3                 713.5                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 11626.0     14993.0  20182.0
URBAN POPIULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3       34.6      40.6                 47.3                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      35.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        81.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2090
POPULATION DENSITY
a                             PER SQ. EM.                       26.0        33.6      43.8                 35.8                    35.2
PIR SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     61.1        75.0      96.6                420.9                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.8        47.6      46.1                 44.3                    39.7
15-64 YRS.                         52.6        48.3      50.7                 52.4                    56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         4.2       3.2                  3.3                     4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.6         2.5       3.0                  2.8                     2.4
URBAN                              3.7         4.2       4.6                  4.6                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.8        47.3      44.9                 41.2                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     23.4        17.2      12.7                 12.2                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5         3.5       3.2                  2.9                     2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        25.1      78.0/d
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         1.0       5.4/d
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)          99.0        98.0      88.0                100.4                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  100.8       103.0     106.5/e              108.5                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          64.6        66.5      68.3/a               71.9                    66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.8        12.6      13.5/a               18.0                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     36.8        26.6      15.5                 15.1                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.7        51.7      56.5                 56.9                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)              180.5       136.3     107.2                104.3                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             30.6        51.0      55.0/d               59.1                    65.6
URBAN                             58.7        92.0     100.0/d               83.1                    78.9
RURAL                             19.0        28.0      25.0/d               39.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        29.0        ..                   ..                    59.3
URBAN                               ..        75.0        ..                   ..                    75.3
RURAI                               ..         4.0        ..                   ..                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          9406.1     12814.5   11037.4/d             4015.5                  1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2742.2    1826.3/e             1802.2                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAI BED
TOTAL                            625.6       664.3     773.6/e              641.7                   477.4
URBAN                               ..       454.7    623.4/e               538.3                   679.8
RURAL                               ..      5821.4   3089.6/e              2403.3                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BE1           ..        15.5      17.9/a               25.5                    27.3
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.8         5.5
LRBAN                              4.3         4.9
RURAL                              5.1         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.2         2.4
URBAN                              2.1         2.1
RURAL                              2.3         2.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
TRBAN                               ..        68.4      65.0/e
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 24                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
_ MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE)GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA 6            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb            MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAI                47.0         52.0       75.0                   88.7                     104.3
MALE                  67.0         67.0       93.0                  104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                27.0         36.0       56.0                   72.0                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   5.0         13.0       22.0                   39.7                      41.3
MALE                    7.0         18.0      27.0                   49.3                      40.4
FEMtALE                2.0           7.0      17.0                   29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  30.2             2.3        2.8                  10.1                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             42.4         34.3       40.3                   34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                            6.3         20.4       21.0/f                 23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          13.8         21.4      28.0                   43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          10.7         14.8       19.6/d                 17.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          45.6         62.4      107.5                  131.3                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4         11.6       38.4                   44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    22.1         16.2       11.8                  31.5                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0              ..        2.0/e                 1.7                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3388.7       3945.2    5294.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    10.0         14.2       15.8                   10.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               62.0          57.0      52.0                   42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.0         17.0       21.0                   27.8                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  29.1         26.3      26.2                   26.0                      33.6
MALE                                   52.1         45.2       44.2                  46.2                      50.4
FEMALE                                  5.9          7.5        8.3                   5.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6          2.0        1.9                   1.9                        1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
RURAL                                  ..           ..     219.0./i
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/g          20.0L*
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.3           49.0_/g
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0_j.&         4.0/        *
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0]         ' 12.01        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               107.0        157.0     389.0                  279,2
RURAL                                66.0        101.0     238.0                  178.6                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      242.0                  403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..     257.0                  285.6                     371.1
ESTIMATED POPUJLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                51.0         38.0      28.0                    22.1
RURAL                               49.0          45.0      45.0                    30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for L960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1976; /e 1977; If 1975; _/  Consumption expenditures of households.
May, 1982



- 25--                                                      ANNEX I
______________________                                              Page    3   of   6
Not..;  Altbaceb  lk. dte are drrie  I---  aete    ..eerolly Judgod the met authnlitetil. 004  elae,it th-Id ale. be  -tod thet tbhp ap  nt be inter-
_lee-oeoly  cwr b          -.ba .i of the look of  -teaadioe4 deinlti-rn  ori  -o-pte ned by different  -oitrier  I0 coloithtb  dote.  The date  -e  ton-_
thridri.. useful to doecoile o-der  of agltode. iodit.t. t-ed., arid obrotro  or                 -e eo  dlffreesbeterenconit
The roeett froope  r  (Igheenconr                     tooa  of obh          --jc  ooty aed f2f..1 a P. .tn  St...  etCh eeohet teher  veag  bo    th- the lct"ot  grop
oftheebetcotyCoept   for "lbl m'011I uotes  gop ohreMiddle Ineom  hlorth Afri.a an  Middle fet-" J.  hbet   betene  of eot
oooio-ol-oolaflltoe.It the refer-e  group data toe a-a., are poplation weIshtod etlthitit  -ne for each iodlotol  ,  shee  otly el-
_ajonIty, of oh  -oorleoin Ie fro   bee dec- for clt l  edto--   Sidc. the covrag  of                           -aortoO..   the  eotr  dopan.de onth    -ielobility of data
aod4 is to  oifor,  colo  met he eoeroitd 10 rlatiexvese  ofoedi                      leo  to asoth-   Th.a-oroa  oroony uefa  incoP-nieg the  -ada  of
onetdi-et- at a eta  smo   the  -otr   04rfrec    ruo
ARi.A Ithour..od  qoke.,)Peutir   t   antlMd-ttd   f ,odrrd-Palin(oa,
TotaI -Ttl.  tofae onto conCl.    04 area  -   i0I.4l rdoeet  1979 doto..obr.ai   'rl  divided by' theIrepec- etoe   fhsIa  nde
gliort-olac     - tEtlmto  of agiullared.  are - oee.d ... Pr-ily or PereeeelIY                    etili  I         b poill td pol-otS ..nta -1 d epoo.1li..d hoepito1 endn-
fotr-   e   -etee.  ela  dod kitohe  fonde.. or to Iio f.llow; 1979 dote.                       bebilitetioonte.    oeia  oeetabihtt  e oetyeafd
by a  bee  oephyetoiaH..  neellhenaperdn  putb -l  ce
GIP PER CAPITA (di) - GM? per ca-ita  -admeea  crrrt erken pri .e. .. -                              dialcoeri   e _tI       Widodd   toned1 hoptle   oeoi.foi    hoeIlt
cudoted by tee.  -oer-eCo   -..I0 ea World Soak AtlC  (197841 basief; 1960,                        od    Celtnreon etntdy tffdeyaPhytlO(beI b
197, ad 180 da teaicdentat.toe,rdtfo,  tno.)                                                                                                       ihi  offer In-Patie .....     -
detiOri 04 P-oide a IeLted rang.1 of  di-l fl           Ine . Frette
ENEtGY COtNSUMPTION Pft CAPITA -  ooalonseplo    f --merld  ...engy (coed                            Cited poeftoto  arbe  hoeplnels iloded  WHO. plrtotpeI/ta-rel heepitele.
arIdlnt. porroen.oaora Io  and- hydro-. tuoee  eO  goothenea  I1c-                                 tod r Ie hopitd. lon rneoI hoapitalr  dod ad ca  and  --erIty
tncly   in oloede    f cool e..loa_o_  pen coptt             6 (b. 1970, anal 1979                 cOite    p..iclle    Iopiee   r  lldrid otly ond-rtote.
dat.-                                                                                                  I.e.e.noe  fto.tnito  Md - TotalI  -ote  of adel.aoi..  to or diechongee
(rehoePitele divided by the tote, of b.de.
POPTLATION 0MD VITAL STATISTICS
T-t;  onlolc.Mid-Yeart.... Coaod.) -aof July d; 1960. 1970. and 1980                          101110
data.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~A..r... St.e of Maeeheld Coeo  rer houoh.1d) - total1, ilbt.eo   -orel
Urba- yea           p--o     ccttf  oal-l - gatlo of cr80  to total POP.1.lan                      A  oio.dceii   f n gro,  ofidividaude obo eh.,  Lon    uatr
differentIOoflitionf        -hort   yefct                  -rbillty of dat                       sdtheraoml.Abedro   agr   yonm tt clciddn
amg   ouino ; b.:f 197,ad1    date                                                     the boo.eehedd foreaiefe  ponyo....
Populaton yrotttiaaeAneAe,                                                             erfn    Pre   o  roo-toal  oa. 0d rurti  -avree   ut
Ponulcior ft  oat 000    Curent  opoltdoePrJnoti.ee or  boe  on. d 1980             6ibt~i~iio                 toedohoi  o  rolocPied ...te-loeel1
toalpopultion by ogo arid eec 004 their   l ariudy et  fertily ntee.                     deitm . reutively.  Weelii.o  neclad   o-ertn    tocee 
Pnojctoepe_ _er  for _lttlity  _-te   coul f three Ie.-Ie ..- eP,.  ouopl  pet..
do  lteope  0007 en l hlntt inonco g oit  conty'  pe  capi  ItatttS                         Act  to Odotnlty  rntt              f  ollon   totd, rIn.t..onl   -
laool.and fmle dfonircoy  tuhidlto  ai: 77.0 yea.    h   ue                               oieeold-1elltf I00th ectniOly1   li~qutr   epretg
ferl it    codit   toic                  .Alre   6  P-er  fonily pld-etee yorfredo..
fact c-uotry Ie then tetoie,d os f th,te tide c-edei-n  of mrt-dlty                       (DUCATIOMi
th, ninth rate ia oq-ltot_he deoth rots, 00d aIr  th.  g   toto   o                              eno   tue   of all  g t a  the,F ntryloeoaprnarIefr-.Pe.l
_ilca co..tant.  711  Ce        -dno  oudly aftet fotiliy -nane  dodlea noynaay echio-ofo9  Populotoo   iorol   lndde  011 dreld     .d 6-11
tho  -ril-cmv  lovedIof uott  -e  -oy-doondo   t.nn. oh..  ..hgceein                                r  but adb_otrd for dIfferen  iongnhc of pliry  aato;for
of  _cf   cedace  itrielf ri.aoly.  The  taoty   oltoroe  0                                      crileetih -tdtre- od-            ato  riiol yri   a  recad 100 tercent. 
Iette  0ra  oi  of the.  yrjoit  caetetic                 f C~ haypoou                      tc         Po..Poile err bedn or ubo- the offIial echol ago.
Co the neon  00M, arid cth  nate vf doodIa of fertiLly rena Ca rePIdote-                     Soodyehoed - tote,  ale and freole   CoeyP-daIohbne;e.,,,tduty
_onlce.dct io  rorrea   L..rIc f-ur years of oppno-o  yrtoryI..trotiot;
fn-nt-etdctey porolatiQe ia reached - Th. y-a  the  etatiro-y p.pudatiat                           yP-odee &-arL,   . oatlon.d.  or  teach- er  ra1019  cenoc  Iee  o  pePId
otao otlI to  ooched.                                                   u_ualy of 12 t  17 yeore of coo;gc..eodorcera   oe                  -eaoly
For to.  4a     id-yoI  poula panye  eqdu...lene   (110 h.-n-r.) Cf                           Itatotd   nrlln                        .. 2trot o   aiedry) - vO..tllt-l 1-eitondoit.
-oodara  1910. 1970 and 1979 dato.                                                             Inolde hE.hooe   Indutiolr.'lon oher 'prots   hlth oPerate  td.Pmd-
Pen to.An. ari tctol a!  nd - Coupeod ceobov- fo   .roni-ulo-1 land                        e-tlyone  dePrr--t  of  -eodar   eoiotoe
00101 1960  1970 004  971 dota.P-LI-l-Cah-  -etl   _2rnt-y, -0drctdn    rota1 e-doote enrlld L.
.d..aionAg  itocor  CyRmot .. - Children  (0-lb  .ere...   orig-       (15-               ynlmry arid eod          loel  dtivdd  hby Otere ofLrace.ir the
64  er)  sid  etrd 160 onn  sod  -ro)  tepeoa    gee of etd-yt.r pepa-crtyodglel.
Latlon; 1960. 1970. ord 1900 dota.                                                            OduIllt.ltray ret (- .. Lerert        t - lttnteaauInc  Cable to roe  04  or itl)
"Porlt'lo  Growh Soto (tcorcol) - total -   -ua  groWth rate  of toted ad-                         teP_-oetu     of tet1 edalt yoyoIctiat aged 15 y-ar  andovr
yea IoNubalo f-  I     95-6   16-7,  n  1'970-e..
Catio.. for 1950-60. 1960-70, aed 1970-80.                                                    P'aa...ger Car  Co-  thoue-d  -drlutlte) -Peeie   uec..Piee   -.t
diode  Irth  are (pr nlaaavo9- ooa'.-  diIa tircha per 1100.4- o7  dd-yoa-                core erlog bee. thoorIhtper....; .002.d..  alaee   hoar,a  .du
yOyoIOt_OO   1960,1970. a-d 1000 daa                                                            elta    vhicle.
Crodo loath late (pen th....ed) - Oaiaal1 deetha yen tho..a..   o f nod-yea                      0041. Re...l-en  C per thoonod  .Popua-il-   III typro ofneolrie  o   -aIo
pou     lt   960  170. ard 1980 data.                                                     braceeooeo    eltprtonn   fPapdto;ntae 
Orveedaorooctio  dataoverse tutr efdtoglt-ree.o..    e Ill hear I0                     llenedt       trr   tri  oannie  and to  oar  oonoi                tof  .edi.
d1ily ra -.1euiy ffrryo  aroIo rdo    o160   970  ood 1980.                                     ous.-toolouOod.11hd fo-acetgf
of htnth--ot-tI d.vi...  eden auopicoe of vt lfoly pil... Id  pn-r-                              genra  public  e  th utod yPadatloo  aocdadeeri.,  oee   I"  -ci,rine
F..ell  Plonei.1-Cer U..       cant d  ecnin    _mC-          oetgao         Inte                  In  __ _tte  ond 10I er  abor   elnato    fT  eeta                C  efft..
oust of chid-herb           aet5-Aycrlot  we bIroh-cottol  device. to                          '-"t,P"o  Circla ton'(e  tho....td  eania              S- ioi  lb. aveg  Ai-
011 earned rome 10 eon ate group.                                       colotioeo   da:iy general InLIr--t vetypert", driinaeyiinle
publlc-tior  dented pntimly Co --tnulg genr..            oee   It lttieo
FOOD ANfD NUTRITION                                                                                  to he "daily" if it ap     lr Lt bot four tieL-'          ek
red.. of Food Prodocmo  den Ca-i- (1969-71.100) - Indee. _1prcpita  -tIw                         Cloa   A ... l Attendanc  ocr CaPita en Tea  - Mated orkthe .-im- of
?roduotton of all100 f.     _ditlee.  P ...eIiotiot oelda. sea'd und foed urd                    t kAne. eu1d d-Ing  t!he on-. Includingadlsioeto drv- 10 ci-em
Is  .0 calnd.   .eo  hei    CiCio  cover.  pirtmy goode C"..g.  ...i..ri                        ned -bOIa  -01C.
toe are eric deded).  leonneeto prOdentioo of 0mb co!:h..untr  10. hate.d unLAJR P08CM
totlotdoog    rour   nt   elhe    915  1970. -.  1980 data.                                   Total L..en  Forc  CtLh-eod8  - U...oed-oly 00Cm- p-nt-   lacludiot
emceylitd roPly ofclois   or.oo            .ei iremnt) - Couputed true                           --ed footad  -.epL.yed hot.. rocldIt  hooeeeivo..e.            airi   t.
enegy e-qultaloe  of iet food -upylltaalal   nooor.e  capia                                    cvetIng lpopltlr f aLl ag..  Defiollidon   10 vari...  -onnie  art
P_r day.  Aveilabde oopilir  coepliee d-meic. prPc.n eti  le                                      ocwrha   190   97                 98   ae
rtyo-n. ancane  it -too.  tee topplittenodudo  .040.  fon,d, seed.,                             Peal. (lroe) - Feu   10000 forte.a .Per.eta. o.            f toted  lber force
'tctiCe  owed Ia food Procetee. aed I.-n  1  dte-ibutloo    RoquiAr-                         uninlt..t (Piet -- Ltalo  for-  iL. rerg   forotty. hanig sod
...eoaea. tine   by 'All  hoerd     phyeia goa   oade for nom-            aci                     fJiebiu  ae penet_tes of  ol ...I hor. forte ; '960, 1970 and 1989 deta.
ot    dheth  oederltgeo trnanlbtaeair. bdy veiubt,  at.lduetny yorei)-bu   f nti                                                  edirg  cretetir.  etfutne
a-   owdertoio  fypolettoo. 004  Itol:7e 10 peroont for  det   n04elonot,eao   r   u  a   eono    fttddlorfre
ooiioh.ld 10-1; 1960-65. 197  sd177 fo.1060. 1970 end 1980 den..
OFt -can ICe Panly ofUpoedCnnprdy) - Protir ...ri..et of p-r  -pita                              ori  .ono  tae...          Ln)-tto,nlr.ad f.mla - P-netipatiow  o
flrt oppl  offoo .ye  day.  Set eepply1 of food 10 defined .t abov.-   Ma-                 uoiiyntarcotddatnl                            .ad   fonal  doblo  forte 
qotrset_foral   outn, oritalhabd hr 0880 pronido for  Iiniim   I                                   rcdnnago of total. olo and Cotedo poultion ofal  notreotcey
aloacr   f '60loI.ofttdproteiI per day od 20 gas. of enia 00                              1960, 19,70, andl10daa    Theno. ann beand 00  ile aOf            ptiinoe
7udee  Inouc   f och 10 gras  h,,ed he oieed protnto.  Th.Irt rited                              .el igg-a.t...             urtIf ole  .Polainadlngtmre. 
unde ar  loe- Io  thee. of 71 grot  of  ote  pronei  004  3 goca of                             fow oatieetaa  e   fre   maCload riournt.
atladprool  at       lav .ge for cc. nov1, proponod by Cud In rho Third                       fool   etD-aEov latin- fatlo of-ppdtaada  10 a-  60 arid o
0                           Oordd Food Ocroey; 1961~~~~~~~~~~~-65. 1979 004 1977 dato.                                       to do. toallao  foc.
y.en CsPitu protein  -PPIy true.i- a      -lel on   yl-plontol  uPpyly of food d-
noe   ro   0m    00  Polie1   rm  e   a;1615, 1970 .04 1977 dotO.                  INCOMEf DIITRIMUTIOK
Child Catet I-oCSohtaeCocuadC -                            Io,aa  Sothe per th-uco  Co           P--c ..tr of Plfo-to  1ac.- Choth io o-h and tid) - Rtocin-d byncot
ago group C.yrar. to  hildd-a  10 thi, age gron,  otmt efIrleooa                                 S Penc..e. otohoat 20 renr-. Foo-... 0 yen_not. ad poo--  40ynet
rtac. data d-i-od I,roe lIfe taldn; 1960. 1970 and 1980 det..                                   of h.... hldt.
XAfT.b.Id                                                                                        P OVEtTy 74101T fboO'PS
Ltfe EOnrct..  ya  0I-hI'Ynae-boel    ooao   f  ourt of life   oloc                             'h, 11-0100 orite tIo a.n ooyamo  et  men,ofynyy  er
lofotNotoloMatocyr'th_oadC  - Ouoo  Oe-ha of .l.etod.                                    E.tarian acd Abedd1t  Poverty boon      -oe  CUSS pen canCt.) -cin04cl 
of age yon chut-d 1100 blttle; 1960, 1970 and 1960 dota.                                         Atoocuto yo--ity iboa :I~.h                 - Iro  .t.ot.no     Ioe  babe 0h1h 0 edit-l
Accent to 00 f Oacn I--.. teco  of yorplat- nf-toto   -ob, and r-al-   Neu-                       cortool    daq Poade   laOenlltr-fond  ndoeneIa tot
Io-o -PoPlo  .01   ra,  n  rorall  roth                 1tt neoobdocotoeo                         ood
eae.   opyColueitolden 05otr   runrae   o   noootue                                             oltrdtlot   oe_ybobnd    1   o   aia     -ro   o   uo 
oacesecaotac   ootpooecld borihlus  oyltg. ad soltay nlla  a,  Rurl rlotce prony Ccomlovd I  or-n hnd  f oerde pr cylt
ponc-otg. re0  o.le   P.-optioOpoolcn . deora nuyolcPen.o-e  oocoa of th.  oty    Irtan  love  t.i de fed                                                        -o  the core
:o-onaloon  tondyont locotd do  noer ho  'O oee               Treh.oe   ma  lCoe  eltI  dj--one  for deter cot of100010ote   rea
.Iccnas 10 focreno liencual uortcoo- 0 cocolatoPot-l-  (Tob-_u                                                       I .orb.)0h04      .br.lu-
hlmno  yod   cto.000          .adcrl  sade  hy . oacot f-opoaa  ari
fteioeyCio    plt   e.           octaOetonccooo
nonuaruo yn yhslcao-Po,pa.oIot dioid.u by d-b- of pooiln    hyai-                                                               Eouost  004d  Socialot  Oto~l-l
Alon  qoelifind ifc. a-odnoel -chool  at   lo.e.t  level.-.                                                                     Icnod  ocudyal  .00 ProJ-Ciote  Oro-tee
"Ioatd  per Seraid  Persan- P"opu.IenIo  diniOd hyubropoteidY0 1992



- 26 -
Population        20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                                          ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                                                    Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                       Annual Growth Rates (%)
current prices)                          Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                        1980                  1977   1978   1979   1980   1981e/                1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17820                     6.0    2.2    4.8    3.6   -1.3                   4.0      5.1      4.5     4.3
Agriculture                 3229                -12.3   18.0   -1.7    6.2  -23.0                    7.0      9.6     3.1      2.5
Industry                    5752                  8.0   -0.9    7.7   -2.5   -0.5                    3.7     4.6      5.4      5.1
Services                    7762                  8.5    4.0    5.1    6.4    3.4                    3.7     4.3      4.3      4.3
Consumption                    15770                  5.3    4.2    5.8    2.5    2.2                   1.3      4.2      3.5     3.6
Gross investment               4025                  15.6  -25.9    1.3   -7.3   -3.6                   6.5    -1.1       3.7     3.2
Exports of GNFS                 3273                 10.3    3.3    0.9-   3.7    3.5                   4.5      7.0      6.3     5.3
Imports of GNFS                5247                 14.5  -17.4    3.3   -9.8   10.7                   -1.9    -0.6      2.2      2.3
Gross national savings         2606                   1.5  -15.4    3.2    6.0  -20.6                   9.5    15.6    13.2       1.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (19t9 = 100)          .               172.0  186.5  200.2  218.4  241.2
Exchange rate (US$ per DO)         .                 .222   .240   .256   .254   .193
Share of GDP at Market Prices CE)                             Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)d/                        (at constant 1969 prices)   (at constant 1980 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                 1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                              4.0        4.6        5.1        3.7        5.1
Agriculture b/          29.1   19.2   17.9   18.1   17.1  15.1                   3.5       -2.1        3.8        2.5        2.5
Industry b/             23.5   27.2   35.2   32.3   34.9  35.8                   4.7        7.1        4.2        3.9        5.5
Services b/             47.4   53.6   46.9   49.6   47.9  49.1                   4.1        5.5        5.9        4.0        5.5
Consumption                89.2   85.5   85.5   88.5   87.7  84.0                   4.1        4.8        5.8        3.0        4.2
Gross investment           10.3   18.5   25.4   22.6   20.0  20.0                   8.0        9.3       -2.8        2.0        5.1
Exports GNFS               27.4   17.6   22.5   18.4   20.5  22.7                   1.3        2.1        4.9        5.5        7.1
Imports GNFS               26.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   28.7  26.7                   3.5        8.1        0.5        1.7        4.0
Gross national savings   11.0   14.8   19.3   14.6   14.5  17.9                     3.5       15.3       -4.4        3.0       10.0
As % of GDP
1960      1970        1975      1980        1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                  16.5       16.1       23.3       21.6       23.3
Current expenditures                              15.6       14.5       20.2       21.8       24.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                         0.9        1.6        3.1       -0.2       -1.4
Capital expenditure                                3.8        5.7       12.2       12.4       12.6
Foreign financing                                    ..       1.3        3.7        5.6        9.3
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                      4.0        6.0        5.2         3.4       5.1
GNP per capita growth rate (%)           1.6        3.1        1.8       -0.1        2.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)    3.8           6.7        5.6        4.3        5.0
ICOR                                     3.09       3.0        4.1        6.2        3.9
Marginai savings rate                     0.10       0.38     -0.15        0.27       0.28
Import elasticityc/                      0.95        1.84      0.13       0.95       0.78
a/ At market prices.
bf Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
ci Goods only.
d/ Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
e/ Estimates.
T/ 1977-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-85 at 1980 prices.
January 27, 1983
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B P.1



- 27-
Population      :20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                          ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                                   Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator             (million US$ at                                 Annual Growth Rates (%)/
current prices)                    Actual                                       Projected
1980          1975   1977   1978   1979   1980           1981-    1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Me-rchandi~se exports (FOB)        2414        -21.9   10.7    5.3        1.8     5.1        1.0       4.0      7.8    6.7      5.1
Primary products                1823       -25.2      7.7    5.4    0.0        5.8      -8.1        1.2     3.4     3.8     3.5
Phosphate rock               765       -29.9      9.6     9.6      3.2     7.4      -5.4        0.0     3.0      5.0    4.0
Others                       939        -22.3     6.5      2.8   -1.7    14.7    -10.0          2.1    3.7    2.9        3.1
Intermediate & manufactures 591             -1.4   23.8    -5.0       7.1      2.8      27.4        9.8   16.3   11.8       7.6
Merchandise imports (CIF)          4283         21.2    14.4  -19.9       6.6   -7.1         9.3      -1.9    0.5       3.9    4.0
Food                             720        37.8    0.4       8.6     2.2      3.4      32.5    -16.8   -0.9        2.1    4.5
Petroleum                      1006         12.8      8.7   11.0   12.1  -11.9          10.8        0.0   -1.1      3.3    3.2
Machinery, and equipment         805        51.7   26.7  -44.3   -3.2  -19.8             7.5        3.0   -2.5    4.0       2.9
Others                          1752         4.0    13.0  -15.1    12.5   -5.2          -0.3        2.6     3.7    5.0    4.8
PRICES (1980 = 100)
Export price index                    .         89.9   68.4   69.7   83.5  100.0          123.3      125.1  137.1  153.5  171.8
Import price index                   .          64.1   67.9   73.0   79.2  100.0          122.3      130.9  140.2  154.3  169.8
Terms of trade index                  .        140.3  100.7   95.5  105.4  100.0          100.8       95.6   97.8   99.5  101.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%                             Average Annual Increase (%
(at current prices)                         (Constant 1969 prices)    (Constant 1980 prices)
1960     1970    1975   1980   1985   1990           1960-70  1970-75    1975-80   1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                                                                 2.0      -1.2         6.6         5.2         7.6
Primary products            89.5     89.4   86.9    74.4   60.5   49.1               ..      -2.7         5.3        1.3         3.3
Intermediates & manu-   10.5         10.6   12.9   25.6   39.5   50.9                ..       8.1       12.1        14.0        13.0
factures
Imports                                                                                 4.0       9.1         0.7         2.4         4.0
Food                        27.3     16.9   25.0   16.9    16.9    15.5             ..       14.0         3.0        0.7         2.4
Petroleum                    7.4       5.5    10.8   23.6   23.6   22.4             ..        9.6         5.3        2.4         2.8
Machinery and equipment  6.7         24.1   24.0    18.9    18.7   19.2              ..      12.8       -7.0         2.4         4.5
Others            .         58.6     53.5   40.2   40.6   40.7   42.9                ..       5.5         2.9        3.3         5.1
Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with                Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%             Developing Countries CR           Capital Surplus Oil Exporters  MR
1960       1970        1980         1960        1970        1980      1960             1970             1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                           72.3        73.7        76.5        27.7        25.4        21.6         ..0.9                            1.9
Imports                           76.7        74.9       72.9         23.3        25.1         8.3          .               .18.8
1/ 1975-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-1985 at 1980 prices                                                         September 22, 1982
EENMA C? 11-B
ID 0180B p.2



- 28 -
Population         20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                                           ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                                                       Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS at current prices)
Indicator                                                     Actual                                                 Projected
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981         1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services               2288      2486      2955      3694      4364      4132          4087    4669    5401    6193   11297
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            1245      1283      1488      1938      2414      2283          2180    2575    3077    3618    7163
Imports of goods and services               3691      4364      4353      5268      5912      6095          5780    6276    6930    7734   12812
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b._/          2305      2820      2628      3245      3770      3840          4054    4365    4994    5714    9856
Net current tranfers                          47        52        50         44       128       102            -        -        -        -        -
Current account balance                    -1355    -1826    -1348    -1530    -1420    -1861              -1692   -1607   -1529   -1541   -1515
Special grants                               435       360       260       420       314        313           84      197      320      150      232
Current account balance after grants    -920    -1466    -1088    -1110    -1106    -1548                  -1609   -1410   -1209   -1391   -1283
Private capital                               38        53        45         37        88        68           76       85       96      106      171
MLT loans (net)                              838      1338      1109        946       971      1205         1071    1425    1371    1666    1359
Official                                   ..        ..        ..        ..        ..      1315           994      736      878      982    1092
Private                                    ..        ..        ..        ..        ..      -110            77      689      493      684      267
Other capital                                 28        68       -73         73     -200         17           ..       ..
Monetary movements!/                           16         6         8        53       247       258          462    -100    -258    -381    -263
International reserves                       548       609       772       917       814       508           470      543      653      787    1635
Of which:  Gold                            82       104       154       360       415       278           278      278      278     278      278
Reserves as months imports                   1.8       1.7       2.1       2.1        1.7       1.0          1.0      1.0      1.1      1.2      1.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DET c/
Gross disbursements                          725      1787      1182      1405      1567       1807
Concessional loans                        111       636       325       293       750      1089
DAC                                     63       109        91        76        96       138
OPEC                                    41       507       189       168       584       837
IDA                                      4         3         -         -         1         2
Other                                    3        16        45        49        69       112
Non-concessional loans                    614      1151       859      1113       818       718
Official export credits                 22        27         2         2        12       128
IBRD                                    59        68        72       137        64       129
Other multilateral                       2         6        53         7        13        86
Private                                531      1050       732       967       729       375
Suppliers credits                   10       171         10         8        16         6
Financial credits and bonds        521       879       722        957       713       368
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           2330      4069      5123      6182      7097      8381
Official                              1250      1975      2456      2833      3482      4865
Private                               1080      2094      2667      3349      3615      3515
Undisbursed debt                          801      1024      2280      2337      2058      2901
Debt service
Total service payments                    162       264       547       798      1191      1340
Interest                                66       148       252       410       618       738
Payments as Z exports of G+S d/           7.2      10.7      18.7      21.8      27.0      31.3
Average interest rate on new loans (I)           7.7       6.8       7.0       8.2       8.1       8.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)           11.7      13.1      13.2      15.9      13.7       8.0
As % of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                             47.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                             88.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                             7.3
a/ c.i.f. for projected years.
b/ Projected values include IMF credits.
c/ Years 1976-80 from IBRD External Debt Reporting System, 1981 from the SOP statistics.  There are sizeable discrepancies in some years
between the external capital and debt service flows reported under the IBRD Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of
payments statistics shown in the upper part of this table.
d/ Excluding debt service on IMF loans.
January 27, 1983
EMENA CP 11-B
ID 0180B p.3



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 28, 1983) _/
Loan or                                                                          USS Million
Credit                                                                Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year      Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
Twenty-six Loans Fully disbursed                                      672.6
Four Credits Fully disbursed                                                      36.0
1018           1974      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             32.0                    7.8
555            1975      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                        14.0        10.2
1220-T         1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Education               25.0                   12.3
1416           1977      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             41.0                   27.6
1428           1977      BNDE                    DFC                   35.6                    1.8
S-7           1977      Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering              1.5                    0.4
1528           1978      Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                       13.4
1602           1978      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             65.0                   57.7
1681           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Education              113.0                  103.1
1687           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               25.0                   11.9
1695           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   42.0                   41.0
1704           1979      CNCA                    Agriculture           70.0                   21.7
1724           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            49.0                   22.8
1757           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             58.0                   47.3
S-18           1980      BRPM                    Oil Exploration       50.0                   16.9
1830           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                 62.0                   40.6
1848           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             34.0                   31.7
1943           1981      CIH                     Tourism              100.0                   61.4
1944           1981      Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                       34.2
2006           1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            87.0                   85.3
2037           1982      BNDE                    DFC                   70.0                   67.8
2038           1982      Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               70.0                   70.0
2082           1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             29.0                   29.0
2109           1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                   9.5                    9.5
2110           1982      Kingdom of Morcco       Forestry              27.5                   27.1
2114           1982      ONAREP                  Oil Shale             20.0                   20.0
21491/         1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Education V             50.0                   50.0
22171/         1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             30.0                   30.0
Total                                                           1922.7      50.0       952.5
of which has been repaid                                      256.0        1.3
Total now outstanding                                          1666.7       48.7
Amount Sold                                 20.1
of which has been repaid                  17.7                  2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  1664.3      48.7
Total undisbursed                                                942.3       10.2      952.5
NOTE
a! Does not include the Housing Development Project, loan of $60 million, approved
March 15, 1983; the Fourth Highway Project, Loan of $85 million approved March 29, 1983;
and the Small-and-Medium Irrigation Project, Loan of $42 million, approved March 29, 1983.
1/ Not effective as of March 31, 1982.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 28, 1983)
US$ Million
Loan     Equity   Total
1962/1978           BNDE                         Development Bank           -        2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                          Canning Factory           0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement             Cement Factory             -        1.3       1.3
1977/1980           Temara Cement                Cement Factory            4.7       3.6       8.3
1979                Agadir Cement *              Cement Factory           12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                SOMIFER                      Copper Mining            13.0       2.3      15.3
1981/1983           Casablanca Cement            Cement Factory           15.8      -2.1      17.9
Total Gross Commitments                                               46.9      14.7      61.6
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales           16.5      3.5      20.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                                     30.4      11.2     41.6
Total Undisbursed                                                     11.6       0.3     11.9
* Agadir Cement has been cancelled.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 19831/
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum. Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and civil works
(roads, destoning and irrigation rehabilitation) have been started in the
remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected, mainly because
project implementation has proven more complex than anticipated, which has
been aggravated by project management problems. However, the first results of
the completed components are promising. Because of the initial delay and the
complexity in implementation, the original closing date was extended by three
years.
Ln. No. 1220-T      Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1976; Closing
Date: September 1, 1983.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agricultural extension, health and tourism. After an initial
two-year delay, construction under the education and agriculture components is
largely completed and funds are committed for the equipment and technical
assistance components, but lengthy delays have been experienced in the
implementation of the health and tourism components, for which a portion of
the funds have been reallocated to the education components.
Ln. No. 1416        Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$4l.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco in 1980-81 which caused a delay of about
two years. Project implementation has resumed vigorously under excellent
project management.
Ln. No. S-7         Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a first phase project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation was delayed by about 15
months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1528        Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. After initial delays, project
implementation has recently improved significantly. Infrastructure works are
under way and housing improvement loans are being made. Relocation to sites
and services areas is under progress and some enterprises have started
operation in the industrial zone. Disbursements, however, remain low and the
matter is under review with the Government. An extension of the closing date
is under consideration.
Ln. No. 1602        Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living-of about
33,900 farm families in the Fes-Karia-Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to
the growth of agricultural production and to a reduction in Moroccan
dependence on imported food commodities. These aims would be achieved through
a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension and soil
conservation services, training, the provision of credit and infrastructure.
Although somewhat delayed, implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily,
due to excellent project management.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1681        Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation was initially delayed; however, most major contracts have now
been signed and disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Ln. No. 1687        Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US$25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a Government program to assist
small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The loan is fully committed, and earlier disbursement
delays are being remedied subsequent to the recent introduction of simplified
administrative procedures.
Ln. No. 1695        Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in more than 200 villages throughout the country. Problems of
interministerial coordination and budgetary allocations delayed project
start-up for about one year. Orders have now been placed for most of the
equipment but no payments have yet been made. However, implementation is well
under way and the project is expected to be completed witb only a slight delay.
Ln. No. 1704        Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$700.  million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project covers most of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through mid-1983. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD and
the Federal Republic of Germany (through KfW). CNCA's on-lending as well as
repayments were severely affected by the 1980-1981 drought, slowing
disbursement of the Bank loan. Disbursements have, however, accelerated and
are expected to be completed by the closing date (including funds from
cofinancing sources).



- 33 -
ANNEX II
p. 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1724        Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness; February 4, 1980; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections. The project is now proceeding
satisfactorily and disbursements are expected to increase accordingly.
Ln. No. 1757        Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.
Ln. No. S-18        Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the Government's
petroleum exploration and development program. It has recently been
transferred from BRPM, the original Borrower, to the new petroleum development
agency, the Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres
(ONAREP). The project also provides technical assistance in prospect
evaluation, analysis of results of exploration, and exploration management.
Drilling so far has shown encouraging results, particularly as regards natural
gas prospects and has recently focused on appraising the Meskala gas
discovery. Procurement problems initially hampered project implementation but
the loan is now fully committed, Administrative problems (due to the loan
transfer) have also delayed disbursements.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
p. 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1830        Third Higbway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transport to improve transport
planning and to study road maintenance. The pavement strengthening and
maintenance activities are progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements have
lagged due to delays in payment of contractors as well as transmittal of
reimbursement requests to the Ministrv of Finance, but have recently
accelerated.
Ln. No. 1848        Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30,
1981; Closing Date; June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1943        Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date; December 31, 1985.
The project provides funds over a three year period to the Credit
Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing in the
tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It also
includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and training of
CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects. Commitments and
disbursements have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944        Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1981;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project consists of the provision of shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families through a program for slum upgrading,



- 35 -
ANNEX II
p. 7 of 8
sites and services and provision of serviced land for small-scale industries,
to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and Kenitra. Assistance is also
provided to strengthen the municipal services of the project cities.
Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient coordination through the
provincial Governors' offices, but some delays in approval of contracts by the
Ministry of Finance have occurred. Disbursements remain low due to
administrative problems, currently being examined by the Government.
Ln. No. 2006        Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project includes the construction of two regional water
supply systems and the expansion and upgrading of the water supply facilities
in about 32 small towns scattered throughout Morocco.  It would also provide
revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low income households,
equipment, technical assistance, training and studies. Project implementation
is progressing satisfactorily, although disbursements have lagged.
Ln. No. 2037        Ninth BNDE Project; US$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Date of effectiveness: November 2, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project includes a pilot component in the line of credit to BNDE,
to finance export-oriented industrial sub-projects. The project also focusses
on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of project
appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion. Effectiveness was
delayed due financial and to managerial problems, which have since been
remedied.
Ln. No. 2038        Second Small Scale Industry Project; US$70.0 million of
November 3, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: February 24, 1983.
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project comprises (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating to
the structure of incentives for SSIs.
Ln. No. 2082        Middle Atlas Agriculture Deveiopment Project:  USt29.0
million of March 5, 1982. Date of Effectiveness: November
30, 1982. Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The project consists of interrelated forestry, range and cropping
land development to bring about production increases of meat, milk, fodder,
cereals and wood, on about 600 ha. in central Morocco, as well as to raise
income and employment among the target population.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
p. 8 of 8
Loan No. 2109       Small-Scale Mining Project: US$9.5 million of April 14,
1982.  Date of Effectiveness:  November 19, 1982.   Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This pilot project would increase the productivity of small-scale
lead and zinc mining operations through provision of equipment and facilities,
as well as credit to miners, in a remote region of Morocco thus increasing
exports and raising rural incomes. The project would also strengthen the
financial, technical and administrative base of CADETAF, the implementing
agency, and finance studies as a basis for future expansion of mining
activities. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2110       Forestry Project: US$27.5 million of April 14, 1982.  Date
of Effectiveness: October 28, 1982. Closing date: June 30,
1988.
The project consists of destumping about 30,000 ha of eucalyptus
plantations and degraded oak and cork forests and replanting with eucalyptus,
pine and acacia; upgrading and construction of forest and access roads;
pasture improvemnent over 2,000 ha; and technical and institutional support.
Project implementation has commenced satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2114       Oil Shale Engineering Project: US$20.0 million of April 14,
1982. Date of Effectiveness: February 25, 1983. Closing
date: September 30, 1986.
The engineering project would finance studies and the construction of
a shale retorting test station to generate information and analysis on the
characteristics of Moroccan oil shale resources and on the technical and
economic viability of alternative options for their development. Project
implementation is proceeding slowly.
Loan No. 2149       Fifth Education Project: US$50.0 million of November 5,
1982. Not yet effective. Closing date: March 31, 1988.
The project is designed to improve the effectiveness of primary
education and support expanded science and mathematics teaching at the senior
secondary level, througb construction of four senior secondary teachers
training colleges, 40 rural primary schools and the provision of teaching aids
to about 700 primary schools and related technical assistance. Construction
of physical facilities is underway although there have been delays in defining
the terms of reference for the proposed technical assistance.



-  7-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project identification:                             December 1981
(b)  Time taken by the Borrower to prepare project:  10 months
(c)  Agency responsible for project preparation:         Office National de
Recherches et
d'Exploitations
Petrolieres.
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:               July 1982
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                     November 1982
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations                  March 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                       August 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
a) Drilling and seismic work programs would be reviewed by ONAREP and the Bank
every six months and not modified without the Bank's consent; disbursements
would only be made for specialized well services and seismic services on
the basis of agreed work programs (para. 50).
b) The detailed design of the pipeline and surface facilities for eventual gas
production would not be initiated unless sufficient deliverable reserves
are confirmed (para. 50).



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
c) The full team of expatriate staff for the task force for project
implementation would be in place by September 1, 1983 (para. 51).
d) ONAREP would submit to the Government the necessary documentation needed
for the Government to assess ONAREP's financing requirements and the
Government would agree to allocate and disburse funds so that ONAREP would
be able to carry out the project in a timely manner and to repay the
principal, interest and other charges on the Bank loan (paras. 54 and 55).
e) ONAREP would keep the Bank informed (i) on the status of well drilling and
testing; and (ii) on additional studies or exploration work in the
Essaouira Appraisal Area. ONAREP would exchange views with the Bank on
such activities and on any plans to develop the resources discovered or
appraised under the project (para. 58).
f) ONAREP would agree to complete an action plan to clarify all questions
regarding its assets and liabilities by December 31, 1983 (para. 59).
g) The Government and ONAREP would ensure that ONAREP maintained a quick ratio
of 1.0; the Government would agree not to convert any of its equity
contributions to ONAREP into debt without prior agreement from the Bank
(para. 60).



IBRD 1688CR
S : .   : :r ; i  i:942                                                 9 2W /  f920'                                                                                                            FEBRUARY 1983
MOROCCO
~~ /7 A N TI C                                        ~~~~~~~~PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
AND ESSAOUIRA APPRAISAL PROJECT
~~~C4VA/O/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ESSAOUIRA APPRAISAL AREA
~OTA-2
ONAREP Permit
~Oil Field
[01                                                                                                       ---')~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Gas Fields
EtS~~~~~~~~~~~O~~~~~~RA    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~                                                                                                 ~~Gais Wells
z                                                                                                                                                  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Dry Hole - Triassic Gas shows
0    Drilling
C)   Proposed Well Sites
M[SKAIA                                                                                                       o    Tentative Well Sites
/                                                 sri roo      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-MKL-102
7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1S,'MKLi5
7                                           MVL-iOh                                                  l\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Main Roadis
(                                                  [O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-UK/M T  0MKLt-103
'        K-21MKL-15
MKL104 iS                                . o- International Boundaries
roPeir~~~~~~~~~~~L~~~~ii3 ~~~~~Indicates the Territory of the former
-~~~~   -~~~~~    -~~~~~ ~Spanish Sahara (Western Sahara)
5        4    6   8   10
-dt,,5'                                                                                                                                                                                        4W 20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'0
TABO(ILAEA'T                                                                                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS
RHAIA/EM                 ZEL- ii0                                                                                                                           '5Elti"
The World Banks~ liaff olevo'
s,r th .... osne                                             o
reder -nds eecosvie  thr ir
. j,j' AL: fi i' ji' ,; " ;"'N' D liR ,'W', TH#'R. :t'''SE=S .SSy  v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.,                                                                                   A
itt45d7]>ef  1p if iLi] J ;i'0 3' 91 iP,;;g  /                                                                                           P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oETRdieOLsa,sorEUM    E POORATIONALOt
part Th, ft Wlid Bark a-d thed t         e
j.t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~s r,dren or th, iegs Siiu Np,$  L  ";   ?    T-
sorhesondanres ::j                               MAURITANIA    MALI
9 W4S'                                                                       9N20' ,0/'                                                                                             '          OP



I
I
I



~~~~JBRD~08  16879R1
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND ESSAOUIRA                                                                                                    I". N`   -/ ,0e8/
APPRAISAL PROJECT                                                                                                     88   8 t8 f8 ,8  
AREAS UNDER  JOINT  VENTURE/PROMOTION                                                                                    Yff8 /,                    A   'r
PETROLEUM   EXPLORATION   PRITM  X                                                                           &                         7            i    &j'       J
' .2,  _|         Un,det  Join  Vanta                                                           i           - --      A           F                        '     - .              I
Under,.  4nanrlha                                                                                            -F8 IE
2DD  Mater Isabatlt                                          :::::    ;:  G; 2 : : .CASAE LA8 rCASABLANCA-    e                       I 88N88            ,           I
National  Caprtal                                                                                  - T A        8T     8 D                          4
* - _ Internnatianoai 8Baacndaries                                           ''"C)                                       --- 8                        (01 .. i _;  ' r   (
,              ~~~~-  -    Inrti-ArioonlRoann8naarleappnaa,natal                                 8          8  9>;j      LsA      . F8IA r'S      S551ML *L  '~~ "'>U>' .
1  ;/ .'    8 /               88  'a8R8KEcH                                       8 8tnA L    ;847                                  32
K    .       ,$ S AOI I A . - fi  u  Q; h) t   i                                                                       F -I,
:~~~~~~~5                                                         " ;;    _ OUARZAZA  fGO
%2/ W Zi      l88038498t88                                                            A   L  G    E  R I A
C A N A R Y                        . -                     \ .                            j -  ,8
CANARY3                                                                   '                             7
SLANDS                            88/2                                  CN8Iioi,L         .     8s
887<0888<8.                                                                                     8 0 RFA\
-,-r'   -   -  - ' -    -   -   -  -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    - -  -                  8  8    8        8        8
2  88    I" I.888898088888                             ,8
LI 1-1~~~~~~~~~
M    A   U  R I TA  N   I A ~ ~ ~      ~      ~       8       ,       'iO   ' 8888888  898               -          ., L
8                             'N.                                                 it 0988898848880 8,888  8                8.988~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
IN0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      
'99                                                                  N~~~~~~~~~~~M                      
804 08>                                                          N                                                             80~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L



