             Document of
          The World Bank


                                  Report No:73118 -MX




      RESTRUCTURING PAPER

               ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                 OF

SUPPORT TO OPORTUNIDADES PROJECT

   ADDITIONAL FINANCING LOAN

      Approved November 9, 2010


              TO THE

     UNITED MEXICAN STATES


         September 26, 2012
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BANSEFI       National Savings and Financial Servings Bank (Banco de Ahorro
              Nacional y Servicios Financieros)
CONAFE        National Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de
              Fomento Educativo)
PEI           Initial Education Program (Programa Educación Inicial)
SEP           Public Education Ministry (Secretaria de Educación Pública)
TELECOMM      Mexican Post and Telegraph Office (Telecomunicaciones de Mexico)




            Regional Vice President:        Hasan A. Tuluy
                   Country Director:        Gloria M. Grandolini
           Sector Manager / Director:       Mansoora Rashid/Keith Hansen
                  Task Team Leader:         Theresa Jones




                                        2
             MEXICO SUPPORT TO OPORTUNIDADES PROJECT

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

This restructuring paper seeks the approval of the Country Director for Mexico to
introduce changes described below to the Mexico Support to Oportunidades Project
(P115067, Ln. 7968-MX). This would be a Level II restructuring. Three changes are
proposed to streamline the operational procedures for the Oportunidades Program, each
of which requires amending the Loan Agreement:
     First, the reference to the cash grant “energy support? (apoyo energetico) will be
       dropped because, effective January 2012, this cash grant has been consolidated
       into the nutrition grant;
     Second, the Program has consolidated the arrangements for paying Program
       participants under one financial institution, the Banco de Ahorro Nacional y
       Servicios Financieros, S.N.C. (BANSEFI), thereby eliminating the need for the
       agreements in place previously with two other financial institutions (DICONSA
       and Telecomunicaciones de Mexico); and
     Third, effective January 2012, resources for the education cash grants of the
       Oportunidades Program will be drawn from the budget of the Public Education
       Ministry (Secretaria de Educación Pública – SEP) instead of from the National
       Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo
       – CONAFE).

B. PROJECT STATUS

Project implementation is rated satisfactory in the latest Implementation Status Report.
The Additional Loan in the amount of US$1,250 billion for the Support to Oportunidades
Project was approved on November 9, 2010 and made effective on December 21, 2010.
To date, US$528 million, or nearly 42 percent of the loan proceeds, have been disbursed.
The Project Development Objectives are:
      Increase the health, nutrition and education of poor families through investments
         in human capital by promoting regular health and nutrition check-ups among
         Oportunidades beneficiaries, improving the health status of Oportunidades
         beneficiaries, and raising school enrollment and attendance rates of the children
         of Oportunidades beneficiaries; and
      Build sustainable connections between the Oportunidades Program and other
         social programs of the Borrower in order to improve health and education
         outcomes for the Oportunidades beneficiaries.

 The Project has two components. The first component is Support to the Continuation of
 the Oportunidades Program and the second component is Technical Assistance for
 Oportunidades.


                                            3
    As of December 2011, 5,827,318 families were participating in the Program, in line
    with Project targets. The Program has revised and published its revised Operating Rules
    for 2012. The new rules reflect some important improvements, including: (i) the
    definition of new criteria for the entry and exit of participant families; and (ii) revisions
    in the targeting instrument and in the recertification process, among others. Recent data
    on the share of families meeting the conditions relating to health visits and school
    attendance shows continued high rates of compliance. In addition, progress is being
    made on linking beneficiaries with tertiary scholarships and the non-contributory health
    insurance program (Seguro Popular). Under the technical assistance component, two
    major studies being supported by the Project, the National Survey of Health and
    Nutrition, and the impact evaluation for an early childhood development intervention
    (PEI-CONAFE), are currently in progress. Another study which would look at the
    education services being used by Oportunidades beneficiaries and student achievement
    will start soon. The Indigenous Peoples Plan has also been updated by the Program and
    submitted to the Bank.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

The proposed changes affect implementation, financial management and institutional
arrangements, as specified below, and require amending the Loan Agreement.

Implementation Arrangements. The cash grants payable to Oportunidades participants
are organized into a structure of several different benefits. The previous “energy
support? (apoyo energetico) was the smallest and was always linked to the same co-
responsibilities1 (relating to nutrition and health) as the nutrition grant. In order to
streamline the processing of both the verification information for co-responsibilities and
the payment of cash grants to the participants of the Program, effective January 2012, the
decision was taken to consolidate this grant with the nutrition cash grant, linked to the co-
responsibility related to health and nutrition. There are no substantive implications of
this change for Program participants.

Financial Management (FM). Two of the changes proposed imply slight modifications
in the project’s overall FM arrangements, but do not affect the FM risks assessed during
project preparation. The first relates to the agreements with Financial Institutions and the
second relates to the flow of budgetary funds to pay the education grants. The cash
grants payable to Oportunidades participants are delivered through arrangements with
Financial Institutions. Previously, the Program had agreements with three Financial
Institutions, Banco de Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financiero, S.N.C. (BANSEFI),
DICONSA, and Telecomunicaciones de Mexico (Telecomm). Reflecting the progress
which has been made in moving towards payments through the banking system and in
order to streamline the procedures associated with this activity, as of March 2012, the
Program has consolidated these arrangements under one Financial Institution, the Banco
De Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, S.N.C. (BANSEFI). The objective is to
improve efficiency, and avoid delays and possible errors in the transmission of
information.

1
 Co-responsibilities refer to the conditions related to visits to health centers and school attendance which
must be met in order for the family to receive the cash transfer from the Program.
                                                      4
The second change affects the flow of funds within the national budget for the resources
to pay the education cash grants. Previously, these funds were controlled by the Consejo
Nacional de Fomento Educativo (CONAFE). As of January 2012, as agreed between the
Ministry of Finance, CONAFE, and the Public Education Ministry (SEP), these funds are
controlled by SEP. This is only an internal Government procedural change, with no
substantive implications for the flow of funds or FM arrangements.

Institutional Arrangements. Starting in January 2012, the grants for education are
controlled by the SEP, the institution which leads the sector, and for that reason, SEP, not
CONAFE, will be the institution responsible for signing the amended contrato de
mandato. There are no substantive implications to this change, as the control of the
budget for the education grants remains under the responsibility of the education sector.




                                             5
