                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR2932



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IBRD-77080 IBRD-79680)



                                        ON

                                      LOANS

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1,503.76 MILLION

               AND US$1,250 MILLION OF ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                      TO THE

                            UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                       FOR A

                     SUPPORT TO OPORTUNIDADES PROJECT



                                    June 26, 2014




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 4, 2014)

                              Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                                  MXN 12.9= US$1.00

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 – December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGE        School Management Support Program (Apoyo a la Gestión Escolar)
BANSEFI    National Savings and Financial Services Bank
CCT        Conditional Cash Transfer
CN         National Coordination (Coordinación Nacional)
CONAFE     National Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo)
CONEVAL    National Council for Evaluation of Social Development Policy (Consejo
           Nacional de Evaluación de la Política de Desarrollo Social)
COP        Communities of Practice
CPC        Community Promotion Committees (Comites de Promoción Comunitaria)
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
DICONSA    Primary Commodity Supplier (Distribuidora Conasupo, S.A.)
ECD        Early Childhood Development
ENSANUT    National Health and Nutrition Survey
FM         Financial Management
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
IADB       Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction for International Development
IEG        Independent Evaluation Group
INALI      National Institute of Indigenous Languages
IPP        Indigenous Peoples Plan
MIC        Middle Income Countries
MIR        Program’s Results Matrix (Matriz de Indicadores para Resultados)
MIS        Management Information System
NAFIN      National Financing Agency (Nacional Financiera)
PAL        Food Program (Programa de Apoyo Alimentario)
PEC        Quality Schools Program (Programa Escuelas de Calidad)
PEI        Initial Education Program (Programa Educación Inicial)
PRONABES   National Scholarship Program for Higher Education
SEDESOL    Social Development Ministry (Secretaría de Desarrollo Social)
SEP        Public Education Ministry (Secretaria de Educación Pública)
SHCP       Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público)

                               Vice President: Jorge Familiar
                             Country Director: Gloria Grandolini
                              Sector Manager: Mansoora Rashid
                         Project Team Leader: Theresa Jones
                            ICR Team Leader: Francesca Lamanna
                                                     MEXICO
                                          Support to Oportunidades Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 33
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 35
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 53
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 54
  MAP




                                                                   i
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Support to Oportunidades
Country:                Mexico                   Project Name:
                                                                           Project
                                                                           IBRD-77080,IBRD-
Project ID:             P115067                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                           79680
ICR Date:               06/26/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:                 MEXICO
Original Total
                        USD 1,503.76M            Disbursed Amount:         USD 2,753.76M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 2,753.76M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: SEDESOL/Oportunidades National Coordination
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:         11/25/2008    Effectiveness:             09/01/2009           09/01/2009
                                                                                      07/13/2010
Appraisal:              02/23/2009    Restructuring(s):                               11/22/2011
                                                                                      10/08/2012
Approval:               04/09/2009    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2010           12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings              Borrower                      Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory    Government:                 Satisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:



                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                  Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                             Quality at Entry
                             No                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                           Quality of Supervision
                             No                                               None
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                          Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                     100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Social safety nets                                                          100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                           At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:              Jorge Familiar Calderon                 Pamela Cox
Country Director:            Gloria M. Grandolini                    Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:              Mansoora Rashid                         Helena G. Ribe
Project Team Leader:         Theresa Jones                           Theresa Jones
ICR Team Leader:             Francesca Lamanna
ICR Primary Author:          Sara Francesca Giannozzi


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed Project would support Mexico's conditional cash transfer (CCT) program,
Oportunidades, which serves slightly more than 5 million poor families. About 70 percent of
these families are in rural areas, 16 percent live in semi-urban areas, with the remaining 14
percent in urban areas. The principal Project Development Objectives are:
 -Increase capacities in health, nutrition and education of poor families through human capital
investment by promoting regular health check-ups, improving health status, and raising school
enrollment and attendance rates.
 -Build sustainable connections between Oportunidades and other social programs of the
Government of Mexico in order to improve health and education outcomes for Program
participants.


                                                      ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                   Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                                   Revised
                                                    approval                           Completion or
                                                                     Target Values
                                                   documents)                           Target Years
                  % of families complying with health conditions [by age (w. breakdown for pregnant
Indicator 1 :
                  women and children <5 and for indigenous and non-indigenous)]
                                               98.0%                96%
Value             98.0%
                                               Children <5: 99.1% (breakdown no
quantitative or   Children <5: 98.9%                                                96.39%
                                               Pregnant women: longer
Qualitative)      Pregnant women: 98.99%
                                               99%                  available)
Date achieved     12/30/2006                   12/31/2010           12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments          Achieved. In 2011, baseline was revised to 96.8% for 2007 for consistency with
(incl. %          Program's MIS data for that year, as documented via email, but not revised formally.
achievement)      Targets revised in AF to include only families, detailed breakdown no longer available.
Indicator 2 :     % of children complying with education conditions by age
                                                                    Primary: 98%
                                               Primary: 98.4%       Secondary:      Primary: 99.50%
Value             Primary: 98.0%
                                               Secondary: 94.7% 98.4%               Secondary: 99.49%
quantitative or   Secondary: 94.3%
                                               Upper Secondary: Upper               Upper Secondary:
Qualitative)      Upper Secondary: 95.6%
                                               97.3%                Secondary:      99.59%
                                                                    98.46%
Date achieved     12/30/2005                   12/31/2010           12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments          Surpassed. Target revised in AF to account for Project extension. High rates of
(incl. %          compliance due to the fact that compliance is only measured for enrolled children for
achievement)      whom compliance is verified.
                  % of students who transition from primary to lower secondary education
Indicator 3 :
                  **Defined as: Primary school Oportunidades students enrolled in next
                  level/Oportunidades students enrolled in last grade of primary in previous cycle
Value
quantitative or   82.3%                       85.36%               85.7%            90.06%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2006                  12/31/2010           12/31/2013       12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Surpassed. Target revised to 85.7 % in AF to account for extension in closing date.
achievement)
                  % of students who transition from lower to upper secondary school
Indicator 4 :
                  **Defined as: Oportunidades students enrolled in upper secondary/Oportunidades
                  students enrolled in last year of lower secondary in previous cycle
Value
quantitative or   55.82%                      56.93%               57.2%            68.94%
Qualitative)

                                                    iii
Date achieved     12/30/2006                   12/31/2010           12/31/2013       12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Surpassed. Target revised to 57.2% in AF to account for extension in closing date.
achievement)
                  Number (and %) of Oportunidades schools participating in the Programa Escuelas de
                  Calidad (PEC)
Indicator 5 :
                  **Defined as: Number of PEC-Oportunidades schools/number of Oportunidades
                  schools
Value
                  24,955                       30,824               40,000           28,944
quantitative or
                  23%                          24%                  22%              24.56%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2006                  12/31/2010             12/31/2013       12/31/2013
                  Achieved. Surpassing % target demonstrates improvement in targeting towards
Comments
                  Oportunidades beneficiaries. Thus the indicator is considered achieved even though
(incl. %
                  absolute number of schools falls short of target. Target revised in AF to account for
achievement)
                  extension.
                  Number (and %) of Oportunidades beneficiaries with PRONABES scholarships
Indicator 6 :
                  **Defined as: Number of Oportunidades beneficiaries with PRONABES
                  scholarships/Number of PRONABES scholarships
Value
                  36,941                                            90,000           68,181
quantitative or                                70,000
                  15.4%                                             20%              20.20 %
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2007                  12/31/2010              12/31/2013       12/31/2013
                  Achieved. Surpassing % target demonstrates improvements in targeting of
Comments
                  Oportunidades beneficiaries. Thus, indicator is considered achieved even though
(incl. %
                  absolute number of beneficiaries falls short of target. Target revised in AF to account
achievement)
                  for extension.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                   Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                              Revised Target
                                                     approval                            Completion or
                                                                          Values
                                                   documents)                             Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of municipalities, localities, families and children in Oportunidades
                  2,445 municipalities                                                2,451 municipalities
Value             95,819 localities,                                 Maintain at      109,852 localities
                                               Maintain at least at
(quantitative     5,049,206 families,                                least at current 5,922,246 families
                                               current level
or Qualitative)   7,222,855 children (age 0-                         level            12,402,864 children
                  19)                                                                 (age 0-19)
Date achieved     12/30/2008                   12/31/2010            12/31/2013       12/31/2013
Comments          Surpassed. Program revised in 2011 the baseline for children to 10,511,273 for 2008 as
(incl. %          reported by MIS. With this correction, the changes in coverage are consistent (873,040
achievement)      additional families and 1,891,591 additional children).
Indicator 2 :     Number of exits of participants, by type of exit
Value             45,011 exiting families      n/a                   DROPPED


                                                    iv
(quantitative     (23,266 exiting temporarily,
or Qualitative)   21,745 exiting permanently)
Date achieved     12/30/2008                    07/30/2010          10/06/2010
Comments          Dropped with AF. Indicator was meant to provide information regarding the quality of
(incl. %          the registry by monitoring how it was updated to reflect changes in family status.
achievement)      Indicator was considered too volatile as a measure of quality of registry management.
Indicator 3 :     Implementation of PEI-CONAFE pilot with indigenous and non-indigenous families
                  Pilot started. Proportion of                                        Pilot study completed
Value                                           Analyze results of
                  Oportunidades beneficiaries                                         in 2012 and analysis
(quantitative                                   pilot impact
                  participating in PEI-                                               of impact evaluation
or Qualitative)                                 evaluation
                  CONAFE identified                                                   completed June 2012
Date achieved     12/30/2008                    12/30/2013                            12/31/2012
Comments          Achieved. Findings suggest that adding PEI-CONAFE provides additional benefits to
(incl. %          the nutritional status and development of Oportunidades children. Based on pilot results
achievement)      the program is considering ECD as a key pillar of its redesign strategy.
Indicator 4 :     Implement madrinas pilot
Value             2 municipalities in
                                                30 municipalities
(quantitative     Guerrero, 438 pregnant                            DROPPED
                                                included
or Qualitative)   women
Date achieved     12/30/2008                    05/13/2009          10/06/2010
Comments
                  Dropped with AF. Budgetary difficulties experienced by the Ministry of Health
(incl. %
                  prevented implementing the pilot as originally planned and it was therefore dropped.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Implement AGE with Telesecundaria pilot
Value             Pilot started. Baseline     Act on                                 Pilot completed and
(quantitative     survey conducted in 250     recommendations of                     results of follow up
or Qualitative)   Community Committees        pilot evaluation.                      survey analyzed
Date achieved     12/30/2008                  12/30/2010                             12/31/2012
Comments          Mostly achieved. The pilot was implemented in a year in which many changes in the
(incl. %          Program's community committees occurred. Because the pilot's lack of results may be
achievement)      due to implementation challenges, the target is considered not fully achieved.
Indicator 6 :     Increase number of beneficiaries with Seguro Popular
                                              Increase proportion
Value             Identify proportion of      of Oportunidades
(quantitative     Oportunidades beneficiaries beneficiaries         DROPPED
or Qualitative)   enrolled in Seguro Popular enrolled in Seguro
                                              Popular by 20%
Date achieved     12/30/2008                  10/06/2010            10/06/2010
Comments
                  Dropped with AF. The indicator was incorporated into the WBG Mexico Social
(incl. %
                  Protection in Health Project and by 2013 had increased by 40 % points.
achievement)




                                                    v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                       Actual Disbursements
 No.                            DO                        IP
         Archived                                                          (USD millions)
  1     06/18/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     12/14/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 898.76
  3     06/28/2010          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                1498.77
  4     02/04/2011          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                1750.00
  5     07/12/2011          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                1750.06
  6     02/12/2012          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                1848.70
  7     09/21/2012          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                2025.53
  8     04/13/2013          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                2154.94
  9     11/10/2013          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                2718.28


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring             Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           The Government requested a
                                                           reallocation of resources
                                                           (US$360,000) from consulting
  07/13/2010        N         S       S        1498.77
                                                           services towards the financing of
                                                           grants in order to complete
                                                           disbursements by the closing date.
                                                           The Government requested a
                                                           reallocation of resources allocated
                                                           to cover operating costs for
                                                           salaries of the Program staff
  11/22/2011        N         S       S        1847.39
                                                           (US$530,000) towards the
                                                           financing of beneficiaries cash
                                                           grants (i.e., a change in
                                                           expenditure category).
                                                           The restructuring addressed three
                                                           issues which required amending
                                                           the Loan Agreement:
                                                           a. The reference to the cash grant
                                                           “energy support” (apoyo
                                                           energetico) was dropped because
  10/08/2012        N         S       S        2025.53     as of January 2012 the grant was
                                                           consolidated into the nutrition
                                                           grant.
                                                           b. With the objective to improve
                                                           efficiency, avoid delays and
                                                           possible errors and strengthen
                                                           capacity in the transmission of

                                             vi
                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring              Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           information, the Program
                                                           consolidated the arrangements for
                                                           paying participants under one
                                                           financial institution, the Banco de
                                                           Ahorro Nacional y Servicios
                                                           Financieros, S.N.C. (BANSEFI).
                                                           c. The Education Sector decided
                                                           that, starting in January 2012,
                                                           resources for the education grants
                                                           would be drawn from the budget
                                                           of the Public Education Ministry
                                                           (Secretaria de Educación Públic –
                                                           SEP) instead of from the National
                                                           Council for Educational
                                                           Development (Consejo Nacional
                                                           de Fomento Educativo–
                                                           CONAFE).




I. Disbursement Profile




                                             vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

After a period of macroeconomic stability and moderate growth (3.8 percent average annual
GDP growth between 2004 and 2007), coupled with public sector deficit reduction and debt-to-
GDP ratio declines which contributed to a healthy domestic credit expansion and growth of
domestic demand, the global financial crisis of 2008 led to a sharp tightening of financing
conditions in Mexico. The Mexican economy was hit through contractions in income and
employment, and a shortfall in fiscal revenue. Estimates at the time were that the recession
would cause the elimination of about half a million jobs in 2009 alone, and the number of poor
was expected to increase by 3.6 million. Previous experience had suggested that social impacts
of such a crisis could be significant: during the 1994-95 economic crisis, household welfare of
the poor declined not only from a fall in real income, but also from the weak fiscal and social
protection response by Government. Therefore in 2008, Government took important steps to
mitigate the impact of a global slowdown on growth and employment generation, and protect
human capital accumulation of the poorest. In contrast to the previous crisis periods, Mexico had
a more developed social protection system with better mechanisms to protect the poor. One of
the main instruments of social policy, and central to the domestic policy response of the
Government to the 2008 crisis, was the Conditional Cash Transfer Program Oportunidades,
designed in response to the crisis of 1994-95.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objectives were to 1:

    (i)     Increase capacities in health, nutrition and education of poor families through human
            capital investment by promoting regular health check-ups, improving health status,
            and raising school enrollment and attendance rates; and
    (ii)    Build sustainable connections between Oportunidades and other social programs of
            the Government of Mexico in order to improve health and education outcomes for
            Program participants.

Outcome indicators for tracking Project progress towards these objectives were the following 2:




1
  In the PAD, the following sentence was included as part of the PDO although it refers to the Project beneficiaries:
“The Project’s objective was to support Mexico's Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Program, Oportunidades, which
served slightly more than 5 million poor families at the time of appraisal. About 70 percent of these families were in
rural areas, 16 percent lived in semi-urban areas, with the remaining 14 percent in urban areas.”
2
  As indicated in results monitoring matrix, PAD, p. 70-72.


                                                          1
Outcome Indicators
   • % of families complying with health conditions [by age (with breakdown for pregnant
      women and children <5 and for indigenous and non-indigenous groups)]
   • % of children complying with education conditions by age
   • % of students who transition from primary to lower secondary education
   • % of students who transition from lower to upper secondary education
   • Number (and %) of Oportunidades schools participating in the Programa Escuelas de
      Calidad (PEC)
   • Number (and %) of Oportunidades beneficiaries with PRONABES scholarships

Intermediate Results Indicators
    • Number of municipalities, localities, families and children in Oportunidades
    • Number of exits of participants by type of exits
    • Implementation of PEI-CONAFE pilot with indigenous and non-indigenous families
    • Implementation of madrinas y parteras pilot
    • Implementation of AGE-CPC pilot in telesecundarias
    • Increase Number of beneficiaries with Seguro Popular

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Project’s PDOs were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The main beneficiaries were poor families participating in the Conditional Cash Transfer
Program Oportunidades. In particular, the Program targeted poor households in marginalized
rural, semi-urban and urban areas (areas are classified according to their social marginalization
index, and individual households are then targeted based on their socioeconomic characteristics
and the likelihood of being extremely poor).

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Support to the Continuation of the Oportunidades Program (US$1,498.5
million of loan financing). Resources of the Bank loan would be used to finance some of the
cash transfers to the participants in Oportunidades. It would not be used to finance in-kind
support to families, nor the provision of education or health services to them. Under the first
Component, the Project planned on financing the bi-monthly cash payments for five transfers
(nutrition, education, school supplies, compensation for international food price increases, and
compensation for spending on energy) in the full structure of cash transfers to families. It was
expected that the Project would finance the equivalent of 2.5 million beneficiary families through
2010.

Component 2: Technical Assistance to Oportunidades (US$1.5 million of loan financing).
The activities to be carried out under this Component aimed to: (a) increase the quality and
accessibility of the health and education services used by Oportunidades families. In particular,

                                                2
this Component was supposed to support efforts to make better use of several on-going public
initiatives, including in the areas of early childhood development (PEI-CONAFE), school quality
(Programa Escuelas de Calidad - PEC) and Support to School Management Program (Apoyo a
la Gestión Escolar-AGE), community health, and health insurance for the poor (the non-
contributory scheme of the Seguro Popular); (b) develop strategies to increase the level of self-
sufficiency of Oportunidades families so that they would be able to increase their well-being,
including, (i) strategies for graduating youth, (ii) facilitate access to scholarships for higher
education and/or labor orientation and training courses and, particularly for families with many
years in Oportunidades, (iii) facilitate access to other social programs, housing, and
employment; (c) further improve the design and operation of Oportunidades, including, a review
of the reasons for the incomplete take-up of the education grants by school-age children, and a
study on possible community-level activities to support the Program; and (d) implement the
Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP). Under this Component, the Project financed consultancy services
which were required to carry out studies, systematization of best practices and experience in
implementation of pilot programs, diagnosis of the requirements to facilitate better coordination
with other social programs (for example, development of standards for sharing data, identifying
changes in the operating rules of various programs to improve coordination, etc.), and design and
implementation of dissemination and communication strategies.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project’s components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

The main significant change to the scope and scale of the Project came through an Additional
Financing (AF) of US$1,250 million approved in November 2010 (Component 1 US$1,244.5,
and Component 2 US$2.3, excluding front-end fee). The AF responded to two objectives. First,
it allowed the Government to cover an unanticipated financing gap for 2010-2011, since
Mexico’s fiscal situation was more severely affected by the international economic and financial
crisis than expected at the time the original Project was appraised. Secondly, the additional
resources contributed to Government’s efforts to strengthen the social response, expanding
Oportunidades’ coverage and benefits in an attempt to mitigate the impact of the 2008 economic
crisis on the poor. The AF contributed to financing the expanded coverage of beneficiaries
(600,000 more beneficiaries, in addition to the 5.2 million originally supported by the Project, for
a total of 5.8 million). While the development objective and the components of the Project did
not change with the AF, the indicators were revised to reflect minor streamlining and to adjust
targets to the extended closing date of December 31, 2013. One minor adjustment relative to the
original Project was the provision for financing of operating costs to cover the salary costs of
program staff responsible for administering the World Bank Group (WBG) Loan.

In addition to the AF, the Project underwent three Level Two restructurings described below:

The first restructuring responded to a request by Government for a small reallocation
(US$360,000) from the Technical Assistance (TA) Component towards the financing of cash
grants to complete disbursements by the closing date of December 31, 2010. While the full
amount of the Grants Component had been disbursed, some delays in the TA Component of the
                                                 3
Project allowed the availability of additional resources to be reallocated from that component.
The reallocation did not affect the Project’s satisfactory performance and achievement of PDOs.

The second restructuring was necessary because the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
withheld the authorization necessary for the National Coordination of Oportunidades to use Loan
resources to cover operating costs for salaries of the Program staff, as provided for in the AF.
The Government requested a reallocation of these resources (US$530,000) towards the financing
of cash grants (i.e., a change in expenditure category). The operating costs which were to have
been covered by the Loan, were instead covered by national resources, and no significant
changes or fiduciary issues arose as a result of the reallocation.

The third restructuring addressed three issues which required amending the Loan Agreement:

     a. The reference to the cash grant “energy support” (apoyo energetico) was dropped because
        as of January 2012 the grant was consolidated into the nutrition grant. The energy grant
        was the smallest and was already linked to the same co-responsibilities as the nutrition
        grant, so there were no substantive implications of this change for Program participants.

     b. With the objective to improve efficiency, avoid delays and possible errors, and strengthen
        capacity in the transmission of information, the Program consolidated the arrangements
        for paying participants under only one financial institution, the Banco de Ahorro Nacional
        y Servicios Financieros, S.N.C. (BANSEFI), thereby eliminating the need for agreements
        with two other distribution channels (DICONSA and Telecomunicaciones de Mexico).
        This change implied a slight revision in the Project’s overall financial management (FM)
        arrangements, but did not affect the FM risks assessed.

     c. The Education Sector decided that, starting in January 2012, resources for the education
        grants would be drawn from the budget of the Public Education Ministry (Secretaria de
        Educación Pública – SEP) instead of from the National Council for Educational
        Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo– CONAFE). There were no
        substantive implications to this change, as the control of the budget for the education
        grants remained under the responsibility of the education sector.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the background analysis. The Project represented the largest social protection
loan ever made by the Bank and one of the largest in the country. As reflected by the
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) crisis response analysis, 3 the large amount of lending to
Mexico was a reflection of country demand, the existence of a mature social protection program,
and the capacity of the Government to absorb the funds. At the time the Project was requested,
the Bank had no lending operation in social protection in the country. The WBG had, however,


3
    IEG, The World Bank Groups’ Response to the Global Economic Crisis, Phase II, (2012).


                                                         4
been closely engaged with the country since 2006 through the CCT Community of Practice
(COP). 4 The dialogue fostered by the COP, including through a two-day workshop organized in
Mexico in early 2008, contributed to Mexico’s decision to turn to the WBG to support
Oportunidades when the global economic slowdown began. The crisis required a rapid response
to protect the poor and most vulnerable, and the choice to support a well-functioning Program
with proven impact (see Box 1), was appropriate and made Project preparation possible in a short
timeframe with the knowledge and trust acquired through the close engagement in the COP.

    Box 1: Oportunidades - Impact Evaluation and Key Results

    Extensive qualitative and quantitative data has been collected on Oportunidades since 1997. The most recent surveys
    were in 2007 for rural areas and 2009 for urban areas. All external evaluations have been made public, often posted
    on the Program website and/or published in respected academic journals.

    In the area of education:
     • Important increases in the grades of schooling achieved for young male and female adults (0.85 and 0.65
          additional years respectively, between the ages of 17-22).
     • Significant and positive impacts on indigenous people, as high as or higher than for non-indigenous youth (0.64
          (women), 0.84 (men) additional years),
     • Some encouraging positive tendencies in achievement (Increase of 10 percent in the scores on the Woodcock-
          Johnson exams in mathematics for men and women between 19 and 22 years) – though lag in outcomes is
          persistent and possibly tied to quality of services
     • Quality of education services is strongly correlated with education gaps. Controlling for variables of context,
          there is no difference between test scores of Oportunidades students and other students.
     • Schools attended by Oportunidades students are disadvantaged in their access to important inputs and services.
    In the area of health:
     • Increases in prenatal care, less likelihood of adolescents to engage in risky behavior, and reductions in obesity
          and chronic illness among Program participants.
     • Increases in both overall and food consumption, sustained over time.
     • In the case of nutrition, reduction by 22.2 percentage points in the prevalence of stunting and of 11.8
          percentage points in the prevalence of anemia in children below the age of two
     • Also, reduction by 5.4 (urban areas) and 14.2 (rural areas) percentage points in the prevalence of anemia in
          pregnant women between 17 and 22 years.


Assessment of Project design. The Project design responded to the need of the Government to
support its flagship social protection program in a time of financial difficulties, which would in
turn meet the objective of protecting the income and human capital investments of the poorest.
On the one hand, the Project supported a rapid financial response targeted to the most vulnerable
groups of Mexico (Component 1-Cash Grants) while relying entirely on existing systems, which
had proven to be well-suited for the stated objective of protecting human capital, and which
allowed the Project to be designed and implemented quickly. At the same time, through its


4
 The CCT COP is a virtual learning community managed by the WBG, in which 5 Latin American countries (Brazil,
Mexico, Colombia, Chile, and El Salvador) engage and discuss topics important for their CCT programs, such as
management, local and Government institutional strengthening, monitoring and evaluation, and the future role of
CCT programs. The CCT COP had fostered a strong, tight-knit network of senior practitioners who found a forum
for continuous communication, where they could learn from each other on CCT implementation challenges and
provided essential inputs in the design of the operation.


                                                          5
technical component (Component 2), the Project provided key evidence-based inputs to the
Oportunidades Program in a flexible way, responding to emerging needs in the agenda to
strengthen the Program’s operation. As requested by the Government, the TA Component
focused on areas within the Program’s existing evaluation agenda where it was expected that the
WBG could bring the greatest value added. In fact, TA support was more extensive than
expected when the Loan was approved, both through supervision itself and through related Bank-
financed analytical and advisory services. 5

The framing of Project objectives was fully aligned to Oportunidades’ goals. The first PDO was
articulated based on what could be measured and attributed to the Oportunidades Program.
Outcome indicators focused on maintaining Program activities at a desirable level, under the
assumption that those would lead to improved results in consumption, health and education
outcomes, as had been shown by the Program’s impact evaluations. For the second PDO, the
indicators chosen to monitor progress in building sustainable connections with other social
programs were ambitious in that they partially depended on decisions made within the education
and health sectors regarding the operation and coverage of their programs. These indicators were
chosen to signal the direction in which the Program had to move to start addressing the issue of
access to services and quality of outcomes for its beneficiaries. With this in mind, the targets
were articulated both in absolute and percentage terms to track improvements in coordination
even if programs’ expansion per se took longer to materialize

Incorporating Lessons Learned. The design of the TA Component and TA support during
implementation took into account the lessons learned from Bank experience with CCT programs
internationally. These lessons focused on two areas: (i) key elements that have to be in place and
monitored carefully to guarantee the success of CCT programs; and (ii) issues related to second-
generation CCT programs.

Table 1. Lesson learned that informed Project design
                     Lessons learned which informed project design

    Key elements     An accurate system to identify and select the target population
    for success of
                     Selection of co-responsibilities that take into account specific human capital development
    CCT programs
                     shortcomings to be addressed
                     CCT programs cannot be thought of in isolation from other social policies and programs, and
    Issues related   achieving human capital accumulation goals will require adaptation of the supply of social
    to second-       services (coverage, quality)
    generation
                     CCTs have the potential to evolve from their effective, but isolated, role in poverty reduction
    CCT programs
                     strategies to become part of a broader social protection system

Assessment of Government’s commitment. Oportunidades is Mexico’s flagship social
program and from the beginning the Government showed strong commitment to the Project, both



5
  In particular: Programmatic Knowledge Services: Social Protection for the Poor (116169), NLTA: Improvements
in CCT Governance SFLAC (P125712) and Programmatic Knowledge Services: Strengthening Social Protection
System (P129698). Details can be found in Annex 2.


                                                          6
from the Ministry of Finance and the National Financing Agency 6 (Nacional Financiera,
NAFIN), as well as from the implementing agency, the National Coordination of Oportunidades
(which is part of the Ministry of Social Development - SEDESOL). Project design was well
aligned with the needs of the Program, and the Government more broadly. The National
Coordination was committed to working with all stakeholders involved to ensure results in the
context of the Project. No substantial problems arose during implementation and Government
commitment was sustained throughout implementation and beyond, as evidenced by the request
for a new Bank-financed operation.

Assessment of risk. During Project preparation a number of risks were identified that could
affect implementation. One concern was related to international experiences with CCTs that had
mixed results; however Oportunidades had had a solid track record (see also Box 1), strong
organizations and well-established institutions. These risks were low and did not materialize. A
second concern was related to difficulties in achieving coordination with ministries and
institutions to implement activities that would improve the Program’s operational model
(linkages with other social programs and activities included in the Indigenous Peoples Plan -
IPP). These risks were also rated as low after accounting for the mitigation measures considered
within the Project, and they did not affect overall achievement of Project outcomes. However, it
is worth mentioning that this was an area that proved much more challenging than expected and
to which significant Program and Bank staff time and resources were devoted to ensure success.

2.2 Implementation
Project implementation was satisfactory. At no time was the Project considered a potential
problem or actual problem Project and no significant external factors emerged that affected
implementation. In particular, Component 1 (Cash Transfers) disbursed regularly, and
Component 2 was also on track with only minor delays in contracting some technical activities.
All major outputs were delivered on time and Project implementation rating was satisfactory
throughout implementation. While at appraisal Oportunidades was covering five million families,
its coverage was increased to 5.8 million largely in an attempt to mitigate the impact of the crises.
By Project’s end, the Program was covering over 5.9 million families. Two-thirds of the new
households came from semi-urban and urban areas where there had been under-coverage of the
program; there was also an important expansion to incorporate additional small, isolated rural
areas that had been harder to reach in previous years.

Despite the fact that it was the first project with the World Bank for the implementing agency,
the National Coordination was overall very effective. The agency and the Bank developed a joint
work program for Component 2, which supported the Program’s longstanding evaluation agenda
and could be adapted flexibly according to emerging needs of Oportunidades. In fact, the scope
of the Bank’s involvement on TA was greater than expected, and this increased demand for it
was addressed both through supervision activities and additional financing. This flexible
approach was instrumental in achieving results in areas that were unplanned but important to


6
  The National Financing Agency (NAFIN) acts as financial administrator and financial agent of the Borrower with
regard to external loans. In that capacity, NAFIN manages loan disbursement processes and provides other
implementation support and oversight.


                                                       7
improve the Program’s effectiveness (i.e., targeting). More details are provided in Annex 2. All
TA work was carried out in close collaboration with the Inter-American Development Bank
(IADB), which was also providing financing and TA to Oportunidades. The two organizations
coordinated joint supervision missions to ensure full alignment and maximize the level of
technical assistance provided to the Government. The timely restructurings of the Project showed
pro-activeness on the side of the Bank team in responding to changing needs, and resulted in a
smooth implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Given the nature of the Project, which was financing US$2.7 billion out of a total of US$22
billion in cash transfers provided by the well-established Conditional Cash Transfer Program that
demonstrated its positive impact in rigorous evaluations in many important areas, the Project’s
Monitoring and Evaluation framework was designed to build on the Program’s established
monitoring system. Project indicators were chosen among those established by Oportunidades
itself to reflect Program results. 7 The methods identified to monitor progress toward the PDO
were timely and adequate and could be constantly measured to inform the operation.

At the time of Project design Oportunidades had an ongoing evaluation agenda (including needs,
process, and impact evaluations), which was part of a national effort to promote management for
results and evidence-based policy making through a systematic evaluation of public programs. 8
The Program had also developed a comprehensive monitoring structure supported by
sophisticated mechanisms to monitor program processes and indicators to follow day-to-day
information on program operation, providing useful and real-time information and feedback to
program staff at different levels.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards – Indigenous People’s Plan. The Project triggered OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples).
An Indigenous People’s Plan (IPP) was prepared at the time of the original Project. A social
assessment was conducted, and updated at the time of the Additional Financing. The social
assessment highlighted the high proportion of indigenous participants in the Program since its
inception in 1998 as Progresa. In 2009, about 26 percent of the 5 million beneficiary families
were indigenous and the proportion remained constant after program expansion (26 percent of
5.8 million beneficiaries in 2013). 9 Given the high proportion of indigenous beneficiaries, and
the nature of the Program which aims at facilitating the accumulation of human capital in
participant families through incentives to behavior change, the main activities envisaged in the


7
  The Program’s results matrix (Matriz de Indicadores para Resultados, MIR) is revised every year and approved by
the Ministry of Finance in advance of the budget cycle. The one for 2013 can be found at:
http://www.oportunidades.gob.mx/EVALUACION/es/wersd53465sdg1/matriz/pal_resumen_narrativo_2013.pdf
8
  The Federal Government has established a system of performance evaluations for all social programs in the
framework of results-based management, against a Matrix of Indicators of Results agreed for each program,
including Oportunidades. The results of this evaluation is reported to the Congress and linked to the budget process.
9
  The Program estimates the number of indigenous beneficiaries based on number of beneficiaries in localities
classified by the Government as indigenous (where population is majority indigenous).


                                                         8
IPP were directed at further adapting Program communication/rules to improve results for
indigenous beneficiaries. In particular, several evaluations indicated larger gaps in outcomes,
such as reproductive and maternal health, nutrition and transition from lower to upper secondary
education and beyond, for indigenous beneficiaries. The Program therefore focused on making
improvements in these areas. The results of some of the activities implemented were greater than
expected and led to improvements in Program design, while others did not prove as successful
and were discontinued (see Annex 2). Overall, the Project successfully implemented the IPP and
contributed to improve Program results for indigenous groups through: (i) increased coverage in
indigenous areas/localities, and (ii) improved capacity to reach out/communicate and provide
services to indigenous beneficiaries by strengthening the indigenous people/s communication
plan and the bilingual program staff initiative. A significant achievement in the latter was that in
2009 Oportunidades embarked on a process to improve the ratio of frontline program staff able
to serve indigenous beneficiary populations in their respective language. This required
reassigning some staff to different regions, training, and hiring new staff. In the process,
Oportunidades partnered with the National Institute of Indigenous Languages (INALI from the
Spanish acronym) and developed a Program to formally certify staff as bilingual, as well as to
further strengthen the capacity of these staff to perform their functions. 10

Fiduciary – Financial Management. Financial management performance was always rated
satisfactory. As is usual with CCT programs, the large number of payments and their
geographical spread pose significant FM implementation challenges and an inherent FM risk.
Despite an initial classification as high risk, however, the residual FM risk for the Project at
appraisal was considered modest after accounting for the existing control system. All financial
management aspects were coordinated by the National Coordination of Oportunidades, using
Mexico’s existing systems and organizational arrangements. FM processes and information
systems were reviewed, often jointly with the IADB as both development agencies had ongoing
projects for Oportunidades and were consistently considered effective in maintaining a sound
control environment and mitigating the major inherent risks associated with the execution of a
conditional cash transfer program. The interim financial reports and annual external audits were
delivered on time and considered acceptable by the Bank. In the 2010 audit, auditors had initially
issued observations related to weaknesses in the Project’s internal controls. However, following
a Bank supervision mission these findings were considered not adequately formulated and the
result of a misunderstanding of the auditors on the functioning of the Program.

Fiduciary – Procurement. Procurement performance was always rated satisfactory. The Project
financed mainly cash transfers for which no procurement was involved. Under Component 2,
only procurement of consultant services was required. The procurement risk assessment at
appraisal was low. The National Coordination had had no experience with procurement under
Bank-Financed operations, but could count on two professionals familiar with procurement


10
  The certification process established specific standards and requirements (two options, one for “Attention in
Native Language” and one for “Evaluation”), and is open to all Program staff that speaks an indigenous language
and wishes to become certified. By the time the Project closed in December 2013, 55 people had been certified in
one or both of the possible standards (Specifically, 47 people were certified for “Service in Native Language” and 8
for “Evaluation.” 15 of these were certified in both).


                                                         9
procedures of multilateral agencies and experience in the implementation of IADB-financed
operations. The most relevant procurement issues were a series of requests for large single
source selection contracts with specialized institutions and a few delays in the implementation of
some technical assistance activities. The single source contracts were required for the Project and
justified according to Bank policies, 11 while delays in contract effectiveness affected some
studies.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Program is well institutionalized at the core of Mexico’s social protection system. At Project
completion, no impact on the Program’s operation was expected due to the closing of the Loan.
Oportunidades has demonstrated ability to reach a large share of the poor and positively impact
their welfare and human capital accumulation. The Program remains highly relevant within the
Government’s priorities for social policy.

Important challenges remain to consolidate the Program, particularly related to strengthening
health and education outcomes and developing stronger links to social and productive
interventions to improve families’ wellbeing. The Government assigns high priority to scaling
up and consolidating the strategy to link Oportunidades beneficiaries with social and productive
programs that can help them develop skills and generate opportunities for income generation to
increase employability and productivity of beneficiaries. In 2013, the Government formalized its
objective to connect Oportunidades beneficiaries with other interventions, by modifying the
operating rules of twenty-nine federal productive and social programs to ensure that
Oportunidades beneficiaries receive priority attention.

While the Government’s political and financial commitment to Oportunidades is guaranteed, in
2013 the Mexican Government requested a new World Bank Loan to support the redesign of the
Oportunidades Program, with the objective of further improving its impact by linking
beneficiaries to additional social and productive programs. The objectives and engagement
remain highly relevant both to country priorities and the World Bank twin goals of eradicating
extreme poverty and increasing shared prosperity. For the new Loan the Government requested a
stronger program of technical assistance which will also include support to the operational part
of the Program.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: High

The objectives, design and implementation of the Project were highly relevant at the time of
appraisal. Project objectives remain consistent with Mexico’s efforts to reduce poverty and with
the World Bank vision to reduce extreme poverty and increase shared prosperity. The 2008-2013



11
     Procurement Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, May 2004 (revised October 2006 and May 2010).


                                                      10
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 12 for Mexico identified flexibility, fast response, and
selectivity, driven by the key long term development challenges of Mexico, as drivers for
engagement. The Loan reflected the Bank group’s flexibility and fast response to the financial
requirements of the Mexican Government while maintaining close alignment to one of the long-
term development challenges identified as a priority for Bank support: promoting social
inclusion and reducing poverty.

The Government’s decision to expand Oportunidades, as well as recent efforts to increase its
role by strengthening linkages with other social and productive programs, are a demonstration of
the continued relevance of this engagement. The Project’s objectives remain consistent with the
Government’s 2013-2018 National Development Plan and its goal to reduce poverty and
inequality while fostering economic development. Project objectives are also fully aligned with
the World Bank Group twin goals of ending extreme poverty and promoting shared prosperity in
a sustainable manner and, more recently, with the goal of the recently approved 2014-2019
Country Partnership Strategy 13 to increase social prosperity.

The design of the Project combined the financial support that ensured sustained coverage of the
Program with an analytical and evaluation agenda that provided the necessary elements to
strengthen Program design. In fact, the Government valued the international perspective and
technical advice that the Bank brought to support its effort to strengthen the Program. This is
demonstrated by the fact that the WBG’s involvement in the operational aspects of the Program
grew over time, expanding through complementary analytical and advisory services first and
then evolving into a request for a new operation to support the redesign of the Program that relies
heavily on analytical work conducted under the Project.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: High

Given that the Project was designed to support a well-established Government program with a
strong monitoring framework, the framing of the PDO was driven largely by the Program’s
expected outcomes and targets. The outcome and intermediate indicators chosen were
appropriate to track progress in achieving Project objectives, and were linked to the Project’s
activities. At the time of completion, all the outcome targets, as well as the intermediate
indicators, were largely achieved. The full results matrix with more details can be found in the
Data Sheet.

Indicator targets to track progress in increasing capacities in health, nutrition and education of
poor families as described in the program’s Operational Manual were realistic and based on
ensuring that Oportunidades could maintain its effectiveness and coverage during a time of
economic recession and during which the Government was under fiscal constraint. The number
of Oportunidades’ beneficiaries increased above initial plans, reaching beyond expected


12
     Country Partnership Strategy with the United States of Mexico, 2004, Report No.28141-ME.



                                                        11
coverage in urban, semi-urban and rural areas and all targets for compliance with health,
nutrition and education co-responsibilities indicators were fully achieved or surpassed.

The indicators focused on tracking the success of the program in building sustained linkages
between Oportunidades and other social programs were the first attempt at broadening and
strengthening the links between Oportunidades and the two sectors to further improve health and
education outcomes for beneficiaries. Those indicators focused on where the WBG would be
well positioned to have a positive impact, both through its work with Oportunidades and through
its health and education projects, 14 given that achieving results in this area depended crucially on
decisions made in coordination with these sectors at the state and national levels. Since those
indicators were not entirely under the control of Oportunidades itself, the choice of targets was
intentionally conservative and reflected in percentage as well as absolute terms. The percentage
targets aimed to monitor whether the health (Seguro Popular) and education (PEC and
PRONABES) programs were improving their targeting by focusing more on Oportunidades
beneficiaries, and were fully achieved. 15

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: High

At appraisal, no ad hoc economic and financial analyses of the Project were undertaken. The
following factors – which remain relevant today – were considered in determining the efficiency
of the Project (see also Annex 3):
    • The body of evidence on Oportunidades, based on the numerous external evaluations
        conducted since the program started in 1997, shows significant positive impacts of the
        Program on household consumption, school enrollment and attendance, health
        prevention/access to health and nutrition – all of which are part of the Project’s
        development objectives (Box 1).
    • The most recent cost-effectiveness analysis 16 was conducted monetizing the results of
        these impact evaluations, but was limited to returns to schooling. These simulations show
        mostly positive results, with positive cost/benefit ratios ranging from 1.4 – 7.1, except in
        some cases using a 10 percent discount rate. These results can be considered a lower
        bound on the expected benefits since they do not consider the impacts on health and
        nutrition (or consumption more generally).



14
   Support to the Social Protection System in Health (P116226), School Based Management (P115347) and Tertiary
Education Student Assistance APL (P085593).
15
   The absolute numbers depended on a combination of targeting and expansion of these programs, which was less
certain. For example, according to the PAD of the School Based Management (P115347) Project, targets for the
PEC program as a whole for end of 2012 were of 41,605 participating schools. Reaching the 40,000 target set in the
results framework would have implied that almost 100 percent of PEC schools were Oportunidades schools, which
was not the intent of the target. In the case of PRONABES the absolute target set of 90,000 scholarships to
Oportunidades beneficiaries would have represented 28 percent of PRONABES scholarships offered by SEP in
2013 while the percentage set as a target was 20.
16
   Parker, S., Behrman, J. (2008) “Seguimiento de adultos jóvenes en hogares incorporados desde 1998 a
Oportunidades: Impactos en educación, pruebas de desempeño.”


                                                       12
       •   The Project supported improvements in targeting that should lead to further
           improvements in Program effectiveness since studies have shown larger impact of CCTs
           among households that are poorer at the baseline. 17

Moreover, the Project supported increases in coordination of social policy which are expected to
further improve efficiency and returns from investment: evaluations have shown that an
important factor behind the persistent gaps in outcomes for Oportunidades beneficiaries is the
lower quality of services received. Greater coordination with education and health sectors to
improve the coverage and quality of services – as evidenced by the efforts to increase coverage
of PEC and PRONABES – for the Oportunidades population is thus expected to lead to greater
impacts on final outcomes for the target population.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The Project as a whole achieved its objectives, and the Overall Outcome Rating is satisfactory.
Oportunidades was critical in protecting human capital during the crisis and has, over time, been
successful in improving living conditions of the extreme poor, as evidenced by the impact
evaluations. While WBG support was small as a share of the overall budget for the Program, its
resources and technical assistance contributed to ensure continued appropriate investment in the
Program in a difficult financial situation, and to strengthen Oportunidades and its effectiveness
(targeting, coverage, quality and links with other services). The TA directed at forging stronger
ties with other sectors went beyond immediate response during crisis, to fostering deeper support
for the long-term quality of the program and thus greater impact on the well-being of its
beneficiaries

Project activities were appropriate to achieve objectives, which remain highly relevant both to
the Government and the WBG strategy for Mexico. The Program remains a key element of the
Government’s social protection and poverty reduction strategy and its role is expanding,
particularly in the more challenging area of coordination with other programs, which was the
most innovative – and challenging – part supported by the Project. Supporting Oportunidades
remains an important element of the new Country Partnership Strategy as the program
constitutes a key building block of the social protection system in Mexico.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
While poverty reduction was not stated explicitly as an objective of the Project, the Bank and the
Government were clearly concerned with the impact the global financial crisis was going to have
on poverty levels in Mexico, as well as with the consequences for human capital accumulation.
According to the analysis conducted by CONEVAL and simulations by World Bank staff,
Oportunidades played a key role in moderating losses among the poor during the crisis.


17
     Conditional Cash Transfers: Reducing Present and future Poverty (World Bank, 2009), p. 136.


                                                         13
Estimates suggested that social programs contained the growth of poverty rates by around 1
percentage point between 2006 and 2008. Moreover, simulations by the World Bank and IEG18
suggested that expanding the coverage of Oportunidades and Programa de Apoyo Alimentario
(PAL) 19 programs by a total of 1 million households (as was planned in 2010) would reduce the
depth of poverty by 0.4 percentage point (or 2 percent) or the poverty headcount rate by 1.8
percentage points (or 3.6 percent), compared to a scenario with no expansion, depending on
whether the expansion targeted the poorest or those close to the poverty line. More recent studies
indicate that without the expansion of Oportunidades’ coverage, which was supported by the
Project, the income of those in the 20th percentile would have fallen by just over 8 percent, but
with the expansion the drop was less than six percent. For those in the tenth percentile, incomes
fell only 3 percent. 20

The evidence clearly points to the critical role played by the transfers in mitigating this impact on
the poor and, based on previous experience in Mexico, it can be argued that the cash transfers
allowed families to devote resources to their human capital development which they would not
have had otherwise. Moreover, the review of the targeting instrument shows that the program is
effectively targeted to the very poorest households.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening. The technical assistance provided in the context of
supervision missions, supported synergies created within the social sector by supporting the
Government’s efforts to strengthen social policy evaluation and harmonize social policy tools. In
particular, technical assistance supported existing synergies between CONEVAL, SEDESOL
and Oportunidades in the areas of poverty identification and beneficiary selection through the
dialogue on targeting, as well as more generally in the area of evidence-based policy formulation
through coordination of the evaluation agenda. Additionally, Oportunidades significantly
strengthened and internalized its operational strategy and mechanisms for improving services
provided to indigenous beneficiaries.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The Project has contributed to the public good through a wealth of information on the operation
and evaluation of CCTs. This has resulted in better design and implementation of several CCT
programs and is evidenced by the number of Bank coordinated South-South exchanges with
countries interested in Mexico’s experience.




18
   See World Bank, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit Latin America and Caribbean
Region, Recent Trends and Forecasts of Poverty in Mexico (October 2010) and IEG, The World Bank Groups’
Response to the Global Economic Crisis, Phase II, (2012).
19
   As of 2010 the food support program (Programa de Apoyo Alimentario - PAL) was moved under the control of
Oportunidades. It targets the same population as Oportunidades, but beneficiaries are selected in areas where the
supply of services is not running in full capacity, meaning that Oportunidades co-responsibilities are not
implementable.
20
   Understanding the Poverty Impact of the Global Financial Crisis in Latin America and the Caribbean, edited by
Margaret Grosh, Maurizio Bussolo, Samuel Freije, World Bank (forthcoming)


                                                       14
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible

The country has enjoyed macroeconomic stability over the last two decades and prudent policies
have prevented the occurrence of major fiscal and financial disruptions. Even after the 2008-
2009 global crises, Mexico’s economy rebounded quickly and the fiscal challenges were
overcome. While weaker economic activity (externally or internally driven) could potentially
pose downside risks to Mexico’s growth and public sector revenue perspectives, and thus affect
Program progress, the current Government is undertaking crucial structural reforms to unleash
growth and raise productivity levels. Oportunidades continues to be a key social program in
Mexico, and to be highly valued for its contribution to reducing poverty and extreme poverty,
ensuring a better income distribution, and fostering continued investment in human capital for
poor families. As a result, the Program has withstood several Government transitions and has
expanded significantly over time. It counts on widespread political support, Government
commitment and sustained budget allocations. The Government recently announced that the
program will now undertake new initiatives to promote productive inclusion, further expanding
the role and scope of Oportunidades within Mexico’s poverty reduction agenda.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is highly satisfactory. Thanks to the strong
ties that the WBG had forged with the Oportunidades Program and other country stakeholders
through the CCT COP, the Bank was able to respond quickly and effectively to the
Government’s request for assistance. The Project was prepared and presented to the Board in
record time, with identification to Board occurring in the space of four months. Project design
supported the Borrower’s priority of ensuring funding of its flagship social program during a
time of crisis, while positioning the program beyond the crisis by creating space for a strong
evidence-based technical agenda that would further strengthen Oportunidades’ effectiveness.
The WBG provided key technical inputs to ensure that the lessons learned and experience from
other countries and Mexico would inform the design and implementation of the Program.

Risks were candidly identified during preparation and appraisal, and the Project’s design
incorporated mitigation measures with the result that those risks never materialized or, in the
case of the coordination challenges identified, did not affect Project outcomes. Safeguards were
taken into consideration appropriately and measures were built into Project that significantly
strengthened Program’s outreach to Indigenous Populations. During preparation, a
                                              15
comprehensive Indigenous People Plan was prepared to address the needs of the Indigenous
population in the Program, which were highly represented among the target beneficiary groups.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank’s performance during supervision was satisfactory. The Bank team maintained a
strong dialogue with the counterpart, ensuring that its technical advice and support maintained
relevance throughout implementation. The Bank effectively mobilized complementary
programmatic resources (non-lending technical assistance-NLTA/Programmatic Knowledge
Service-PKS) to support key elements of Oportunidades’ design when it became apparent that
the technical assistance agenda was larger than expected and required timely support. The WBG
team also leveraged its supervision budget to carry out timely technical assistance, adding
experts in targeting, graduation and other areas as needed to respond to evolving Government
needs. The large volume of analytical work conducted as part of the Project’s TA and the
complementary programmatic resources required substantive implementation support effort and
resources on the part of the Bank, often in coordination with the IADB. Quality of supervision
remained satisfactory throughout the Project. No mid-term review was conducted due to the
short implementation time of the original Project and the timing of the AF. To respond to
changing needs under the Program, the Project was restructured three times as described earlier.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

For the reasons described in the previous sections above, the Overall Bank Performance is
considered satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government’s performance is considered satisfactory. Throughout the Project, the
Government showed high commitment at all levels and responded in a timely manner to any
need for adjustments and changes identified by studies or best practice. The new administration
is now revisiting the Program to ensure productive inclusion of beneficiaries, demonstrating that
the Program remains a priority.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Implementation Agency’s performance is considered satisfactory. Since the beginning of the
Project, the National Coordination for Oportunidades showed strong leadership and ownership

                                               16
of Project objectives. It established a solid partnership with the Bank to support its efforts to
strengthen the program, and was crucial in solidifying a culture of strong monitoring and
evaluation that effectively contributed to increase Program impact. The National Coordination
and the States Delegations also made important efforts to strengthen their partnership with
agencies that could contribute to improve outcomes for Oportunidades beneficiaries, as aspired
to in the PDO. In particular, the National Coordination sought to coordinate with the health and
education sectors both at the central and State levels. While it did not fully succeed in achieving
all proposed goals in terms of cross-sectoral coordination, significant progress in bringing
stakeholders together was made.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

For the reasons described in the previous sections, the Overall Borrower Performance is
considered Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

This operation was the largest World Bank operation in Social Protection in the region and was
prepared in a very short time. It offered a distinct opportunity for the Bank to learn from, and
contribute to, the implementation of a Program that is internationally recognized and has been a
model for conditional cash transfer programs in many other countries. The implementation
experience offers a wealth of lessons, which are summarized below as: (i) lessons learned for
Oportunidades as a CCT; and (ii) lessons learned with respect to the Bank’s involvement. All are
important in the context of the preparation of a new operation.

Lessons learned with respect to Conditional Cash Transfer Programs:
• In a time of crisis CCTs can be easily scaled up in coverage or generosity ensuring a pro-
   poor targeted support in a difficult time.
• Households can remain beneficiaries of CCTs for a very long time and may need additional
   support to transition out of poverty, particularly given the high economic and social
   marginalization of the areas in which beneficiaries tend to live.
• CCT programs cannot be thought of in isolation from other social policies, and achieving
   human capital accumulation goals will require adaptation of the supply of social services
   (coverage but also quality).
• Cross-sectoral coordination might be more challenging and move slower than expected.
   Effective collaboration and articulation across sectors requires clears rules and well-defined
   tracking mechanisms, as well as participation of all stakeholders from the design stage and
   constant communication. It remains a major challenge for the new generation of CCTs which
   seek stronger linkages with social and productive programs as part of a social protection
   system.
• A shift in vision from a Program to a systemic approach requires strong institutional
   leadership, and commitment from all actors involved.
• A rigorous evaluation agenda provides legitimacy and support for CCT programs as well as
   the evidence base to introduce changes in program operation that can improve outcomes.

                                                17
   This evidence base is especially important in the context of the need to build stronger links
   with other social programs.

Lessons learned with respect to the Bank’s assistance:
• Maintaining dialogue in the absence of lending is key to keeping a place at the table, and to
   being able to respond rapidly. The CCT COP was instrumental in for this.
• Being engaged matters. Having an operation allowed the Bank to understand program
   operation and demands and provide better technical assistance through different vehicles.
• Having a suite of services (lending and non-lending) that can respond in a flexible way to
   demands generated by the Government is important. Team proactivity and availability of
   complementary financial resources to be able to respond to emerging technical assistance
   demand are essential.
• Timely, focused, technical assistance can lead a project from responsive to transformative.
   The direct support to Oportunidades was the main purpose of the Project at the outset.
   However, the high-quality technical assistance rendered under the Project led to
   improvements in operational design and a deeper engagement during the redesign phase for
   the second generation of one of the largest CCT programs in the world.
• Being able to rapidly mobilize WBG specialists is key to successful TA and maintaining the
   relevance of WBG assistance to Middle Income Countries (MICs).
• Working closely with development partners and institutions, such as the IADB, while
   challenging and time-consuming for the teams, strengthened the Program.
• Effective coordination among World Bank operations for better health and education
   outcomes for Oportunidades beneficiaries proved to be less successful than anticipated.
• The inter-institutional collaboration with health and education, while crucial for the success
   of the Program proved challenging and advanced at a slow pace. In light of the new phase for
   the Program these efforts to continuously improve articulation are even more critical. The
   lessons learned in this experience should inform the design of the new operation in ensuring
   the right balance between innovative and ambitious vision and direct results attributable to
   the operation.
• The choice to use a Sector Investment Loan (SIL) instead of Development Policy Lending
   (DPL) made it possible for the team to be more involved in the operational details of the
   Program and, as a consequence, to provide timely TA that was well aligned with emerging
   program demands.
• The large amount of lending and fast disbursement was possible because of the existence of
   mature country programs and systems for payment in Mexico.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

In addition to preparing a completion report (See Annex 7), the Borrower made comments on the
document drafted by Bank staff. These comments have been reflected in the document.

(b) Cofinanciers: N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders; (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society) N/A




                                                  18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                 Actual/Latest
                                         Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
           Components                                            Estimate (USD
                                          (USD millions)                                    Appraisal
                                                                    millions)

Support to the continuation of
                                                 1,498.50             1,498.90
Oportunidades Program (original)
Technical Assistance to
                                                     1.50                 1.10
Oportunidades (original)
    Total Project Cost (before AF)               1,500.00             1,500.00
Support to the continuation of
Oportunidades Program (including                 2,743.00             2,744.00                100%
AF)
Technical Assistance to
                                                     3.80                 2.80                 74%
Oportunidades (including AF)
    Total Project Costs (with AF)                2,746.80             2,746.80                100%

Front-end fee IBRD                                   3.76                 3.76
Front-end fee IBRD (AF)                              3.20                 3.20
        Total Financing Required                 2,753.76             2,753.76                100%




(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                               Type of                                    Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                   Estimate       Estimate
                                             Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                            (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                     13,255.00      20,084.65 151%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                2753.76          2753.76     100%
and Development




                                                    19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Support to the Continuation of the Oportunidades Program (US$2,744
million of loan financing)

Resources of the Bank Loan were used to finance cash transfers to Oportunidades beneficiaries.
The Project financed the bi-monthly cash payments for five cash transfers (nutrition, transfer to
compensate for the international food price increases, transfer to compensate for spending on
energy, education and school supplies) within the full structure of cash transfers to families. This
first part of the annex contains additional information on Component 1 outputs as they relate to
expansion of the Program, number of beneficiaries receiving transfers, and changes in the
structure of payments that happened during the time the Project was supporting the Program.


Box 1. Changes in structure of payments

Over time, the Program introduced some changes to the structure of payments to adjust the Program to
emerging needs as well as attempts to streamline the operations. Between 2009 and 2013 two changes
were introduced:

    •   The introduction in 2010 of an additional cash transfer for families with very young children
        (Apoyo Infantil) to protect food consumption for children during the crisis, with no changes in
        co-responsibilities for beneficiaries
    •   The merging in 2012 of the energy transfer into the health and nutrition transfer (with no
        changes in co-responsibilities for beneficiaries since the co-responsibility for the energy transfer
        was already tied to health and nutrition)

             Structure of Oportunidades Cash Transfers (US$/month), 2009 and 2014
                                                                       Amount
  Transfer
                                                               2009               2014
  Education                                                  $9.2-58.4          $13-81*
  Health and Nutrition**                                       $13.8               $24
  Energy**                                                                          $3.9                       -
  Nutrition complement (Alimentario Complementario)***                              $8.5                     $10
  Children (Infantil)****                                                           -                        $9
  Youth with Oportunidades                                                  $254.7 (one time)         $350 (one time)
  Elderly                                                                        $19.4                      $26

  Maximum amount educational transfers                                                                    $96/$176*
  Maximum amount transfers                                                                               $130/$210*

  *Depending on gender, age, grade level;** As of January 2012 the energy grant was consolidated into the health and
  nutrition grant; *** previously: Vivir Mejor (Living better); **** previously: Vivir Mejor Infantil (Living better –
  children)
 Source: Project PAD and Oportunidades Operating Rules, 2014




                                                             20
Expansion and coverage. Since the Project started in 2009, coverage of Oportunidades
increased from 5.2 million families to 5.9 million when the Project closed in December 2013, for
a total of almost 26 million beneficiaries. The largest expansion came at the time of the
additional financing in 2010 when the Program incorporated 600,000 additional families within
the first three months of the year. Although two-thirds of the new households came from semi-
urban and urban areas, there was also an important expansion to incorporate additional small,
isolated, and vulnerable rural areas. During this expansion the Bank, together with the IADB,
maintained close dialogue with the program supporting key operational areas important for
maintaining program effectiveness. For example, the Bank supported improvements in targeting
and the strategy to move as many beneficiaries of PAL as possible into Oportunidades as health
services were strengthened to respond to demands generated by the program. 21

Table 1. Oportunidades Cash Transfers (US$ Million)

                           2008
                                            2009             2010           2011            2012           2013
                       (retroactive)
Program Total              2,656            3,046            3,897          4,171          4,053           4,201
World Bank                   450             692             607             97             280            618
World Bank (as               17%             23%             16%             2%             7%             15%
% of total)

Table 2. Coverage of Oportunidades (2009-2013)

             Beneficiaries         2008         2009            2010           2011           2012           2013
Program Families               5,049,206      5,209,359      5,818,954      5,827,318      5,845,056      5,922,246
             Individuals      23,360,971 23,565,952 26,012,418 25,701,574 25,631,340 25,718,586




21
  The target population of Oportunidades and PAL are households classified as extremely poor and those with
insufficient resources to invest on human capital (education, nutrition and health) of its members. PAL beneficiaries
are selected in areas where the supply of services is not running in full capacity, meaning that Oportunidades co-
responsibilities are not implementable. It is important to minimize the risk of overlap of the two programs, in order
to avoid situations in which neighboring households in similar conditions are registered in different programs. The
Bank supported the work done to develop minimum standards of health services provision in the context of
Oportunidades that could then be used to progressively transition as many families as possible from PAL to
Oportunidades as services became available. The Project itself did not finance PAL.




                                                        21
Box 2. Changes in targeting.

In 2010 a law was introduced stating that CONEVAL guidelines to define, measure and identify
poverty had to respond to multiple dimensions, and no longer could be limited to a measure of
income/consumption. These guidelines were to be followed by social programs targeting the poor. At
the same time, following the expansion of the Program to urban areas, targeting errors were
increasing given that the targeting instrument had been initially developed and optimized for rural
areas. A small technical group with representatives of Oportunidades, the Secretaria de Desarollo
Social (SEDESOL), CONEVAL, the World Bank and the IADB was created to pursue the objective
of reformulating the targeting instrument for Oportunidades. The group worked well, with full
ownership of the Government and strong technical support provided by World Bank staff. The result
was a stronger and more flexible targeting instrument that responded to the new vision of
multidimensional welfare developed by CONEVAL, and potentially allows social programs with
different objectives to use the same targeting instrument. The new instruments improved targeting
outcomes and allowed to more easily take into account the need to introduce changes in eligibility
criteria, for example due to price changes that impacted welfare status.


Component 2: Technical Assistance to Oportunidades (US$2.8 million of loan financing).

Component 2 financed activities aimed at providing technical support in the following areas, as
set out in the original Project document:
    (a) Strategies to increase quality and accessibility of health and education services used by
        Oportunidades families, such as the pilots on early childhood interventions and on parent
        participation in secondary schooling, as well as the studies looking at the role of
        education quality and school performance of Oportunidades beneficiaries;
    (b) Strategies to increase self-sufficiency of Oportunidades families, such as the review of
        the program’s effects on health, nutrition, education, labor market outcomes in rural areas
        after ten years of intervention;
    (c) Actions to further improve the design and operation of Oportunidades, such as the studies
        on time limits in the Program for beneficiaries and new schemes of transfers/co-
        responsibilities, the development of an Oportunidades’ specific module for the National
        Health and Nutrition Survey (ENSANUT) to track beneficiaries’ outcomes, and the study
        on pertinence of services offered to indigenous population in urban areas;
    (d) Implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP).

This work was identified by the client and was part of their external evaluation agenda, a long-
standing feature of the Oportunidades program for which it is widely recognized. Table 3
summarizes key outputs (and results) under this component in each of these focus areas, and key
results are summarized here.

Supporting an already well-established evaluation agenda and mechanism meant that the Bank
needed to get up to speed quickly on previous work and the priorities which had been identified
for future work in the short-run. Similarly, the program faced the difficult task of coordinating an
extensive area of engagement both externally with the Bank and the IADB, and internally with
SEDESOL, Ministry of Education and Health, and CONEVAL. After some initial adjustments,
coordination improved through better communication among all actors and an agreed set of
procedures. The Government, with inputs from the Bank and the IADB, developed a flowchart

                                                  22
ratifying the changes in process for setting, implementing and approving work conducted in the
context of the evaluation agenda. These changes were formalized in 2013.

The TA was extensive and covered multiple technical areas. The Bank’s efforts to provide
substantive technical inputs in a timely fashion were significant. This was challenging at times,
considering that multiple vehicles for engagement (PKS, NLTA) were ongoing in parallel to the
Project itself, led and implemented by largely the same team even though it successfully
managed to tap into specific expertise from other Bank staff when needed (e.g., in areas such as
targeting and education).




                                               23
Table 3. Activities, results and comments for Technical Assistance financed under Component 2

Studies and objectives               Results and recommendations                                                                    Comments, Lessons-learned,
financed by the Project                                                                                                             Follow-up


                (a) Strategies to increase quality and accessibility of health and education services used by Oportunidades families
Study on Early Childhood             •   Findings suggest that adding PEI-CONAFE initiatives provides additional, measurable,       Follow up survey was delayed, and
Development (ECD) Program                benefits to the nutritional status and development of Oportunidades beneficiaries’         some budget cuts affected
PEI-CONAFE in synergy with               children.                                                                                  implementation of PEI-CONAFE, but
Oportunidades (Impact                •   No large differences appear in the way the program is implemented and effective in         the follow-up survey was finally
evaluation-IE) (2010)                    indigenous versus non-indigenous communities.                                              conducted in 2012. PEI-CONAFE
                                     •   The baseline and follow-up surveys show extremely high levels of malnutrition,             proved to be an effective delivery
Objective: assess the impact of          highlighting nutrition and early childhood development as a key area of intervention for   mechanism for behavior change in some
adding Early Childhood                   Oportunidades in rural areas                                                               of the most vulnerable communities.
Stimulation (through the PEI-                                                                                                       The Program is considering Early
CONAFE program) on nutrition,                                                                                                       Childhood Development as a key pillar
health, and development of rural                                                                                                    of its redesign strategy.
indigenous children benefitting
from Oportunidades.
Study on the role of community       •   No evidence of impact of training for vocales on relationship between community            The pilot was under implementation
committees in fostering parent           committees/vocales and schools, perception of effectiveness of vocales, types of           during a year in which Oportunidades
participation in secondary               participation of parents in school                                                         made substantial changes in its
schooling through synergies with     •   Some important implementation problems: high rotation of vocales (90%) and lack of         community committees. The higher than
the Apoyo a la Gestion Escolar           information on how training was received.                                                  average rotation of vocales created
(AGE) program (IE) (2010)                                                                                                           severe challenges for the success of the
                                                                                                                                    pilot. The pilot was a follow up
Objective: improve quality of                                                                                                       intervention, expanding a model that
education and outcomes for                                                                                                          had been successful at the primary level
Oportunidades beneficiaries                                                                                                         to secondary school. The lack of results
studying in Telesecundaria schools                                                                                                  is likely due to its implementation
by fostering parent participation                                                                                                   problems, suggesting need for better
with the help of Oportunidades                                                                                                      planning both of the intervention and its




                                                                             24
Studies and objectives                  Results and recommendations                                                                     Comments, Lessons-learned,
financed by the Project                                                                                                                 Follow-up

community committees (and                                                                                                               evaluation.
vocales 22).

Complementary study on the              •   Findings suggest that quality of education services is strongly correlated with education   The results provide an important
quality of education services that          gaps – where quality is higher Oportunidades students gap versus non-Oportunidades          analytical base to support the Program’s
the Program offers its rural                students is lower                                                                           efforts to get more schools with
beneficiary population (2009)           •   Schools attended by Oportunidades students are disadvantaged in their access to             Oportunidades beneficiaries in the PEC
                                            important inputs and services                                                               and AGE programs, as well as efforts
Objectives: Expand on the previous      •   Controlling for variables of context, there is no difference between the test scores of     with PRONABES to enable more
study which analyzed scores on              Oportunidades students and other students                                                   Oportunidades students to receive
standard tests by type of school for    •   Factors associated with good quality (“eficaz”) are leadership, good working                tertiary level scholarships, contributing
Oportunidades students by: (i)              relationships among teachers, teacher stability, expectations of the teachers and           to higher expectations by both students
taking advantage of supplementary           students, and infrastructure                                                                and teachers.
data sources to identify factors that   •   The study highlights some recommendations to improve quality of education in
can impact learning outcomes (and           rural/poor areas: training for school directors; introduction of agreements between
gaps), controlling for the                  authorities, schools and parents to maintain school infrastructure/equipment; prioritize
socioeconomic context and school            programs that incentivize permanence of teachers in rural schools; increase quality of
model (“eficaz” and                         supervision of rural schools; strengthen teacher training for telesecundaria; prioritize
“compensatoria”), (ii) understand           investment in schools with highest concentration of Oportunidades beneficiaries and
and analyze the availability of             reverse decrease in budget allocations for compensatory schools; increase the
inputs and the education processes          number/type of available education transfers for lower and upper secondary
by school model type.
Study on the performance of             •   21% reduction in the Spanish learning gap in primary school among Oportunidades             Together with other education studies
Oportunidades beneficiaries in              beneficiaries                                                                               on quality of services, it suggests that
standardized education tests –          •   55% reduction of the gap in secondary schools                                               lower quality of schools strongly affects
ENLACE (2012)                           •   Access to inputs and schooling processes/modalities is inversely associated with the        education outcomes for Oportunidades
                                            percentage of students who are Oportunidades beneficiaries: where the latter proportion     beneficiaries. The study also suggests
                                            is higher, the quantity and quality of inputs/resources is lower. Between 2008 and 2011,    that it is important to continuously
                                            the change in distribution of these inputs/resources was small.                             monitor school performance/outcomes



22
  Vocales (world in Spanish) refers to Oportunidades beneficiaries’ mothers selected by the community to support the program implementation at local level.
The vocales main role is to ensure that the needed communication related to the program is provided to all beneficiaries in a timely manner.



                                                                                 25
Studies and objectives                  Results and recommendations                                                                   Comments, Lessons-learned,
financed by the Project                                                                                                               Follow-up

                                        •   School modalities that show the largest performance gaps - CONAFE schools and             for Oportunidades children as this
Objective: (i) assess and analyze           indigenous schools – did not report positive changes. In these modalities, however, the   represent an important instrument to
changes in education gaps among             difference between beneficiaries’ and non-beneficiaries’ outcomes is very small, while    help target interventions to improve
beneficiaries between 2008 and              socioeconomic conditions among students are not as great as they are in other school      education quality.
2011 through ENLACE results, as             modalities
well as the performance of schools      •   Greatest changes could be observed for schools using the Telesecundaria modality
as a function of the percentage of          (83.2% reduction in the gap) and technical secondary schools (44.4% reduction in gap)
students in each; (ii) analyze access       while in general secondary the reduction was 39.2%.
to inputs and different school
modalities of different schools.
                                                (b) Strategies to increase self-sufficiency of Oportunidaades families
Summary document compiling              The report summarizes findings of external evaluations on health, nutrition, education, and   The summary document was very
results of the external                 labor market outcomes. For the first time, the roles of quality of services and of the        important to consolidate and
evaluations of Oportunidades            Program’s National Coordination were reviewed. The study includes an integrated, thematic     communicate the results of a vast
during 2007-2008                        analysis of both the results and recommendations of the studies. Some key results were the    number of evaluations/studies to non-
                                        following:                                                                                    experts and decision makers – and to
Objective: The evaluation agenda        • Reduced malnutrition in children < 2 years old                                              facilitate follow-up on the findings and
for 2007-2008 included a set of 17      • Improved cognitive skills in children age 7-11 years old that had participated in the       recommendations.
studies which focused on the                 Program since they were infants
quality of services (health,            • Increased use of health services (especially preventive)
education, and National                 • Extended the education trajectory by as much as 1 year for youth enrolled when young,
Coordination) and the                        and as much as 2 years when compared to previous generation
identification of the effects of        • Greatest changes in health and education could be observed in women and indigenous
Oportunidades in rural areas after           populations
10 years of intervention. The           • In many instances, longer permanence in the Program was associated with better health
objective was to compile and                 and education outcomes
integrate the most significant
                                        • The Program still faces significant challenges in reaching its objective of breaking the
findings and recommendations of
                                             intergenerational cycle of poverty. Nutrition, health, education and job insertion
the 2007-2008 external evaluation
                                             indicators for the target population still lag significantly behind
agenda and assess results achieved
                                        • Program implementation and services have improved greatly over time despite the
and challenges remaining for the
                                             significant expansion in coverage. These operational improvements have been possible
Program.
                                             in large part thanks to the implementation of the “esquema de microzonas” and the
                                             strengthening of the Social Network. These innovations have improved knowledge of
                                             the Program among beneficiaries, though significant communication barriers remain
                                        • Greater coordination between Oportunidades and other national, State and local

                                                                                26
Studies and objectives                   Results and recommendations                                                                       Comments, Lessons-learned,
financed by the Project                                                                                                                    Follow-up

                                             programs offering complementary services would help create conditions for the
                                             economic development that would support efforts to break the poverty cycle in what are
                                             often much marginalized areas in which the program operates.
                                             (c) Actions to further improve the design and operation of Oportunidades
Study on education trajectories          •   69% of beneficiaries surveyed had transitioned to secondary, with no difference by            The methodology chosen for the study
of minors of Oportunidades                   gender                                                                                        and the timeframe in which it was
families (2010)                          •   56.6% of beneficiaries surveyed also completed lower secondary, and 10% transitioned          conducted did not allow drawing
                                             to upper secondary                                                                            conclusive results. This experience
Objective: observe and analyze the       •   Over 80% of beneficiaries had a continuous record of school participation/receipt of          highlighted the need for improvements
educational trajectories of                  conditional transfers over the years                                                          in planning and supervision of studies.
Oportunidades beneficiaries after        •   In general, being part of the program in earlier ages was correlated with greater             However, a significant result of this
the first 10 years of participation in       progress/completion rates – especially for girls.                                             effort is that the administrative data that
the Program, in particular               •   Some persistent external factors negatively affect outcomes: discrimination and abuse         was collected represents an historical
examining why some are not                   on the part of teachers/school authorities, either with children themselves or the parents.   baseline against which student follow
receiving the education transfers.                                                                                                         up could be carried out in the future.
Study on Program time limits             •   Over time, household socioeconomic conditions improve, but at a declining rate                The analysis fed into the Program’s
and new schemes of transfers             •   On average, rural and urban households are no longer eligible after 24-32 and 18-27           strategy for recertification and
and co-responsibilities (2010)               years in the Program, respectively                                                            contributed to the determination of a
                                         •   Evidence suggests that rising above the existing eligibility thresholds does not              permanent verification phase” for those
Objective: review trajectories of            eliminate the risk of falling into poverty in the future                                      households around the eligibility
beneficiary families particularly        •   Different eligibility thresholds were estimated for rural and urban households, as well as    threshold. The study also contributed to
relating to their socio-economic             conditions that would determine eligibility for a “permanent verification phase” for          the discussions on the appropriate target
characteristics; identify and suggest        those households around the threshold.                                                        population for the Program and to later
transparent and objective criteria       •   Possible criteria to re-certify beneficiaries were identified, with their respective pros     efforts to analyze the gaps in secondary
for periodic re-certification of             and cons.                                                                                     school attendance.
beneficiaries, in line with program      •   Program should primarily be directed at families with children. The Program needs to
objectives.                                  make efforts to improve secondary school attendance rates of beneficiaries and to
                                             improve targeting results.




                                                                                  27
Studies and objectives                Results and recommendations                                                                      Comments, Lessons-learned,
financed by the Project                                                                                                                Follow-up

Study on social mobility of young     •   Positive impact on social mobility: 40% of youth beneficiaries have a higher qualified       The major impacts on social mobility
Oportunidades beneficiaries from          employment relative to the head of household (47% have similar employment).                  were through the effects on education,
rural households (2010)               •   Inclusion of migrants in the dataset improved the overall impact on social mobility (and     demonstrating the importance of paying
                                          on salaries). In the previous studies impact observed was limited                            attention to the gaps in secondary
This study builds on a similar        •   Upward social mobility is higher for migrants and women                                      school attendance. Results were worse
analysis carried out in 2008 that     •   Length of permanence in the program is not correlated with higher upward social              for those who remained in the same
pointed at differences in the             mobility, but education is (about 7.4% of mobility is explained by education                 locality, demonstrating the challenges of
characteristics of youth that had         incentivized through the Program).                                                           breaking the inter-generational
moved from those who had              •   The greatest impact of the program on social mobility comes through education. In this       transmission of poverty when the
remained in their localities. The         sense, while attendance is important, increasing the quality of education is critical        resident localities are economically
study was not able to incorporate     •   Controlling for education and migration effects, youth that have participated in the         depressed – marginalized, rural areas in
additional data on youth who had          program receive up to 44% more earnings than those that have not and the impact is due       Mexico. The results fed into the
moved but when better data                to the program.                                                                              discussion on inequality of access to
became available the Program                                                                                                           tertiary education and the role of
updated the previous analysis.                                                                                                         scholarships, as well as more broadly on
Objectives: (i) determine whether                                                                                                      the importance of developing a
length of participation in the                                                                                                         productive agenda for youth in
program has an impact on social                                                                                                        challenging context of highly
mobility (as determined by a higher                                                                                                    marginalized localities. The
qualified job relative to head of                                                                                                      Government is increasing attention to
household) and (ii) determine if                                                                                                       this area.
youth who have participated in the
program have higher labor earnings
relative to those that did not
participate


Oportunidades module developed        •   Positive impact of Oportunidades over the last 15 years in reducing prevalence of            In order to target and reduce
for the National Health and               stunting and anemia. However, it remains important to strengthen interventions for           beneficiaries’ health and nutrition gaps
Nutrition Survey (ENSANUT)                groups with the highest nutritional vulnerability that still show high stunting and anemia   through improvements in coverage and
2011-2012                                 rates                                                                                        quality of health supply, it is important
(2011)                                •   Positive impact/efforts of Oportunidades in increasing health insurance affiliation: 7 out   to keep monitoring outcomes. Given the
                                          of 10 beneficiaries report affiliation to Seguro Popular. Coverage is greater in poorest     Program’s large national coverage,
                                          two quintiles, progressive impact                                                            being able to conduct a national survey,
                                      •   Utilization rates of preventive services higher among beneficiaries than non-                occasionally strengthened with
Objective: Obtain strategic               beneficiaries – and lower prevalence of drinking/smoking among adolescent                    Oportunidades specific sub-modules, is
information relative to the impact        beneficiaries than non-beneficiaries. Vaccination rates are around 90% for                   key to this effort. In this case, results

                                                                               28
Studies and objectives                Results and recommendations                                                                    Comments, Lessons-learned,
financed by the Project                                                                                                              Follow-up

of Oportunidades on key health            Oportunidades children under 5                                                             once again provide useful evidence to
and nutrition indicators.             •   Exclusive breastfeeding rates are higher among beneficiaries than non-beneficiaries ,      support efforts to improve quality of
                                          though overall prevalence remains low                                                      services for Oportunidades’
                                      •   Quality of services remains a challenge, with roughly 10% of beneficiaries who prefer      beneficiaries.
                                          to use private health services even though comparable public service is free of charge.

Study on profile of indigenous        •   Prejudice of institutions regarding indigenous people’s ability/capacity to benefit from   The Program incorporated some of the
population and pertinence of              the Program remains a problem                                                              recommendations in the revised
services offered by Oportunidades     •   Language barriers prevented beneficiaries from properly understanding information          proposal for the urban health attention
to indigenous population in               necessary to comply with co-responsibilities, and there was evidence of complaints         model (MAS - Modelo de Atención en
urban areas (2010)                        from indigenous beneficiaries who were dropped from the Program for reasons that           Salud). Findings also provided inputs
                                          were never explained to them                                                               for the development of the Indigenous
Objective: Prepare a profile of the   •   Lack of familiarities with written language and certain processes creates challenges in    People’s Communication Plan (PCI).
indigenous population in urban            fulfilling necessary paperwork (one key example is related to migration to rural-urban
areas, analyze the cultural               migration and associated paperwork)
pertinence of Oportunidades for       •   Non-indigenous beneficiaries reported better perception of quality of health services
urban indigenous population and           than indigenous beneficiaries. Communication and cultural barriers in the provision of
identify areas of opportunity to          health services are persistent
improve the attention and services    •   Discrimination within the education systems is frequent, and little or no recognition of
for indigenous Program                    the need to take into consideration different culture/language
participants in urban areas.          •   Need to coordinate and work closely with institutions responsible for indigenous
                                          population.
                                                                     (d) Implementation of the IPP
Evaluation of the 2010                •   The PCI provides an innovative instrument to communicate health prevention                 Roughly 30% of total beneficiaries are
indigenous people’s                       messages in a culturally appropriate way                                                   currently making use of materials,
communication plan (2011)             •   Some differences between federal proposal and state level implementation in some           which have been successfully revised
                                          states                                                                                     following the evaluation. The Program
Objectives: In response to evidence   •   Greater participation of frontline staff working closely with communities would            and health authorities plan to further
from previous external evaluations        improve the design of materials and the selection of topics.                               expand coverage of the PCI to include
on the linguistic and cultural        •   At the moment the main audience of the materials developed are women in reproductive       additional languages, and are also
barriers diminishing the                  age and children < 5, this should be expanded                                              considering innovative ways to measure
effectiveness of the Program’s        •   The materials should also be translated into more languages/variants so they could be      the impact of the plan on behavior
workshops on health practices,            used in more states. Multilinguismo , with several languages spoken in one area, and       change.
during 2009-2010 the National             presence of Spanish speaking staff, represents an issue.
Commission for Social Protection
in Health designed and

                                                                               29
Studies and objectives                 Results and recommendations        Comments, Lessons-learned,
financed by the Project                                                   Follow-up

implemented an Indigenous
Peoples’ Communication Plan
(PCI) The purpose of this study
was to validate the materials,
methodology, themes and design
content of the PCI to ensure that
were achieving their intended
effect and to identify any obstacles
to its implementation at the
community level, including the
adaption and use by Program staff.




                                                                     30
The technical assistance provided in support of the evaluation agenda through the Project as well
as the related knowledge services (Table 4) helped create the evidence base for a dialogue with
the other social sectors on the importance of improving the quality of service provision for
beneficiaries to increase the impact of the Program and improve outcomes. This critical area of
engagement was supported through technical assistance and policy dialogue during supervision
to strengthen coordination with other social programs, and is reflected in the indicators for the
second PDO. Since activities in support of these objectives were conducted by the team itself as
part of implementation support, they do not come through in the description of activities
financed by the Project and are summarized here instead:

   •   Education quality: the Bank TA and policy dialogue supported stronger linkages with the
       existing school-based management program to improve the quality of public schools, the
       Programa Escuelas de Calidad, or PEC. The objective was to improve the targeting of
       PEC (participation in which is voluntary and demand-driven) by supporting participation
       of Oportunidades schools in the Program. The number of Oportunidades schools
       participating in PEC increased during Project implementation, from 24,955 (23 percent)
       in 2006 (baseline), to 28,944 (25 percent) at the time of Project completion.

   •   Access to tertiary education: the Bank TA and policy dialogue supported mechanisms to
       increase the coverage of the National Scholarship Program for Higher Education
       (PRONABES) and early interventions among Oportunidades students. During
       implementation, the number of Oportunidades beneficiaries with PRONABES
       scholarship increased from 36,941 (15 percent) to 68,181 (20 percent). In the case of
       tertiary education also the percentage of coverage of Oportunidades population increased
       in the program.

   •   Health: the Bank TA supported dialogue with the health sector to ensure quality and
       supply of services provided to beneficiaries during program expansion. In particular, the
       Bank supported the increase in coverage of beneficiaries by the health insurance Seguro
       Popular in collaboration with the existing Bank health project.

   •   Finally, the Bank supported the dialogue on issues such as the development of standards
       for sharing data, strengthening the model for state-level coordination, and the needs for
       changes in the operating rules of various programs to improve coordination and synergies
       with Oportunidades. This dialogue is not immediately evident by looking at the list of
       key outputs or indicators, but should be mentioned in this context.

The establishment of sustainable connections with other programs proved challenging. Progress,
though satisfactory, was less than had been initially hoped. The challenge was to work with
programs such as PEC and PRONABES – in the education sector – and Seguro Popular – in the
health sector – that impact the quality and coverage of services for Oportunidades beneficiaries.
The Bank and the Government expected to leverage synergies within the World Bank financing
itself (across the social protection, health and education teams which all had active projects in
Mexico at the time) to better work with the central sectoral agencies on increasing their coverage
of Oportunidades beneficiaries. While these represented an especially challenging area for


                                               31
engagement, it was also one that became increasingly meaningful, as evidenced by the fact that it
is now the focus of a new World Bank Loan.

         Table 4. Related Engagements, supporting Technical Assistance outputs
Programmatic Knowledge                   NLTA: Improvements in CCT               Programmatic Knowledge
Services: Social Protection for          Governance SFLAC (P125712)              Services: Strengthening Social
the Poor (P116169)                                                               Protection System (P129698)

Revision of the targeting                Entry-Exit of beneficiaries. Four       Re-designing Oportunidades for
instrument for Oportunidades-            related studies looking at households   increased impacts (promoting
technical guidance for the analysis      that have exited Oportunidades as a     employability) – technical guidance
and decision making process              result of a Recertification process,    document summarizing diagnostic
                                         and the possible determinants           and options for redesign of the
                                         explaining the changes (or lack of)     program
                                         in eligibility status
Improvements in Service Quality          Inter-sectoral coordination             Broadening options for skills
through culturally adapted               • Review of the experience of           development and employability of
communication                               Oportunidades in coordinating        Oportunidades youth – a study of
• Video on early childhood                  with other national programs         the alternative education institutions
   nutrition                             • Initiatives to strengthen             that youth attend, identifying
• Validation of training materials          coordination between                 potential operational changes that
   on Oportunidades Program for             Oportunidades and state-level        the program could put in place to
   the health and education sectors         social strategies and programs       increase its impact and coverage
• Communications strategy to
   orient and link secondary school
   graduates to complementary
   services, including the design of a
   new web page for youth
   (www.vas.gob.mx)
Strategic Review for                                                             Model for the coordination of
Oportunidades. Updating the long-                                                activities between the local and
term strategy for updating the                                                   national levels – Technical note
analysis of the characteristics of its                                           to explore options to improve the
potential beneficiaries (target                                                  program’s modalities and
population)                                                                      mechanisms for coordination and
                                                                                 articulation with other programs at
                                                                                 the local level
Support the development of state-                                                Learning from past adjustments
level service coordination models                                                in the implementation of the
• Review of state experiences on                                                 Oportunidades targeting
   service coordination                                                          mechanism – Technical Note
• Impact evaluation of Contigo
   Vamos por Mas, the Guanajuato
   state program which aims to link
   Oportunidades beneficiaries with
   complementary services
                                                                                 Qualitative analysis of the
                                                                                 trajectories of families who have
                                                                                 left the program following the re-
                                                                                 certification of beneficiaries –
                                                                                 Technical note
                                                                                 The role of Oportunidades in the
                                                                                 response to natural disasters –
                                                                                 Case study

                                                          32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Since the Mexican Government first introduced Oportunidades (originally, Progresa), social
assistance spending in Mexico has increased significantly, and so has its efficiency.
Oportunidades has expanded its coverage significantly, but gradually, as budgetary feasibility
was always a key consideration. The Government progressively scaled down (and eliminated)
food subsidies and replaced them with targeted transfers through Oportunidades and other social
programs that have proven impact. The Program continues to be financially sustainable.

At the time of appraisal, no economic or financial analyses were conducted. The following
factors – which remain relevant today – were considered in determining the efficiency of
the Project at the time of preparation and then Additional Financing:
    • The body of evidence on Oportunidades, based on the numerous external evaluations
       conducted since the program first started in 1997, shows significant positive impacts of
       the Program on household consumption, school enrollment and attendance, health
       prevention/access to health and nutrition – all of which are a part of the Project’s
       development objectives
    • The most recent cost-effectiveness analysis 23 was done monetizing the results of these
       impact evaluations, but was limited to returns to schooling. These simulations show
       mostly positive results, with positive cost/benefit ratios ranging from 1.4 – 7.1, except in
       some cases using a 10 percent discount rate. These results can be considered a lower
       bound on the expected benefits since they do not consider the impacts on health and
       nutrition (or consumption more generally).
    • The Project supported improvements in targeting that improved targeting efficiency to
       the poor. These lead to further improvements in Program effectiveness since studies have
       shown larger impact of CCTs among households that are poorer at the baseline. 24

Moreover, the Project supported increases in coordination of social policy which are
expected to further increase efficiency and returns from investment:
   • Evaluations have shown that an important factor behind the persistent gaps in outcomes
       for Oportunidades beneficiaries is the lower quality of services received. Greater
       coordination with education and health sectors to improve the coverage and quality of
       services – as evidenced by the efforts to increase coverage of PEC and PRONABES – for
       Oportunidades population is thus expected to have led to greater impacts on final
       outcomes for the target population.
   • The unification of the targeting methodology across social programs, and the
       consolidation of the Beneficiary Registry of Oportunidades so that it can be used also by
       other programs administered by SEDESOL are important steps taken by the Government
       that are expected to progressively generate increased efficiency in overall social spending
       in Mexico.



23
   Parker, S., Behrman, J. (2008) “Seguimiento de adultos jóvenes en hogares incorporados desde 1998 a
Oportunidades: Impactos en educación, pruebas de desempeño.”
24
   Conditional Cash Transfers: Reducing Present and future Poverty (World Bank, 2009), p. 136.


                                                       33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                     Responsibility/
             Names                                 Title                   Unit
                                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Juan Carlos Alvarez              Senior Counsel                           LEGES
Patricia M. Bernedo              Senior Program Assistant               LCSHS-DPT
Diana Isabel Cardenas            Social Protection Economist            LCSHS-DPT
Maria E. Castro-Munoz            Consultant                               LCSHH
Barbara Hemetsberger             Consultant                             LCSHS-DPT
Theresa Jones                    Lead Operations Officer                LCSHS-DPT
Alessandra Marini                Senior Economist                       LCSHS-DPT
Felix Prieto Arbelaez            Senior Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
Dena Ringold                     Lead Economist                           AFTSW
Manuel Antonio Vargas Madrigal   Lead Financial Management Specialist    MNAFM
Supervision/ICR
Barbara Hemetsberger             Consultant                             LCSHS-DPT
Alessandra Marini                Senior Economist                       LCSHS-DPT
Gabriel Penaloza                 Procurement Specialist                   LCSPT
Phillippe George Pereira
                                 Senior Social Protection Economist      AFTSW
Guimaraes Leite
Evelyne Eugenia Rodriguez Ortega Consultant                               LCSEN
Juan Carlos Serrano-Machorro     Sr Financial Management Specialist       LCSFM
Maria Concepcion Steta Gandara Sr Social Protection Specialist          LCSHS-DPT

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                   USD Thousands (including
                                               No. of staff weeks
                                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY09                                                  30.18                    222,082.40
FY11 (AF)                                              4.65                     39,794.41
                                 Total:               34.83                    261,876.80
Supervision/ICR
FY09                                                   0.85                      2,280.20
FY10                                                  49.61                    239,234.67
FY 11                                                 27.29                    149,649.69
FY 12                                                 14.13                    106,744.41
FY13                                                  19.79                    155,497.99
FY14                                                  31.44                    113,815.15
                                 Total:              143.11                    767,222.10




                                                    34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                      35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                       36
Annex 7. Borrower's ICR 25 and/or Comments on Draft ICR


      I. Appraisal of the objective, design, operational experience, and execution of operations

          a. Objective

          The Project had the following identical objectives under Loan Agreements 7708-MX and
          7968-MX:
              Increase capacities in health, nutrition, and education of poor families through
                human capital investment by promoting regular health check-ups, improving health
                status, and raising school enrollment and attendance.
              Build sustainable connections between Oportunidades and other social programs of
                the Government of Mexico in order to improve health and education outcomes for
                Program participants.

          For the attainment of these objectives, both loans had the same two components: (a) direct
          support for Oportunidades beneficiary families; and (b) technical assistance through
          contracts for consultant services.

          The Project’s objectives were aligned with each of the components of the Human
          Development Opportunities Program (Programa de Desarrollo Humano Oportunidades –
          PDHO), referred to here as Oportunidades. Clearly related to the Program’s main overall
          component, its first objective was addressed through conditional cash transfers aimed at
          encouraging families to make the human capital investments needed in order to break the
          intergenerational cycle of poverty. Its second component involved a series of consultancies
          with the Oportunidades National Coordination that provided direct evidence contributing
          to: (a) improved quality and increased access to health and education services for the
          beneficiary population; (b) development of strategies for increasing the self-sufficiency of
          beneficiary families; (c) improvement of the design and operation of Oportunidades, and
          (d) implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Plan (Plan Indígena).

          It can be said that the Project’s first objective-component alignment has been satisfactory.
          The mechanism that defines Oportunidades and has enabled it to achieve the outcomes
          reported in various external evaluations has been the conditions attached to the cash
          transfers, whereby certain behaviors have been expected of the beneficiary families,
          including behaviors aimed at improving school attendance, food availability, and the health
          and nutritional status of the younger members of these families.

          The second objective-component alignment is considered to have been sufficient for the
          development of pilot-scale activities related to the design, planning, and evaluation of
          coordination and linking mechanisms proposed under the Project’s second objective.
          However, it is felt that this second alignment has been limited in terms of guaranteeing the


25
     The original document, in Spanish, is in the Project files.


                                                             37
implementation and continuity of these coordination and linking activities, which have
only been designed, planned, and implemented on a pilot scale. This observation raises
concern especially when the activities in question are carried out with entities or agencies
that do not participate directly in Oportunidades operations and are not party to the
commitments assumed within the framework of the Loan Agreement.

b. Design

Oportunidades is a conditional cash transfer program. According to its Operational Rules,
project execution involves three sectors: social development (Ministry of Social
Development, through the Oportunidades National Coordination), education, and health.

The institutional arrangements agreed upon for execution of the Oportunidades Project
were appropriate for ensuring overall Project execution because they provided for
participation by the sectors involved in operating Oportunidades pursuant to its Operating
Rules. The Rules, in turn, are part of the Operating Manual for project execution, which
also includes provisions governing financial administration and contracts, as well as the
Indigenous Peoples Plan, prepared in accordance with World Bank policy.

With regard to arrangements for ensuring that project execution complies with the Bank’s
policy for preventing and combating fraud and corruption in projects financed by IBRD
loans and IDA credits and grants (Guidelines dated October 15, 2006), the following
specific provisions were established for ensuring the Bank that this policy will be observed,
though under specific conditions that are explained in the following paragraph.

During the course of Project execution under the Oportunidades Financial Support
Category, the National Coordination had specific agreements with external agents (called
settlement institutions) with which it subcontracted the service of delivering the cash
transfers associated with financial expenditures under this heading. Since these contracts
were not legal documents derived from the language of the lending agreement (i.e., legal
covenants) but rather documents signed in the normal course of Oportunidades operations,
the Bank did not have (nor could it have had) any legal relationship that would permit it to
audit or directly review the Project’s records as required under the anti-corruption policy.
Moreover, the financial resources granted by the Bank do not flow through the National
Coordination but rather are dispensed directly by the Federal Treasury in the form of
disbursements to cover eligible expenditures. Given these conditions, In order to comply
with the anti-corruption policy, specific arrangements were established which included
notifying the settlement institutions that, according to the policy, they are considered
“channels” or “recipients” for the flow of funds identified with the financial resources that
the Bank has granted for the Project, albeit indirectly.

Key Project Indicators

As indicated in the ICR (Section 3.2, Achievement of Project Development Objectives),
the choice of some of the key project indicators was somewhat ambitious, based on the
Bank’s interest in tracking progress in activities or interventions outside the direct control

                                          38
of the National Coordination—for example, indicators related to the Quality Schools
Program (Programa de Escuelas de Calidad—PEC), the National Program for Higher
Education Scholarships (Programa Nacional de Becas para la Educación Superior—
PRONABES), and implementation of a pilot Early Childhood Intervention Program
(Programa de Educación Inicial—PEI) under the National Council on Educational
Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo—CONAFE). This last indicator
was felt to be especially important because, even though there were funds allocated for an
appraisal of this intervention under the Consultation Services Category, by the end of the
Project it had not been possible to scale up or expand early education interventions in the
Oportunidades beneficiary population, either because CONAFE was unable to serve this
population or because there was no specific provision in the legal language of the Project
documents that required CONAFE to take action in light of the findings from the appraisal
that was funded for the Project.

The lesson learned from this experience, or at least a suggestion for future technical
assistance operations, is to involve all stakeholders that are in a position to ensure, and to
commit to taking the necessary steps for, successful project execution starting from its
design and early preparation, whether as co-executors or as participating entities that have
a commitment or a mechanism for ensuing their participation in and responsibility for
project activities.

Operating Costs Category

Loan Agreement 7968-MX (Additional Financing) included one more Investment
Category in addition to those established under Loan Agreement 7708-MX—namely,
Operating Costs to fund the administrative costs (salaries) of National Coordination
personnel responsible for project administration. However, this type of expenditure was not
accepted as fundable with financial resources granted by the Bank, inasmuch as it
corresponded to the Ministry of Treasury and Public Credit. Therefore the funds allocated
for this category had to be transferred to the Oportunidades Financial Support Category.
This situation did not pose any risk to project execution: the transferred funds were
disbursed, and the amount involved was very small relative to total funding (0.04%).
However, this situation represents a lesson that may be taken into account in future
assistance operations and financing by the Bank, since it is important to include, as part of
a project, funds that may be identified in the budget as possibly being covered by resources
from an external financing source.

Indigenous Peoples Plan

The Indigenous Peoples Plan prepared for the Project calls for several actions that fall
under the responsibility of the health sector—for example, the Indigenous Communication
Plan (Plan de Comunicación Indígena)—and the education sector (e.g., the inclusion and
participation of Oportunidades beneficiaries in PEI-CONAFE. However, no mechanism
was provided to guarantee fulfillment of these actions by the sectors in question. In the
case of the Indigenous Communication Plan, the health sector took responsibility and
carried out the activities specified in the plan as part of its overall commitment to

                                          39
  Oportunidades, but the PEI-CONAFE intervention was never implemented, much less
  expanded to include Oportunidades beneficiaries.

  A similar lesson, or suggestion for future technical assistance operations, can be learned
  with regard to the Project’s key indicators—namely, to involve all the stakeholders that
  might be in a position to ensure and commit to implementation of the actions needed in
  order to ensure successful project execution.

  c. Operational Experience and Execution of Operations

  According to the National Coordination (the Project’s implementing agency), the
  operational experience and execution of operations were satisfactory except for the change
  in the budgetary allocation of funds for operating the educational component (in which
  expenditures eligible for the Oportunidades Support Category were identified), which
  starting in fiscal year 2012 were assigned directly to the Ministry of Public Education and
  not to CONAFE.

  The decision to change the budgetary allocation of the resources for the Oportunidades
  educational component was taken by the education sector without considering its
  implications for project execution and without prior consultation with the other
  stakeholders that the borrower had involved in execution and supervision of the Project
  (the Ministry of Treasury and Public Credit, in particular its International Financial Affairs
  Unit (Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda), Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., and
  the administrative unit in the National Coordination responsible for administration of the
  Project). As a result, it was necessary to amend the Loan Agreement (7968-MX–
  Additional Financing), and the process was not completed until October 2012—in other
  words, 10 months after the start of the fiscal year.

  It is important to point out that the amendment to Loan Agreement 7968-MX (Additional
  Financing) was also necessary because of changes in the system for the payment of cash
  transfers under the Oportunidades Support Component. Starting in 2012, the National
  Coordination was only allowed to use the services of a settlement institution (Banco del
  Ahorro Nacional and Servicios Financieros, S.N.C.) to transfer cash support to
  Oportunidades beneficiaries. Once this change was reflected in the legal language of the
  loan agreement, it did not constitute a risk for the maintenance of an adequate financial
  administration system for the Project.


II. Evaluation of the operational outcome in terms of the agreed objectives

  First Development Objective

  The funds granted by the Bank did not flow directly to the fiscal year budget authorized for
  operating the Oportunidades Program. Instead, they were received by the borrower (in the
  form of disbursements once the eligible expenditures had been made) through Nacional
  Financiera S.N.C. and then transferred to the Federal Treasury.

                                            40
Still, indirectly, the funds granted by the Bank contributed to meeting the objective of
building the capacity of Oportunidades beneficiaries in the areas of health and nutrition,
since the funds were associated with expenditures already made under the Oportunidades
Investment Support Category and disbursed accordingly.

Table 1 in Annex 2 of the ICR shows the proportion represented by Bank funding of cash
transfers to Oportunidades beneficiaries.

Second Development Objective

With regard to the second of the Project’s objective-component alignments mentioned in
the previous section, a number of consultancies addressed the four broad topics considered
in the Technical Assistance Component of the Project. The work performed under these
consultancies is described below.
     An external evaluation reviewed two pilot-scale projects aimed at improving the
       quality of health services and education and increasing access by the population
       served. Some of the projects implemented and evaluated were: (a) Community
       Promotion Committees (Comités de Promoción Comunitaria—CPCs), the School
       Management Support Program (Programa de Apoyo a la Gestión Escolar—AGE)
       under CONAFE, and distance secondary education (Escuelas Telesecundarias)
       aimed at promoting the participation of Oportunidades parents in secondary
       schools under the AGE program; and (b) early child development and nutrition for
       children under 4 years of age, designed to promote the participation Oportunidades
       families with children under 5 years of age in the CONAFE Informal Early
       Education Program (Programa de Education Inicial No Escolarizada—PEI-
       CONAFE]) to ascertain whether this connection actually raises levels of nutrition,
       health, and cognitive, motor, speech, social, and emotional development in rural
       children who are Oportunidades beneficiaries.
     Two other consultancies also focused on rural areas and studied (a) temporary
       employment and new support schemes for beneficiary families based on shared
       responsibility; and (b) intergenerational social mobility of Oportunidades
       beneficiaries in rural areas. These consultancies yielded objective information for
       developing strategies to raise the level of self-sufficiency and improve the well-
       being of Oportunidades beneficiaries.
     Consultancies on the following topics sought to obtain evidence to identify
       improvements in the design and operation of Oportunidades: (a) school
       performance of Oportunidades children and young people in rural areas; (b)
       compilation of data from the 2008 external appraisal of Oportunidades; (c) study of
       an Oportunidades program module in the National Health and Nutrition Survey
       2011-2012 (Encuesta Nacional de Salud y Nutrición—ENSANUT); and (d)
       performance of Oportunidades scholarship winners in the ENLACE test, including
       changes between 2008 and 2011 in basic and lower secondary education. These
       consultancies gave the Oportunidades National Coordination the elements it needed
       to update its assessment of the population served in terms of the main indicators of
       health, food availability, nutrition and education, as well as objective elements for

                                         41
               (a) updating the diagnosis of the problem that the program addresses; and (b)
               developing a proposal to adjust the program design in order to address the changes
               identified in said diagnosis.
              The following two consultancies were part of the activities under the Indigenous
               Peoples Plan: (a) a study of the beneficiary indigenous population in urban areas;
               and (b) an appraisal of the Indigenous Communication Program (Programa de
               Comunicación Indígena—PCI] implemented by the health sector. The results of the
               first consultancy gave the Oportunidades National Coordination a clear
               characterization and an overall diagnosis of the indigenous population living in
               cities and metropolitan centers, as well as an understanding of the challenges
               involved in providing care for this population group in urban areas. The second
               consultancy helped to improve the cultural appropriateness of the PCI materials,
               images, and messages on health and nutrition being used by the health sector in
               predominantly indigenous localities in the southern part of the country.

       The results of these consultancies helped enable the Oportunidades National Coordination
       to identify areas for improvement in the design and operation of the Program’s
       interventions in the areas of food availability, health, nutrition, and education. In keeping
       with national law, 26 the recommendations and areas for improvement identified in these
       appraisals and studies were analyzed, sorted, and classified for further action and reflection
       with a view to improving the Program’s design or operation.

     III. Evaluation of borrower performance and the project implementing agency during
        preparation and execution of operations, with special emphasis on lessons learned
        that could be useful in the future

       According to the National Coordination, borrower performance and its own performance
       were considered satisfactory during the preparation and execution phases of operations,
       with the exception of CONAFE participation, given that it dropped out of the project
       because of the change in the budgetary allocation of funds for the for the educational
       component of the Oportunidades Program beginning in fiscal year 2012. It is important to
       mention the participation of Nacional Financiera as the settlement agent designated by the
       borrower to administer and supervise project execution, especially its work with the
       National Coordination in the handling of contracts, disbursements, and overall project
       supervision.

     IV. Evaluation of World Bank performance during project preparation and execution
       of operations, the effectiveness of its relations, and lessons learned



26
  The National Council on Social Development Policy Evaluation [Consejo Nacional de Evaluation de la Política
de Desarrollo Social CONEVAL], working together with the Secretariat of the Treasury and Public Credit and the
Secretariat of Public Administration, establishes the norms governing the process of improving federal social
programs through its mechanism for monitoring areas subject to improvement identified in reports and evaluations
of federal programs under Federal Public Administration. Information on the Oportunidades Program is available at:
http://evaluacion.oportunidades.gob.mx:8010/es/asm/asm2011.php


                                                       42
     According to the National Coordination, the Bank’s performance during the preparation
     and execution of operations was satisfactory, as was the participation of the project team,
     the specialists in financial administration and procurement, the legal team (during
     preparation of the legal language of the two loan agreements, 7708-MX and 7968-MX),
     and the experts in disbursements.

     During project execution, the Bank’s team was prompt in responding to questions, requests,
     and normal situations, supervising the operation on an ongoing basis and ensuring
     attainment of the development objectives.

  Other Lessons Learned

     Consultancies and appraisals on a broad variety of topics generated evidence for the
     effectiveness of some of the interventions tied to other federal programs and the
     performance of Oportunidades in the key indicators of its three components. The National
     Coordination identified the following lessons learned from its technical assistance
     activities:
          The importance of implementing actions for early childhood stimulation in order to
             strengthen the Oportunidades results already observed in terms of the nutritional
             status of young children and making a positive impact on the various dimensions of
             child development, especially in the indigenous population;
          The importance of strengthening the training activities of Community Promotion
              Committees to improve the effectiveness of the messages being communicated to
              the beneficiary population;
          The progress made by Oportunidades in improving school attendance by children
              and young people, noting that this progress has not yet been reflected in substantial
              improvements in the indicators of social mobility, especially in rural areas;
          The depth of the poverty in which most of the beneficiary families live and how it
              impacts on the time required to remain in the program in order to raise people out
              of this condition;
          The progress already observed in the Oportunidades population in the indicators of
              food availability, health, and nutrition, as well as the improved grades of
              schoolchildren; and
          Elements that require: (a) appropriate cultural attention in working with indigenous
              people living in urban areas; and (b) more focused attention in existing
              interventions, especially in the area of health.

While the information and analyses emanating from these consultancies, appraisals, and studies
have been of great value for designing, planning, and improving the coordination and ties that
the Oportunidades National Coordination relies on, it is felt that it would also be valuable to
have consultant activities that are more directly related to the implementation and execution of
coordination and linking mechanisms.




                                               43
Completion Report of the Borrower in Spanish




                                         44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                       53
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank (2004), Country Partnership Strategy with the United States of Mexico FY05-08,
Report No.28141-ME.

World Bank (2008), Country Partnership Strategy with the United States of Mexico FY08-13,
Report No.42846-MX.

World Bank (2014), Country Partnership Strategy with the United States of Mexico FY14-19,
Report No. 80800-MX.

IEG, The World Bank Groups’ Response to the Global Economic Crisis, Phase II (2012).
World Bank (2009), Conditional Cash Transfers: Reducing Present and future Poverty (2009)

World Bank (2010), Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit Latin America
and Caribbean Region, Recent Trends and Forecasts of Poverty in Mexico, October 2010

World Bank (forthcoming), Understanding the Poverty Impact of the Global Financial Crisis in
Latin America and the Caribbean, edited by Margaret Grosh, Maurizio Bussolo, Samuel Freije,

Parker, S., Behrman, J. (2008) “Seguimiento de adultos jóvenes en hogares incorporados desde
1998 a Oportunidades: Impactos en educación, pruebas de desempeño.”

World Bank (2005), Mexico: School Based Management Project (P115347), Report No. 33894-
ME, Project Appraisal Document, November 14, 2005, Washington, D.C.

World Bank (2005), Mexico: Tertiary Education Student Assistance APL Project (P085593),
Report No: 3 1727-ME, Project Appraisal Document, November 15, 2005, Washington, D.C.

World Bank (2010), Mexico: Support to the Social Protection System in Health Project
(P116226), Report No.52142-MX, Project Appraisal Document, February 23, 2010, Washington,
D.C.

Study on Early Childhood Development (ECD) Program PEI-CONAFE in synergy with
Oportunidades (Impact evaluation-IE) (2010)

Study on the role of community committees in fostering parent participation in secondary
schooling through synergies with the Apoyo a la Gestion Escolar (AGE) program (IE) (2010

Complementary study on the quality of education services that the Program offers its rural
beneficiary population (2009)

Study on the performance of Oportunidades beneficiaries in standardized education tests –
ENLACE (2012)




                                               54
Summary document compiling results of the external evaluations of Oportunidades during 2007-
2008
Study on education trajectories of minors of Oportunidades families (2010)

Study on Program time limits and new schemes of transfers and co-responsibilities (2010)

Study on social mobility of young Oportunidades beneficiaries from rural households (2010)

Study on profile of indigenous population and pertinence of services offered by Oportunidades
to indigenous population in urban areas (2010)

Evaluation of the 2010 indigenous people’s communication plan (2011)




                                              55
MAP




      56
