CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 582 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Thirteenth Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 26, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 582 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Thirteenth Railway Project)
BETWEEN
0
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 26, 1975
0


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 26, 1975, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
has previously financed the foreign exchange cost of six projects forming a part
of the program for rehabilitation, modernization, exp,msion and increase in capacity
of the railways owned and operated by the Borrower, and has entered into loan
agreements with the Borrower dated August 18, 1949 (No. 171N); July 12, 1957
(Nos. 1671N, 1681N, 1691N and 1701N); September 16, 1958 (No. 2071N);
July 15, 1959 (No. 2331N); July 29, 1960 (No. 2621N) and October 13, 1961
(No. 2981N) providing for such projects;
(B)   the Association has previously assisted in financing the foreign
exchange cost of six projects forming part of the programs for rehabilitation,
modernization, expansion and increase in capacity of the railways owned and
*       operated by the Borrower, and has entered into development credit agreements
with Jie Borrower dated March 22, 1963 (No. 361N); October 26, 1964
(No. 671N); June 29, 1966 (No. 881N); September 24, 1969 (No. 1621N);
January 24, 1972 (No. 280IN) and December 21, 1973 (No. 4481N) providing
for such projects;
(C)   the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in financing a
thirteenth railway project; and
(D)   the Association is willing to make a development credit available for
such thirteenth railway project on the terms and conditions hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of' the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said


﻿4
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely, that paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5.   the term Borrower means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  '"Railways" means the railways owned and operated by the Borrower
and includes all railway property, equipment and materials of the Borrower;
(b)   "MMTC" means Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation Limited, a
canalizing agency of the Borrower; and
(c)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred ten million dollars
($1 10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿5
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1977 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 1 and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing
September 1, 1985, and ending March 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct the
operations of the Railways with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, financial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods, works and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives, for the purposes related to the Credit, to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods, works and
services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain passenger fares and freight rates, and shall take all other
action as may be necessary or appropriate, so as to provide to the Railways net
revenue sufficient to enable the Railways to meet out of internally generated
resources, for each fiscal year after 1975/76, all operating expenses and dividend
payments on capital-at-charge, and in respect of the fiscal year 1975/76, all
operating expenses and 85% of the dividend payable.
For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         the term   "net revenue" means the revenue accruing from the
operation of the Railways excluding any net revenues or losses
which may result from the operation of mass rapid transit
systems in the principal cities of India. Such revenues or losses
from mass rapid transit systems, if included in the Railways'


﻿7
budget, will be separately shown therein and in the financial
accounts of the Railways;                    I
(ii)       the term  "operating expenses" means all ordinary working
expenses of the Railways, and appropriation for the Depreciation
Reserve Fund and for the Pension Fund of the Railways; and
(iii)      the term "capital-at-charge" means the capital provided by the
Borrower to the Railways and appearing as such in the Railways'
accounts.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the appropriation for
the Depreciation Reserve Fund of the Railways mentioned in subparagraph (ii)
of paragraph (a) of this Section shall be not less than Rs6,500 million in the
aggregate for the fiscal years 1974/75 through 1978/79 and that said appropriation
shall be not less than Rsl,300 million for any of the fiscal years 1976/77 through
1978/79. The foregoing provisions of this paragraph supercede the agreements
between the Borrower and the Association set forth in Section 4.02(c) of the
Development Credit Agreement (Twelfth Railway Project) dated December 21,
1973.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date October 24, 1975 is hereby specified for the purpdses
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02(a) of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the pUrposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions,


﻿8
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representativje
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                       Dollar Equivalent)
(1)  Components and materials required                     61,600,000
for the manufacture and mainte-
nance of electric locomotives,
diesel locomotives, electric
multiple units, coaches and
wagons
(2)   Equipment and materials for track                    12,000,000
renewals, bridge works, line
capacity works and electrical
works
(3)  Equipment for signalling and                           1,400,000
telecommunication schemes
(4)  Equipment and materials for                            4,200,000
electrification schemes
(5)  Plant and machinery                                    3,300,000
(6)  Other railway equipment and                            3,000,000
material; technical services
approved by the Association
(7)  Non-ferrous metals                                     4,500,000
(8)   Items procured under license                         20,000,000
or for standardization, con-
sisting of:


﻿10
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                            Dollar Equivalent)
(a)   Diesel locomotive components
including rectifiers and
control equipment, crank
shafts, cylinder head
castings, turbo-chargers,
compressors, fuel booster
pumps, pistons
(b)   Electric locomotive components,
including air-blast circuit
breakers, tap-changers, trac-
tion motor components, switch-
gear, transformers, recti-
fiers, gears, pinions, brake
equipment and compressors
(c)   Electric multiple unit com-
ponents, mainly traction
and brake equipment
TOTAL          110,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.


﻿11
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category, except
Category (8), will be insufficient to finance all expenditures in that Category, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category except
Category (8), to the extent required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion
of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures.
4.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the investment scheduled to be made by the Railways for
the period from April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1977, estimated at approximately
$980 million equivalent and the importation of necessary spare parts for
maintenance of locomotives and rolling stock amounting to approximately $32
million equivalent (CIF).
The Project includes the acquisition of rolling stock, other railway materials
and equipment and technical services, which will enable the putting into service
during the Project period of about 350 locomotives, about 300 electric multiple
units, about 1,500 coaches and about 20,000 wagons (in terms of four-wheelers),
as well as the provision of track renewals and bridge works, line capacity works
and signalling, electrification, new lines, workshops, machinery, plant and staff and
passenger amenities.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1977.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, equipment or materials shall be
procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October
1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   (a)    With respect to any contract for equipment or materials to be financed
under Category (8) of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may place contracts through
negotiation provided that:
(i)         the terms and conditions of negotiated contracts conform to
the Railways' standard form of contract; and
(ii)       the Association's prior approval of such standard form    of
contract (and any modification thereof) shall have been
obtained.
(b)   With respect to any contract for non-ferrous metals to be financed
under Category (7) of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower, which for the purposes of this
paragraph includes MMTC, may place contracts, without prior approval of the
Association, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
(c)   With respect to any contract for equipment or materials, except for
those under paragraphs (a) and (b) above, with a foreign currency component
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, the Borrower shall use
procurement arrangements in accordance with its usual business practices.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Except as provided for in paragraph A.2 of this Schedule, with respect to
all contracts for equipment or materials with a foreign currency component
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:


﻿14
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request except that, with respect to procurement of steel, when
a potentially acceptable bid has been received with a validity period of twenty-one
days or less, the Borrower may proceed with evaluation of bids and award of
contract but only, (i) after informing the Association by cable of the names of
bidders and identifying the bids with a validity period of twenty-one days or less,
and (ii) in the absence of a negative response from the Association within three
working days of receipt of said cable by the Association. In respect of contracts
for steel awarded under the above exception, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended or actual award, as the case may be, is inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish


﻿15
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, and
upon request from the Association, the analysis of bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


