Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7250
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 760-LA)
May 16, 1988
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recinients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAT.ENTS
US$1.00 = Liberation Kips (K) 200
K 1.00 = US$0.005
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB         - Australian Development Assistance Bureau
APSP         - Agricultural Production Support Project
ERR          -  Economic Rate of Return
FAO          -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FTO          -  Farm takeoffs
Lao PDR      - Lao People's Democratic Republic
MOA          - Ministry of Agriculture
NBL          -  National Bank of Laos
NEO          -  New Economic Order
OFD          -  On-farm development
O&M          -  Operation and Maintenance
RMB          -  Bank Regional Mission in Bangkok
SAPE         -  State Agro-Processing Enterprise
SBL          -  State Bank of Laos
UNDP         -  United Nations Development Programme
VPCIS        - Vientiane Prefecture Irrigation Construction
Society
VPIOMLCE     - Vientiane Prefecture Irrigation Operation,
Maintenance and Land Clearing Enterprise
WUGs         - Water users groups
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.SA.
Offce ad Ovectr.Ge.Uf1
Op,atuwm RAluteuan
May 16, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: Lao People's Democratic Republic
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
(Credit 760-LA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Lao People's Democratic Republic
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project (Credit 760-LA)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No further evaluation of this
project by the Operations Evaluation Department has been made.
Attachment                                              .-;;  - 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be use by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World 3ank authoriation.



FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 760-LAO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface                    ........  .........
3asic Data Sheet ......        ........... ......................   ii
Evaluation Summary      ...... . ..... .                                vi
I.   SUMMARY 1 . *  *     * ...  .   *........* 
II.    INTRODUCTION ..............5
III.    PROJECT FORMULATION .........7
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND DEVELOPMENT .................,           9
V.    IMPACT                .                  .                         18
VI.    ECONOMIC REEVALUATION ...... . ........... ....... ....... ......   23
VIII.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ..........                               25
VIII.    IDA PERFORMANCE  .....* ...o ..   ..........                       26
IX.    CONCLUSIONS   ..                                                   27
Tables
1.  Actual and Appraisal Total Project Costs
2.  Project Costs
3.  Utilization of Credit Proceeds
4.  Financial Farm Gate Prices of Outputs and Inputs
5.  Crop Inputs Per Ha
6.  Financial Crop Budgets
7.  Farm Budge:s
8.  Prices of Weaners and Pigs
9.  Pig Production and Sales
10. Operating Income of the 600-Sow Unit
11. Farm Budget for the Small Pig Producer
12. Project Expenditures of Gravity and Pump Schemes
13. Without Project Cropped Areas and Paddy Production in Irrigation Component
14. With Project Cropped Areas and Paddy Production in Irrigation Component
15. Pump Operation and Maintenance Costs for 300 Ha
16. Projected Estimates of Economic Farm Gate Prices of Main Outputs and
Inputs
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



17. Estimates of Economic Farm Gate Prices of Outputs and Inputs
18. Economic Costs ani Benefits Streams for Cravity Schemes
19. Economic Costs and Benefits Streams for Pump Schemes
20. Economic Costs and binefits Streams for the Pig Multiplication Component
Maps: IBPD No. 20962
IBRD No. 12883R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 760-LAO)
PREFACE
This is the project completion report (PCR) for the Lao PDR
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project for which Credit 760-LA
was approved in December 1977 for the sum of US$8.2 million. After two
ex.ensions of one year each, the Credit was closed on September 30, 1985.
A balance of US$39,942 was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Region based on a review of the Staff
Appraisal Report, No. 1593a-LA, dated December 12, 1977; the President's
Report, No. P-2185-I, dated December 14, 1977; the Development Credit
Agreement dated January 5, 1977; supervision reports and various project-
related Bank files.
The PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments on February 25,
1988.  No comments were received.
The project has not been the subject of an audit by the Operations
Evaluation Staff.



- ii -
PROJZCT CON2LETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 760-LAO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
I. KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal       Actual or Current
Item                                           Expectation            Estimate
Total Project Cost (USs million)                   11.87               14.20 /a
Overrun (Z)                                            -                   19 a7
Credit Amount (US$ million)                         8.20                8.20
Disbursed                                         8.20                8.16
Cancelled                                            -                0.04
Repaid to December 1986                                                  -
Outstanding December 1986                            -                   -
Date Physical Components Completed
(a) Irrigation                                   6/83                 6/85 /b
(b) Pig Multiplication                          12/80                 6/83 7i
(c) Rice Intensification                        12/80                 6/81
Proportion Completed by Above Date (Z)
(a) Irrigation                                     100                 100
(b) Pig Multiplication                             100                  50 /c
(c) Rice Intensification                           100                  95
Proportion of Time Overrun (Z)
(a) Irrigation                                       -                  31
(b) Pig Multiplication                                                  33
(c) Rice Intensification                            -                   13
Economic Rate of Return (Z)
(a) Whole Project                                  25                  8.4
(b) Irrigation                                     29                  9.0
(c) Pig Multiplication                             24                 13.5
Financial Performance                                  -                Fair
Institutional Performance                                               Fair
/a Apparent overrun due to conversion of local expenditures at official
exchange rate of $1 - K10.
/b Completion of major works.
7T Component scaled down by 50X.



- iii -
II. OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                    Actual or Est.
Item                                     Plan        Revised          Actual
First Mention in Files                      -             -                 -
Government's Application                    -             -               /76
Negotiations                                -             -             11/77
Board Approval                              -             -             12/77
Credit Agreement Date                       -            -               1/78
Effectiveness Date                          -             -             4/78
Closing Date                             9/83         9/85               9/85
Borrower                               Government of Lao PDR
Executing Agency                      Ministry of Agriculture
Fiscal Year of Borrower              January 1 to December 31
Follow-on Project                 Agricultural Rehabilitation and
Development Project II
Credit Number                                  924-LA
Amount (US$ million)                            10.4
Credit Agreement Date                           6/79



- iv -
III. MISSION DATA
No. of    No. o0.               Date of
item                         Month/Year    days       persons   Manweeks   report
Iden.iPrep.                        /76        -          -          -            -
Appraisal                        10/76        -          4          -        12/77
Sub-total
Supervision /a            I       5/78       10          3         8.4        7/78
of           II     11/78        10          3        8.4        1'79
III      5/79        13          2        6.8        6/79
It                  IV     10/79         8          3         7.2      11/79
of                   V      4/80         5          1         1.8       6/80
VI     11/80      6/17 /b       4        6.4        1/81
VII      5/81      7/21 Tr       5        9.0        6/81
VIII     11/81      6/14 ri       5        8.0       12/81
Ix      5/82      6/16 76       2        3.2        5/82
X      6/83      5/14 7i       3        4.2        6i83
XI      2/84      6/17 Tr       6        9.6        5/84
XII      5/84      3/1117        1        0.8           -
XIII      9/84      3/14 76       4         3.2      11/84
XIV     12/84       2/5 76       1        0.6           -
XV      2/85      3/17 Th       4        3.2        3/85
XVI      6/85      3/10 76       1        0.8           -
XVII      9/85      5/17 76       3        3.6       10/85
XVIII     11/85       1/4 7i       1        0.4            -
XIX      1/86       1/4 76       1        0.4           -
/a  Data not available on short missions (unreported) by staff of World Bank
Regional Mission in Bangkok during period 1980-82.
/b  First number refers to no. of days spent on project; second number refers
to total number of days spent in country.



v -
IV. COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)             Kip (K)
Year
Appraisal Year Average               US$1 = K 200
Intervening Year Average              US.$1   K 25
Completion Year Average               US$1   K 35
Kip per US$
Official /b                    Private
Official /a       commercial.       Market       remittance
1978               -                   -             25              -
1979               4                  14             25              -
1980              10                  14             25              -
1981              10                  14             60              -
1982              10                  30            105              -
1983              10                 35             140            108
1984              10                 35             250            108
1985              10                  35            400            189
1986              10                  35            410            270
/a   Used for IDA disbursements.
/b   The Government uses an accounting rate of K 95 since 1985.



- vi -
IROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
L1.0 PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 760-LAO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.1       This project, the Bank Group's first operation in Lao PDR, was
prev --ed just after the cointry had recovered from a period of hostilities and
when food was in short supply. Its objective was to alleviate the constraints
and increase food procuction in Vientiane Prefectu:re and Province.  The
project comprised 3 components: small-scale irrigation development, pig
multiplication and rice production intensifiLation.
1.2       The first component was designed to provide irrigation and drainage
services for some 8,320 ha of permanent paddy land. Individual schemes
ranging from 100 - 300 ha in size were to be constructed or rehabilitated: 13
new schemes would be constructed to cover a total area of 3,900 ha (including
9 gravity schemes, 2,700 ha, and 4 pump schemes, 1,200 ha); and 35 schemes
would be rehabilitated (all gravity and covering a total area of 4,420 ha,
including 16 schemes, 1,920 ha, where headworks and distribution systems had
been inadequately maintained; 16 schemes, 1,600 tha, with temporary earth and
brushwood dams; and 3 drainage control systems, 900 ha, requiring realignment
and strengthening of drainage channels, new flood control gates and flood
protection embankments). The gravity schemes were to be supplied by the
tributaries of Nam Ngum River in the foothills of vientiane Plain and the pump
schemes by the Nam Ngum River itself. In the wet season, there would be full
irrigation coverage, while in the dry season 30X of the gravity area, i.e.
2,136 ha, and 502 of the pump area, i.e. 600 ha, would be irrigable, yielding
a total irrigable area of 2,736 ha.
1.3       The pig multiplication component would establish 10 pig
multiplication units of 120 sows each in separate locations for the annual
production of 14,400 weaners for sale to small pig producers and Government
employees. Purebred breeding stock was to be imported for the establishment
of a selection program to provide imuproved breeding stock to the
multiplication units. Feeds were to be supplied, prepared from imported
concentrates and local supplies of broken rice, rice bran and maize.
Government programs to ensure production of maize and rice bran sufficient to
meet the needs of the project were also included.  Prices of feed, piglets and
pigmeat were to be set at levels sufficient to ensure adequate returns to the
pig multiplication units and producers, Credit for pig feed was to be
provided through the National Bank of Laos (NBL).
1.4       The rice intensification component comprised the improvement of
physical facilities at Salakham Research Station, research and development of
superior rice varieties and cultural techniques, rice seed production and
provision of an improved agronomic package, including chemical inputs, to some



- vili -
2,500 ha of la.;d under satisfactory water management. A revolving fund was to
be established from the sale of inputs and credit was to be provided through
NBL. To promote the use of the improved seeds, prices were to be set at
l-vels equivalent to that of ordinary paddy.
1.5       All three components included the provision of technical assistance
financed by UNDP and executed by FAO. Five advisers were to be provided: (a)
an irrigation engineer for design and construction; (b) an irrigation engineer
for irrigation management; (c) a rice production management specialist; (d) a
specialist in pig housing design and construction; and (e) a specialist in pig
husbandry and production management.
1.6       Project implementation started very slowly due to delays in the
appointment of subproject directors and in the arrival of the technical
advisers, which affected planning and programming of the project. There was
little leadership and coordination at the central level. Two major
constraints were the acute shortage of skilled manpower in the country and the
bighly centralized decision-making process. These factors highlighted the
very weak ab orptive capacity and the specific need for external technical
assistance. This was also the first IDA project for Laos and both local
project staff and expatriate technical advisers were not familiar with IDA
protedures. In addition, the advisers could not communicate adequately in
English or French. As a result, procurement and project implementation were
delayed by about two years.
1.7       Increased assistance from IDA supervision missions and the World
Bank Regional Mission in Bangkok (RMB), and in particular, the implementation
of a "Coordination Advice and Logistic Support" project in 1980, two years
after project start-up, helped to ease procurement and disbursement
problems. This project, financed by UNDP and executed by IDA over two years
until 1982, supported the establishment of a "Bureau of Coordination" in
Vientiane to provide coordination and management assistance to project
staff. Transfer of IDA project supervision responsibility to RMB in 1983
enabled missions to be held at short and regular intervals and to provide
increased technical assistance, which were critical factors in improving
project implementation. Communications with project agencies were improved,
allowing problems to be promptly addressed and resolved.
1.8       Both the irrigation and the pig multiplication components were
revised during project implementation. Hydrological surveys carried out after
project start-up had shown that dry season streamflow for the selected gravity
schemes was lower than expected at appraisal. Difficulties of access to the
gravity schemes and the establishment of pumping stations under bilateral
assistance shifted Government priority to pump schemes. Since these schemes
were situated along the perennial Mekong River, dry season water supply was
not a constraint. The closeness of the pump schemes to Vientiane made more
effective use of scarce management resources and improved access to markets.
Consequently, more pump schemes were constructed than gravity schemes.
Construction work covered only main and secondary canals, control structures
and concrete farm take-offs. For gravity schemes, civil works covered both
headworks and main distribution systems.



- viii -
1.9       To date, 10 gravity schemes covering 2,250 ha, and 16 pump schemes
covering 5,500 ha, or a total irrigable area of 7,750 ha, have been
completed. This wet season area compares with 8,320 ha estimated at
appraisal. Full development has not yet been reached as a remaining small
number of secondary canals and concrete structures will not be completed
before 1988. In the 1986 dry season, 1,020 ha of gravity scheme and 2,780 ha
of pump scheme, or a total area of 3,800 ha, was irrigated, against the
appraisal full development estimate of 2,730 ha. At full development
scheduled for 1988, it is expected that 1,090 ha of gravity scheme and 3,570
ha of pump scheme, or a total area of 4,660 ha (170% of appraisal estimate),
would be irrigable in the dry season. Yields in the wet season of 1985
averaged 3.1 tons/ha for pump schemes and 2.3 tons/ha for gravity schemes, as
compared to 1.8 tons/ha for the without project situation. Actual 1985 dry
season yield increases ranged between 1.3 and 1.6 tons/ha, against the
appraisal estimate of 1.2 tons/ha.
1.10      The pig multiplication component was also revised during project
implementation. Instead of ten units of 120 sows each to be established in
separate locations, faciiities were constructed for 600 sows at only one site
(Tha Ngone). Fear of diseases and the need to make more effective use of
scant management resources and physical facilities prompted this change. Pure
breeds were imported from Thailand to establish the breeding herd. A modern
production system suitable for large production units was adopted. However,
it was capital-intensive, requiring a higher level of investment in housing
and equipment per sow than estimated at appraisal. Thus, only half of the
appraisal objective for the number of breeding sows has been achieved.
Technical assistance and training enabled local project staff to master
production techniques and become technically self-sufficient.
1.11      By 1983, the herd had reached its full revised herd composition of
600 sows; 6,023 weaners (84% of the appraisal estimate for 600-sows unit) were
sold that year. Sales in 1986 dropped to 5,500 weaners (76% of appraisal
estimate) mainly due to problems of feed supply. Shortage of foreign
exchange, when the amount provided under the project had been used up, led to
an interruption of feed supply and the pruuuction of low quality and
unbalanced feed from poor local materials. Government programs for the
produccion of maize and cassava became effective only around 1986. The
technical performance of the unit was thus affected. Full development of the
unit, when the feed supply problem is resolved, is forecast for 1988.
1.12      Production of piglets of improved quality and performance for
fattening by small producers to increase porkmeat production was a sound
objective. However, a production system which relied entirely on purebred
stock and high quality feeds was perhaps premature. The improvement of local
breeds was also a feasible alternative. The success of this component now
depends upon the continuation of the livestock feed factory programs to
produce cheap and good quality feeds based on local materials. Supported by
an on-going IDA-assisted project, local maize production and procurement by
Lhe feed factory have increased significantly since 1986, as well as
procurement of soybeans from the south to be used as protein concentrate. The
capability of the factory is also being strengthened under the project by the
addition of a rice bran stabilizing plant and a soya bean oil extraction



- ix -
plant. Until recently, local maize production programs failed due to low
official producer prices for maize. Similarly, low official prices for
weaners had adverse effects such as chronic operating losses for the
multiplication farm. To cut down on these losses, the farm, at one stage,
retained up to 40% of its production of piglets for fattening but this
activity is being discontinued. Fattening on the ferm aggravated the feed
supply problem by further reducing the limited supply of feed to the breeding
stock. The revolving fund envisaged at appraisal for the purchase of feed by
small producers was not established.
1.13      In spite of star -up delays, the rice intensification component was
successfully completed. Civil works and the provision of equipment and
materials to strengthen Salakham Research Station were carried out. Research
work at the Station led to the development of improved rice cultivation
techniques. Notably, two technical packages (full and limited) were developed
and have now been extended countrywide. The selection of improved rice
varieties and the seed production program carried out under the project
resulted in the implementation of an improved seed distribution program.
Chemical inputs were supplied to cover a total irrigated area of about 4,726
ha, or 105% of the appraisal estimate.
1.14      After two extensions of one year each, the Credit was closed on
September 30, 1985. A balance of US$39,942 was cancelled from the total
Credit of US$8.2 million.
1.15      Due to the several changes in the official commercial exchange rate
for the Kip during project implementation, total project costs have been
estimated in US$ for comparison with appraisal estimates. Application of
prevailing rates to convert local costs into US$ gave an inflated total
project cost estimate of US$14.2 million, against the appraisal estimate of
US$11.9 million, as a result of the over-valuation of tile Kip. If local costs
were valued at market exchange rates, the total project costs estimate would
fall to about US$11.0 million.
1.16      Calculation of the economic impact of the project has been difficult
due to the lack of proper records, failure in establishing any monitoring and
evaluation mechanism and the absence of good indicators for determining the
foreign exchange rate of the Kip.
1.17      The re-estimated ERR at full development for the entire project is
8.41, compared to 25% estimated at appraisal. The ERRs for the irrigation and
pig multiplication components are 9.0% and 13.5%, respectively. The gravity
and pump schemes have ERRs of 15.9% and 6.6%, compared with appraisal
estimates of 40% and 12%. Although benefits were also expected for the rice
intensification component, no economic analysis was carried out at appraisal
or after project completion.



1.18     Main Issues
(a) The setting of official prices well below market prices
discouraged production of pigs and maize;
(b)  The lack of government commitment towards the provision of credit
and inputs was a constraint to agricultural development;
(c) Potential benefits from irrigation investments were not fully
realized due to the absence of adequate O&M policies;
(d) Particular difficulties of operating in a country with low
absorptive capacity -ad a subsistence economy result in the need
to design simple projects, with modest objectives and scopes; and
(e) The Bank must recognize the important role played by supervision
missions for this kind of project and provide higher supervision
coefficients.



- 1 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCPATIC REPM3LIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 760-LA)
Project Completion Report
I. SUMMARY
1.1       This project, the Bank Group's first operation in Lao PDR, was
prepared just after the country had recovered from a period of hostilities and
when food was in short supply. Its objective was to alleviate the constraints
and increase food production in Vientiane Prefecture and Province. The
project comprised 3 components: small-scale irrigation development, pig
multiplication and rice production intensification.
1.2       The first component was designed to provide irrigation and drainage
services for some 8,320 ha of permanent paddy land. Individual schemes
ranging from 100 - 300 ha in size were to be constructed or rehabilitated: 13
new schemes would be constructed to cover a total area of 3,900 ha (including
9 gravity schemes, 2,700 ha, and 4 pump schemes, 1,200 ha); and 35 schemes
would be rehabilitated (all gravity and covering a total area of 4,420 ha,
including 16 schemes, 1,920 ha, where headworks and distribution systems had
been inadequately maintained; 16 schemes, 1,600 ha, with temporary earth and
brushwood dams; and 3 drainage control systems, 900 ha, requiring realignment
and strengthening of drainage channels, new flood control gates and flood
protection embankments). The gravity schemes were to be supplied by the
tributaries of Nam Ngum River in the foothills of Vientiane Plain and the pump
schemes by the Nam Ngum River itself. In the wet season, there would be full
irrigation coverage, while in the dry season 30X of the gravity area, i.e.
2,136 ha, and 50Z of the pump area, i.e. 600 ha, would be irrigable, yielding
a total irrigable area of 2,736 ha.
1.3       The pig multiplication component would establish 10 pig
multiplication units of 120 sows each in separate locations for the annual
production of 14,400 weaners for sale to small pig producers and Government
employees. Purebred breeding stock was to be imported for the establishment
of a selection program to provide improved breeding stock to the
multiplication units. Feeds were to be supplied, prepared from imported
concentrates and local supplies of broken rice, rice bran and maize.
Government programs to ensure production of maize and rice bran sufficient to
meet the needs of the project were also included. Prices cf feed, piglets and
pigmeat were to be set at levels sufficient to ensure adequate returns to the
pig multiplication units and producers. Credit for pig feed was to be
provided through the National Bank of Laos (NBL).
1.4       The rice intensification component comprised the improvement of
physical facilities at Salakham Research Station, research and development of
superior rice vsrieties and cultural techniques, rice seed production and
provision of an improved agronomic package, including chemical inputs, to some



2,500 ha of land under satisfactory water management. A revolving fund was to
be established from the sale of inputs and credit was to be provided through
NBL. To promote the use of the improved seeds, prices were to be set at
levels equivalent to that of ordinary paddy.
1.5       All three components included the provision of technical assistance
financed by UNDP and executed by FAO. Five advisers were to be provided: (a)
an irrigation engineer for design and construction; (b) an irrigation engineer
for irrigation management; (c) a rice production management specialist; (d) a
specialist in pig housing design and construction; and (e) a specialist in pig
husbandry and production management.
1.6       Project implementation started very slowly due to delays in the
appointment of subproject directots and in the arrival of the technical
advisers, which affected planning and programming of the project. There was
little leadership and coordination at the central level. Two major
constraints were the acute shortage of skilled manpower in the country and the
highly centralized decision-making process. These factors highlighted the
very weak absorptive capacity and the specific need for external technical
assistance. This was also the first IDA project for Laos and both local
project staff and expatriate technical advisers were not familiar with IDA
procedures. In addition, the advisers could not communicate adequately in
English or French. As a result, procurement and project implementation were
delayed by about two years.
1.7       Increased assistance from IDA supervision missions and the World
Bank Regional Mission in Bangkok (RMB), and in particular, the implementation
of a "Coordination Advice and Logistic Support" project in 1980, two years
after project start-up, helped to ease procurement and disbursement
problems. This project, financed by UNDP and executed by IDA over two years
until 1982, supported the establishment of a "Bureau of Coordination" in
Vientiane to provide coordination and management assistance to project
staff. Transfer of IDA project supervision responsibility to RMB in 1983
enabled missions to be held at short and regular intervals and to provide
increased technical assistance, which were critical factors in improving
project implementation. Communications with project agencies were improved,
allowing problems to be promptly addressed and resolved.
1.8       Both the irrigation and the pig multiplication components were
revised during project implementation. Hydrological surveys carried out after
project start-up had shown that dry season streamflow for the selected gravity
schemes was lower than expected at appraisal. Difficulties of access to the
gravity schemes and the establishment of pumping stations under bilateral
assistance shifted Government priority to pump schemes. Since these schemes
were situated along the perennial Mekong River, dry season water supply was
not a constraint. The close-ess of the pump schemes to Vientiane made more
effective use of scarce management resources and improved access to markets.
Consequently, more pump schemes were constructed than gravity schemes.
Construction work covered only main and secondary canals, control structures
and concrete farm take-offs. For gravity schemes, civil works covered both
headworks and main distribution systems.



- 3 -
1.9       To date, 10 gravity schemes covering 2,250 ha, and 16 pump schemes
covering 5,500 ha, or a total irrigable area of 7,750 ha, have been
completed. This wet season area compares with 8,320 ha escimated at
appraisal. Full development has not yet been reached as a remaining small
number of secondary canals and concrete structures will not be completed
before 1988. In the 1986 dry season, 1,020 ha of gravity scheme and 2,780 ha
of pump scheme, or a total area of 3,800 ha, was irrigated, against the
appraisal full development estimate of 2,730 ha. At full development
scheduled for 128, it is expected that 1,090 ha of gravity scheme and 3,570
ha of pump scheme, or a total area of 4,660 ha (170% of appraisal estimate),
would be irrigable in the dry season. Yields in the wet season of 1985
averaged 3.1 tons/ha for pump schemes and 2.3 tons/ha for gravity schemes, as
compared to 1.8 tons/ha for the without project situation. Actual 1985 dry
season yield increases ranged between 1.3 and 1.6 tons/ha, against the
appraisal estimate of 1.2 tons/ha.
1.10      The pig multiplication component was also revised during project
implementation. Instead of ten units of 120 sows each to be established in
separate locations, facilities were constructed for 600 sows at only one site
(Tha Ngone). Fear of diseases and the need to make more effective use of
scant management resources and physical facilities prompted this change. Pure
breeds were imported from Thailand to establish the breeding herd. A modern
production system suitable for large production units was adopted. However,
it was capital-intensive, requiring a higher level of investment in housing
and equipment per sow than estimated at appraisal. Thus, only half of the
appraisal objective for the number of breeding sows has been achieved.
Technical assistance and training enabled local project staff to master
production techniques and become technically self-sufficient.
1.11      By 1983, the herd had reached its full revised herd composition of
600 sows; 6,023 weaners (84% of the appraisal estimate for 600-sows unit) were
sold that year. Sales in 1986 dropped to 5,500 weaners (76% of appraisal
estimate) mainly due to problems of feed supply. Shortage of foreign
exchange, when the amount provided under the project had been used up, led to
an interruption of feed supply and the production of low quality and
unbalanced feed from poor local materials. Government programs for the
production of maize and cassava became effective only around 1986. The
technical performance of the unit was thus affected. Full development of the
unit, when the feed supply problem is resolved, is forecast for 1988.
1.12      Production of piglets of improved quality and performance for
fattening by small producers to increase porkmeat production was a sound
objective. However, a production system which relied entirely on purebred
stock and high quality feeds was perhaps premature. The improvement of local
breeds was also a feasible alternative. The success of this component now
depends upon the continuation of the livestock feed factory programs to
produce cheap and good quality feeds based on local materials. Supported by
an on-going IDA-assisted project, local maize production and procurement by
the feed factory have increased significantly since 1986, as well as
procurement of soybeans from the south to be used as protein concentrate. The
capability of the factory is also being strengthened under the project by the
addition of a rice bran stabilizing plant and a soya bean oil extraction



- 4 -
plant. Until recently, local maize production programs failed due to low
official producer prices for maize. Similarly, low official prices for
weaners had adverse effects such as chronic operating losses for the
multiplication farm. To cut down on these losses, the farm, at one stage,
retained up to 40% of its production of piglets for fattening but this
activity is being discontinued. Fattening on the farm aggravated the feed
supply problem by further reducing the limited supply of feed to the breeding
stock. The revolving fund envisaged at appraisal for the purchase of feed by
small producers was not established.
1.13      In spite of start-up delays, the rice intensification component was
successfully completed. Civil works and the provision ot equipment and
materials to strengthen Salakham Research Station were carried out. Research
work at the Station led to the development of improved rice cultivation
techniques. Notably, two technical packages (full and limited) were developed
and have now been extended countrywide. The selection of improved rice
varieties and the seed production program carried out under the project
resulted in the implementation of an improved seed distribution program.
Chemical inputs were supplied to cover a total irrigated area of about 4,726
ha, or 105X of the appraisal estimate.
1.i4      After two extensions of one year each, the Credit was closed on
September 30, 1985. A balance of US$39,942 was cancelled from the total
Credit of US$8.2 million.
1.15      Due to the several changes in the official commercial exchange rate
for the Kip during project implementation, total project costs have been
estimated in US$ for comparison with appraisal estimates. Application of
prevailing rates to convert local costs into US$ gave an inflated total
project cost estimate of US$14.2 million, against the appraisal estimate of
US$11.9 million, as a result of the over-valuation of the Kip. If local costs
were valued at market exchange rates, the total project costs estimate would
fall to about US$11.0 million.
1.16      Calculation of the economic impact of the project has been difficult
due to the lack of proper records, failure in establishing any monitoring and
evaluation mechanism and the absence of good indicators for determining the
foreign exchange rate of the Kip.
1.17      The re-estimated ERR at full development for the entire project is
8.4X, compared to 25% estimated at appraisal. The ERRs for the irrigation and
pig multiplication components are 9.02 and 13.5Z, respectively. The gravity
and pump schemes have ERRs of 15.9% and 6.6%, compared with appraisal
estimates of 40% and 12%. Although benefits were also expected for the rice
intensification component, no economic analysis was carried out at appraisal
or after project completion.



II. INTRODUCTION
2.;       This was the first operation of the World Bank Group in Laos, which
was admitted to the Bank in 1961 and to IDA in 1963. Prior to the end of the
civil war in 1975, the Bank's contacts with the country were infrequent. In
1966, the Bank acted as administrator for the Nam Ngum Development Fund,
established by several donors to finance the first stage of the Nam Ngum
hydroelectric project. A number of irrigation projects were also prepared,
but never implemented. In the 1975-76 period, after the ending of hostilities
and the establishment of the new Government, a Bank economic mission to Laos
identified priority areas for external financing. The Government also
requested IDA to begin lending operations. As from 1976, several missions
from the Pank's headquarters and RMB visited Vientiane to develop proposals
for IDA assistance.
2.2       The Bank economic mission concluded that, due to lack of trained
manpower, the weak institutional and technological base, poor communications
and access to mackets, and the disruptions caused by the war, insufficient
food production had become Laos' major problem. At that time, the per capita
income of Laos was estimated at about US$90, making it one of the poorest and
least developed countries in the world. De3pite the relative wealth of the
country's natural resources, the bulk of the population had incomes well below
absolute poverty levels.
2.3       Priority in the agriculture sector was given to the rehabilitation
and development of small-scale irrigation schemes, livestock and fisheries,
land improvement and on-farm development to raise the productivity of
resettled land, and expansion of exports. These were in line with the
priorities identified in the 1975 economic report on Laos and were reflected
in the important share of budgetary allocations to agriculture. In the 1977
budget, about 25% of development expenditures were allocated to agriculture,
in particular for the rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation works.
2.4       The Government's policy was to restructure the economy along
socialist lines, administration and management being centralized with
planning, budgeting and execution of all significant econ3mic activity subject
to central Government control. The principal development objective of self-
sufficiency in food, at both national and regional levels, was to be achieved
by the establishment of state and cooperative farms. The rural population,
characterized by small subsistence holdings, would be gradually absorbed into
the cooperative system in several stages. To encourage farmers to form
cooperatives, an incentive system was established. The supply of farm inputs
(fertilizers and agricultural chemicals, fuels and machinery) and services
(extension and credit) was made a state monopoly and first priority in
obtaining these inputs and services was given to cooperatives and state farms.
2.5       Pricing and marlketing of agricultural products were also placed
under State control. Stace procurement companies were established for the
main commodities (e.g., paddy and coffee), and private transactions were
officially prohibited. Procurement and retail prices of almost all food
commodities were set at levels aimed at minimizing losses on Government



- 6 -
procurement of basic foodstuffs for distribution at nominal prices to urban
public sector workers in lieu of wages. In return, to offset the low official
producer prices paid to cooperatives and state farms, inputs and credit were
subsidized. Since 1984/85, however, the government has begun to implement the
New Economic Order (NEO), under which official prices of a number of
commodities were raised to levels which reflected real costs.



III. PROJECT FORMULATION
3.1       In early 1976, the government requested IDA assistance in preparing
and financing a project to alleviate the constraints to fond production. The
project was identified and prepared by Lao Government agencies with the
assistance of IDA staff and appraised by an IDA mission in September/October
1976. The draft appraisal report was discussed with the Government in
Vientiane in February/March 1977. Project content and implementation
procedures were further discussed in detail with the Lao Delegation to the
Annual Meeting in September/October 1977, and negotiations were concluded in
Vientiane in November 1977.
3.2       The project aimed at increasing rice and porkmeat production in
Vientiane Province (now divided into Vientiane Prefecture and Vientiane
Province) and strengthening key Government agencies involved. It included
three components: small-scale irrigation and drainage, pig multiplication and
rice intensification.
3.3       In accordance with Government priorities. this first IDA project was
restricted to Vientiane Province in which 17% of the total population lived.
The province had an annual deficit of 30,000 tons in rice production, as well
as a deficit in pig production. Standards of rural infrastructure and the
quality of technical staff were higher than for other provinces, allowing for
potentially nore rapid project implementation and earlier benefits.  With
these advantages, Vientiane Province -as t. be used as a pilot case to obtain
administrative experience in irrigat.on, pig multiplication and rice
intensification, for subsequent transfer to other provinces.
3.4       The main constraints to agricultural production addressed by the
project were inadequate water management in the rice areas, the lack of a
proven agronomic package for rice production, inadequate supplies of weaners
to farmers, shortage of experienced technical staff and lack of credit and
marketing institutions. It was, however, also clearly recognized that due to
the institutional weaknesses, the project had to be kept small and simple in
design, the implementation procedures straightforward and the components
limited in number. Emphasis was placed on yield intensification rather than
area expansion, for quicker and higher returns on investment. Similarly,
small-scale irrigation schemes were preferred to the larger hydraulic schemes
with higher investment costs and longer gestation periods.
3.5       The small-scale irrigation and drainage development component
included the improvement of water management on 8,320 ha of permanent paddy
land through the construction, operation and maintenance of 3,900 ha of new
schemes and rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of 4,420 ha of existing
schemes. Up to 48 schemes between 100 ha and 300 ha each were identified for
development. These consisted of 13 new schemes, of which nine were gravity
(2,700 ha) and four pump (1,200 ha) schemes. The remaining 35 schemes were
for rehabilitation; they were all gravity schemes requiring repairs on the
headworks and distribution systems (16 schemes of a total area of 1,920 ha),
construction of dams and weirs (16 schemes of a total area of 1,600 ha) and
drainage improvement (3 schemes of a total area of 900 ha). The gravity



- 8 -
schemes were located on the tributaries of Nam Ngum River in the foothills of
Vientiane Plain while the pump schemes were on the Nam Ngum River itself.
About 5,500 farmers were to benefit from the component.
3.6       The pig multiplication development component involved the
estabiisi.ment of 10 units of 120 sows ii, separate locations to supply over
14,400 weaners annually to small pig producers. The program was to be based
on the importation of purebred stock (Landrace and Large White) to establish a
selection program to provide improved breeding stock (hybrids) to
multiplication units, and the production of feed from imported concentrates
and locally produced ingredients such as broken rice, rice bran and maize.
Credit for pig feed was to be made available to the producers by the National
Bank of Laos.
3.7       The rice intensification development component comprised the
strengthening of physical facilities at Salakham Research Station, the
development of improved rice varieties and production techniques, seed
production, and provision of fertilizers and insecticides to cover 2,500 ha of
irrigated paddy land by year 3 of the project, or a total of 4,500 ha
throughout the project. A revolving fund was to be established for the input
supply program.
3.8       The executing agency for the project was the Ministry of
Agriculture, more specifically the Directorates of Irrigation, Livestock and
Agriculture respectively. Expatriate technical assistance financed ty UNDP
an4 executed by FAO included two irrigation specialists (a planning adviser
and a design adviser), a rice management specialist, a specialist in pig
husbandry and management, and a specialist in piggery design and
construction. The terms of reference of the advisers also included providing
assistance in the preparation of specifications for equipment and in bid
evaluation.



- 9 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Works
4.1       The project became effeccive on April 5, 1978, but implementation
was affected by delays in the appointment of the three subproject directors
and other key staff. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was also being
reorganized, and organizational and staffing arrangements had not yet been
concluded. This period of uncertainty lasted more than a year during which
there was virtually no progress in project execution. The lack of experience
of both proect staff and expatriate technical advisers in IDA procurement and
d:.sbursement procedures was also a miajor problem.
4.2       The Director-General of MOA, assisted by the Department of Planning,
was assigned the responsibility for overall project coordination but a
specific position was not established under the reorganization of MOA.
Consequently, the Department of Planning was constrained by snortage of staff;
no project coordinator was appointed and a monitoring and evaluation unit was
not established. Project implementation generally, and procurement in
particular, was affected. The Special Account provided to facilitate purchase
of small items of equipment and supplies for project start-up was not used
effectively.
4.3       To address these serious project start-up problems, the Bank
Resident Mission in Ban6kok (RMB) began to play an increasing role in
providing assistance to project implementation agencies, with special emphasis
on procurement and disbursement. RMB staff visited Laos regularly at
intervals of 4 to 6 weeks, providing first-hand assistance to project staff.
In addition, a UNDP-financed and World Bank-executed "Coordination Advice and
Logistic Support" project almed at providing coordination and management
assistance became effective in '980. A Bureau of Coordination, managed by an
expatriate expert who arrived that year, wes set up in Vientiane to help
develop a management system for improving procurement, project accounting, and
monitoring and evaluation. This project fully achieved its objectives during
the two years of the expert's assignment. The responsibilities and tasks for
planning, coordination, budgeting, accounting, contract preparation and
letting, and issuance of banking instruments which were handled by the Bureau
reverted to the appropriate agencies at the departure of the expert. The
Import Export Society of Laos resumed its responsibility for procurement and
the Lao Bank for External Commerce for issuing letters of credit and payment
applications.
4.4       Budget planning and programming, and the appropriation of budgetary
funds were also a problem. By the end of 1979, local counterpart funds were
so short for the financing of locally purchased goods and civil works.
Although a portion of those expenditures was eligible for reimbursement under
the Credit, local funds had to be provided in advance for that portion.
Execution of civil works was a.ffected. However, the Ministry of Finance
reacted promptly to the problem by agreeing to make local funds available for
the project and to assume the full local financing of such items as labor.



- 10 -
4.5       Thus, the project entered its full implementation phase only around
1980. In view of the start-up delays, project objectives were not achieved by
the scheduled completion date of December 31, 1982. The IDA Credit closing
date was extended twice by one-year periods, to Septembc- 30, 1985, and a sum
of US$39,942, which could not be disbursed in time, was cancelled from the
Credit.
Small-Scale Irrigation and Drainage Component
4.6       In 1978, the Vientiane Province Irrigation Service was given the
task of implementing the irrigation and drainage development component, under
the technical supervision of the Director of the Irrigation Department of
MOA. A provincial construction agency was created to carry out the civil
works but organizational and staffing problems, mainly the shortage of skilled
technical staff for survey and design, affected prog-;ess. A subproject
director was appointed only in 1980. Topographical survey work commenced in
1979 and design work in 1980, fully 20 months after Credit effectiveness.
Designs were considered inappropriate by IDA supervision missions and an
agreed design manual was not issued until 1981. Until then, the technical
advisers were not very effective, due to language problems and to restricted
access to project sites.
4.7       Survey and Design.  Survey and detailed design had not been carried
out by project appraisal but instead were included in the preconstruction
activities of the Provincial Irrigation Service during the first phase of
project execution.  However, the five topographical survey teams were not
established until June 1979, over a year after Credit effectiveness. Survey
work was later taken over by the Vientiane Prefecture Irrigation Construction
Society (VPICS), after the redefin,tion of subproject implementation
responsibilities and the acquisition of new survey equipment and technical
aids. At first, the work was very slow, but improved as staff was
increased. Nearly half of the appraisal schemes were surveyed, but only 4
(all in Vientiane Province) proceeded to completion. Schemes not on the
appraisal list were also surveyed and some were included in the project.
4.8       Detailed design work commenced in January 1980 and was completed in
early 1985. Initially there was one design team, later increased to three
teams. The earlier designs had not been submitted to IDA for review and were
later considered by supervision missions to be over-designed. Agreement on a
standard design was not reached until 1981 when a design manual was prepared
based on Thai and Philippine standards (formerly identified as U.S. Bureau of
Reclamation) and modified by the FAO technical advisers.
4.9       Change in Subproject Design.  In 1981, as a direct result of slow
and inadequate survey and design work, and lower than expected dry season
streamflow for the gravity schemes, the Government accorded higher priority to
the construction of small and medium-scale pump schemes along the Mekong and
Nam Ngum Rivers. The difficult access to the dispersed gravity schemes also
weighed in favor of pump schemes. In addition, bilateral assistance programs
were providing complete and operable pumping systems on these perennial
rivers. The Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB), the Netherlands
and the World Council of Churches supported the installation of 64



- 11 -
electrically driven pumps for some 25 schemes, of which 15 have been developed
under the IDA Credit. The higher operating costs of pump schemes were
expected to be offset by such advantages as full dry season water sup.   and
proximity to services and markets. Electricity was cheap and abundant.
4.10      Construction.  Civil works for the pump schemes in Vientiane
Prefecture, undertaken by VPICS, started in January 1981. construction of the
gravity schemes, situated mainly in Vientiane Province, by the provincial
construction company started later. Shortage of fuel was a constant problem.
4.11      At -ppraisal, five types of development covering 3,900 ha of new
systems and 4,420 ha of rehabilitation were to be achieved. The new systems
included nine gravity schemes (Type A - Houei Son) of about 2,700 ha and four
pump schemes (Type B - Ban Cheng) on the Nam Ngum River of about 1,200 ha.
The rehabilitation works covered three types: 16 gravity schemes (Type C -
Ben Ylai) covering 1,920 ha where headworks and distribution systems have been
inadequately maintained, 16 gravity schemes (Type D - Ban Nakeo) covering
1,600 ha where temporary dams would be replaced, and 3 drainage control
systems (Type E - Pak Pung) on 900 ha requiring realignment and strer.nthening
of drainage channels. By 1986, 6 schemes of Type A (1,270 ha), 16 schemnes of
Type B (5,500 ha), 2 schemes of Type C (370 ha) and 2 schemes of Type D (610
ha) had been developed. No Type E scheme had been constructed.
4.12      For gravity schemes, construction work covered both headworks and
distribution systems and for pump schemes, only main and secondary canals,
control structures and concrete farm take-offs (FTOs). O&M roads linked head-
works to main canals. All on-farm development (OFD) was left to the
farmers. Much of the concrete work was of poor quality in spite of overuse of
concrete. Main and secondary canal construction was adequate, if a little
oversized. Canal banks have had little compaction, and water losses are
likely to be of economic significance for the pump schemes in the dry season.
4.13      To date, the outstanding works which are scheduled for completion by
1988 include the bulk of the canal control structures and more than half of
the permanent FTO structures from the main and secondary canals, for which
cement and naterials had already been provided under the Credit. Little OFD
has been undertaken, except for a few tertiary ditches dug by hand by
farmers. However, the works completed are clearly able to deliver water to
secondary canals for paddy-to-paddy transfer to the lower areas, but improved
water use efficiency leading to full optimization of benefits cannot be
achieved before completion of the remaining works. Much of these works can be
included in O&M programs which, however, require the organization of farmers
into service unit groups to complete the tertiary canal systems and to manage
water distribution in these units.
4.14      Operation and Maintenance.  Following substantial completion of the
project, the Ministry established within the Vientiane Prefecture a special
enterprise for irrigation system O&M: the Vientiane Prefecture Irrigation
Operation, Maintenance and Land Clearing Enterprise (VPIOMLCE). This unit has
a small technical staff responsible for the operation of 35 pump stations (of
which L5 IDA Credit schemes), as well as the Nam Houm and Nam Souang gravity
schemes. On the other hand, Vientiane Province Irrigation Construction



- 12 -
Enterprise is responsible for the headworks Qnd reservoir control valves of
the predominantly gravity schemes under its responsibility. Since it has only
a small 4-5 man O&M team and scarce resources, little O&M work is being
carried out. For weir or barrage supplies on small streams, the O&M is
entirely the responsibility of the designated head of the water user group,
usually the village leader.
4.15      The Prefecture O&M enterprise mans and operates the pumps as
requested by farmers and carries out all repairs and maintenance of the pumps,
control valves and gates at headworks. It also supplies cement and other
materials for structural repairs, carries out any surveys and detailing and
oversees the farmer repair workers. There is provision for the pump master to
set the master bifurcation boards at the secondary take-off but with no
transport provided and no boards (stop logs) available, these tasks have been
devolved to the cooperatives or farmer groups.
4.16      Farmer cooperatives and water user groups (WUGs), on the other hand,
have been given full responsibility for the proper maintenance and cleaning of
canals and for water distribution. In practice, the formation of cooperatives
and WUGs has been slow. Few, if any, farmer cooperatives or WUGs have been
formed to date in the 10 project schemes of Vientiane Province, while they
cover about 2,000 ha, or slightly less than one-third of the total area cf the
16 project schemes in Vientiane Prefecture. Further progress in organizing
farmers into user groups will hinge on the efforts and capability of
VPIOMLCE. MOA has undertaken some formal instruction of farmer cooperatives
(two farmers from each cooperative) in the rudiments of board or "check log"
control of bifurcation and other distribution structures, the demand sequence
of crop planning and the advantages of good cooperation of all parties. The
service is to be extended to WUGs but has, as yet, not been formally insti-
gated by the O&M management or coordinated with the farm extension advisory
services.
Pig Multiplication Component
4.17      Early on in the project, due to the high capital costs and feed
supply problem discussed below, Government reconsidered the objectives of this
component and decided to establish facilities for only 600 sows (50% of the
appraisal target) at a single location. A 30 ha site was chosen at Tha Ngone
where the land was cleared and levelled in October 1979 and construction
started in early 1980. Shortage of construction materials and labor supply
delayed progress until the second half of 1982, when the first batch of pigs
could be housed. Although the bulk of the physical facilities, including
administration buildings and fencing, were not completed until 1984, these
were already fully operational by 1983. About 5% of the administration and
disinfection buildings are still unfinished. However, there is sufficient
infrastructure, cleared land, electricity and water supply, administration
buildings, stores, workshop and canteen for a production unit of 1,200 sows
(the appraisal target), which remains the long-term objective of the farm.
4.18      A modern, intensive pig production system, based on the large-scale
commercially successful systems operating in Thailand, was chosen. The design
of the pig houses was prepared by a major Thai agro-industrial firm, which



- 13 -
also provided technical assistance and training and supplied breeding stock
and pig housing equipment. Centralization of the multiplication unit resulted
in saviiigs in infrastructure costs, but since the production system was
capital-intensive, it required a higher level of investment in housing and
equipment per sow. Thus, only half of the appraisal target for the number of
breeding sows has been achieved. FAO technical advisers assisted in project
implementation and trained local staff until adequate capability was built up.
4.19      Feed Supply.  The pig multiplication farm, owned and managed by the
State Agro-Processing Enterprise (SAPE), faced the serious problem of supply
and quality of feed obtained from the local livestock  eedmill.  Government
programs for the local production of maize and rice bran for the feedmill were
to be implemented. Only protein concentrates, minerals and vitamin premixes
were to be imported. Credit funds were allocated to finance the import of
feed ingredients, equal to the annual requirements for fattening 50% of
project piglet output, until all grain requirements could be supplied
locally. As these programs failed, feed production continued to rely on
imported raw materials. The supply of these materials was also irregular,
resulting in frequent feed shortages or the production of low-quality feeds.
4.20      Pig fattening operations started in 1984 to offset operating losses,
but this further reduced the supply of feed for breeding stock. At one stage
up to 40% of the piglets were kept for fattening instead of being sold. Since
then, however, pig fattening on the farm has been reduced.
4.21      Changes in Government pricing policies prevailing at appraisal,
namely the abolition of the tax on maize and increase of the official
procurement price, were expected to result in an increased supply of feed
ingredients. It was also thought that payment of the agricultural tax in kind
(paddy), instead of cash, would result in greater quantities of rice milling
by-products falling under Government control. A project was scheduled to
start in 1977 with UNDP support to increase the Province's maize production
from 2,500 tons in 1977 to 10,000 tons in 1980. However, until the Credit
closed in 1985, no effective maize production program was being implemented
because the low Government procurement price for maize discouraged farmers.
It was only in 1986, when SAPE assumed responsibility for promoting maize
production and prices were significantly increased, that tangible maize
production results were obtained.
4.22      Pigfeed and weaner prices were to be regulated to ensure adequate
returns to both the multiplication farm and the buyers of piglets. These
prices were kept low throughout most of the project, resulting in good profits
for pig raisers (there was no price restriction on finished pigs) but losses
for the multiplication farm. Prices were later raised, but not sufficiently
for the farm to make a profit.
4.23      Technical performance on the farm has not been affected much by
disease problems, mainly due to strict preventive measures. Some outbreak of
disease, (notably Aujeszky's disease), has been reported, but the main cause
of piglet mortality has been diarrhoea, a result of unsanitary conditions and
spoiled feed. There have also been occasional supply problems, mainly of
antibiotics for the treatment of diarrhoea. There is no information on the
incidence of disease among the pigs sold outside the farm.



- 14 -
4.24      Since 1986, the feed supply situation has improved with the
implementation of the maize production program under the ongoing IDA-assisted
Agricultural Production Support Project (APSP). Also the quality of feed has
improved, due to the more regular supply of raw materials and also to
pelletization of the feed, which reduces spoilage. Soya beans, the main local
protein source, are being obtained in substantial amounts from Saravane
Province on the Bolovens Plateau. Also under APSP, a rice bran stabilizing
plant, which will eliminate rancid oils, is being procured for the feedmill.
Maize prices have been raised. SAPE considers that technical performance can
be increased to the level of appraisal estimate, i.e. 7,200 weaners per
year. This target is well within the reach of a modern, intensive and well-
managed pig production enterprise.
Rice Intensification Component
4.25      Procurement was slow at project start-up; in fact, equipment and
materials arrived only in 1979-80, one to two years into the project. Staff
were also appointed late. However, on-going preproject activities such as
rice variety selection, and seed multiplication and distribution, were kept on
schedule.
4.26      Salakham Research Station.  Research work at Salakham was on the
development of improved agronomic packages for rice. The subproject Director
and a number of technicians were selected in the first year of the project but
did not take up their positions until later. In the first dry season (1979),
training, rice-seed selection at Salakham and seed multiplication at Tha Ngone
were the only project activities. Irrigation facilities were afterwards
developed at the Station, enabling paddy to be grown and field experimentation
to be carried out throughout the year. Other physical facilities such as
offices, a training center, canteen, workshop, garage and water tower were
also constructed or repaired.
4.27      Input Supply.  Fertilizers and insecticides were first supplied in
the 1979 rainy season and the program was completed in 1981 with the full
disbursement of funds for this activity. Two technical packages were
extended: a "full" package, and a "limited" package. In 1980, Government's
rice intensification program was expanded to cover not only Credit 760-LA but
also Credit 924-LA which provided additional funds for rice intensification
and cooperative development. Thus, the source and destination of the inputs
supplied under the program became confused. The task of monitoring and
evaluation of the input supply program also became more difficult.
4.28      Seed Production.  The project assisted one of the more important
activities of Salakham, the production of foundation seed of improved rice
varieties, developed and selected for release to the farming community. The
project irrigation facilities provided supplementary irrigation during the wet
season and enabled seed production during the dry season on an area of 2 ha
out of the total farm area of 10 ha. The foundation seed was then multiplied
by cooperatives under contract to MOA.
4.29      Training.  The subproject also provided training to technicians and
farmer groups. Eight staff went on overseas study tours and three staff



- 15 -
followed the five-month long rice production course at IRRI. Over 160
technicians were trained locally. Farmers were instructed in modern rice
production methods. About 490 farmers were trained in the dry season of 1979
and another 503 and 1,108 farmers in the dry and wet seasons of 1980,
respectively. Visits were organized for about 750 persons on the pilot
stations. Extension leaflets were prepared for distribution to farmers.
B. Revolving Funds
4.30      The Credit Agreement provides for the establishment of a revolving
fund by the State Bank of Laos (SBL), to make short-term credit available to
farmers participating in the rice intensification and pig raising compo-
nents. Inputs such as fertilizers and insecticides were provided to the first
group of participants although a revolving fund was not set up. Institutional
credit to individuals is not available. The pig producers used their own
funds to purchase feeds.
C. Technical Assistance
4.31      Skilled manpower constraints were recognized at project inception
and therefore an important technical assistance component was incLuded, with
UNDP financing and executed by FAO. These advisers were less than fully
effective for several reasons. Their arrival was delayed by the difficulty of
identifying suitable candidates of nationalities acceptable to Government and
fluent in French, thus affecting project implementation. Consequently, the
field of prospective candidates was narrowed and the advisers were finally
selected not solely on technical merit and suitability. One or two of these
advisers were also handicapped by the inability to communicate adequately in
French and had to acquire the services of an interpreter. Most of the
advisers were constrained by their lack of familiarity with procurement and
IDA procedures, a major problem at project start-up when they were unable to
assist their local counterparts with similar constraints.
4.32      The technical advisers were unable to function as a team on account
of their widely different national and cultural backgrounds. Communications
or interaction between the advisers themselves and with the local project
staff were difficult due to physical separation and the lack of eEfort to
organize regular coordination meetings. The advisers' role was also limiLed
to Eechnical matters only, leaving coordination and management deficiencies
unaddressed.
D.  Procurement and Disbursement
4.33      Early procurement was critical for the timely completion of the
project, as practically all equipment and material goods had to be irported.
However, there were delays of up to two years. Procurement was channelled
through the Department of Planning, which suffered from delays in appointment
of a procurement coordinator, a slow and centralized decision-making process,
lack of familiarity with IDA requirements and procedures, lack of skills for
the preparation of technical specifications and bid documents, and slow
internal and external communications. It was not until 1979 when a
procurement coordinator was appointed and active assistance was provided by



- 16 -
RMB and IDA supervision missions that progress was made. Bid documents for
the first and second calls for tender were not finalized until March 1979,
nearly a year after Credit effectiveness, and most equipment and goods were
received only in 1980.
4.34      Disbursement was also affected.  Sixteen months after Credit
effectiveness, only US$0.1 million had been disbursed as compared to an
appraisal estimate of US$2.8 million. A Special Account of US$50,000 was
deposited at NBL to facilitate the procurement of urgently needed small items
of equipment and materials, but this was not used adequately. Although it was
extended twice to December 31, 1979, only US$39,000 had been disbursed by that
date out of the total available sum of US$100,000.
4.35      Labor and Local Materials.  The Credit provided for partial
reimbursement of local expenditures (e.g. labor and local construction
materials included in the "civil works" category at the official exchange rate
of US$1 = K 10). At that exchange rate, reimbursements of the labor and local
materials portion of civil works resulted in an over-payment of their actual
cost in Kip and in the increased drawdown of Credit funds. A substantial
share of the amounts allocated for civil works were, therefore, reallocated to
the "equipment and materials" category to limit reimbursement for labor and
local materials. Subsequently, however, due to shortage of budgetary funds
for those items, their share of IDA financing was increased.
E. Accounts, Audits and Monitoring and Evaluation
4.36      Proper and accurate accounts have not been kept for the three
components. With IDA's assistance, an acceptable accounting system was
established at one stage. However, most accounts and records have been lost
as a result of frequent changes in project management. Thus, a very accurate
analysis of project costs is not possible, but the data compiled for this
report can be considered to be fair estimates. Project accounts were
scheduled to be audited by state auditors as there were no private audit firms
in the country. However, no audit report had been issued for the project
although proforma accounts and audit guidelines were provided to Government.
4.37      It was required under the project that a monitoring and evaluation
unit would be established with staff of the Directorate of Agriculture and its
Department of Planning who would report to the Director General of
Agriculture. The functions of the unit were to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the project and the benefits derived from it. Due mainly to
the lack of trained manpower in DOA, the unit was not established.
F. Projtct Costs
4.38      Annual and total project costs are presented for local expenditures
in Kip and foreign expenditures in US$. Due to the several changes of the
official exchange rate of the Kip during project implementation, only project
costs estimated in US$ have any significance. Prevailing official commercial
exchange rates have been used to cunvert local costs into US$. The
intervening years average exchange rate was US$1 = K 25 indicating
appreciation in Kip of about 90% compared with the appraisal year average
exchange rate of US$1 = K 200.



- 17 -
4.39      Project costs included K 121.2 million in local expenditures and
US$9.7 million in foreign expenditures, giving a total cost of US$14.2
million. The apparent cost increases of about 19% above the appraisal
estimate of US$11.9 million, however, reflect only the over-valuation of the
Kip fraction of the total costs. If local costs are valued at market exchange
rates (intervening years average of US$1 = K 90), the total project costs
would amount to about US$11.0 million, or very close to the appraisal
estimate.
4.40      Total costs for the irrigation component amounted to US$8.45 million
against the appraisal estimate of US$8.44 million. This includes US$2.43
million (US$2.01 million at appraisal) for equipment, construction plant and
vehicle procurement, the increase being due to price escalation from the two
years delay in procurement. The civil works program which also included an
allowance for fuel consumption for the construction of main and secondary
canals cost US$5.43 million, or 95% of the appraisal estimate. However,
although not all secondary canals and tertiary and farm take-off control
structures have been completed, requirements for fuel, spare parts, cement and
reinforcement steel have been provided under the IDA Credit. The significant
deviation from the original plan for a majority of small-scale gravity schemes
to a majority of larger scale pump schemes renders any direct comparison of
costs impracticable. The 15% physical contingencies included in the civil
works and procurement total costs were adequate. The annual price contingency
of about 7% also seemed to have been adequate. Technical assistance inputs
amounted to US$0.59 million, or 79% of the appraisal estimate.
4.41      For only half (600 sows) of the appraisal objective for the pig
multiplication component, subproject total costs have exceeded appraisal
estimates (US$1.92 million) for the full initial objective of 1,200 sows.
Foreign exchange expenditures alone have amounted to US$2.32 million, as
against the appraisal estimate of US$1.47 million. Increased technical
assistance inputs accounted for US$0.35 million, or 248% of the appraisal
estimate. Purchases of additional equipment, vehicles and construction
materials accounted for the remainder of the increased foreign exchange
expenditures.  Significantly greater quantities of civil works than estimated
at appraisal were carried out including the basic infrastructure for a 1,200-
sow farm.
4.42      Total costs of the rice intensification component included K 18.4
million in local expenditures and US$1.17 million in foreign expenditures.
Technical assistance costs amounted to US$0.39 million, only 46% of the
appraisal estimate. Foreign costs were equivalent to 87% of the appraisal
estimate. Equipment and vehicles cost less (59%) than estimated at appraisal
while expenditures on chemical inputs were 257% of the appraisal estimate.



- 18 -
V. IMPACT
5.1       This impact evaluation is based on summary or gross data provided by
the project entities. Verification has been difficult due to the absence of
detailed records. In particular, data on the number of beneficiaries, farm
size distribution, and status of collective farming in the project area are
either not available or incomplete.
Small-Scale Irrigation and Drainage Component
5.2       The irrigation component aimed at ensuring reliable water supply to
8,320 ha for wet season cropping and to 2,736 ha for dry season cropping. 48
schemes, of which 44 are gravity and 4 pump, were to be developed. In the dry
season, 30% of the gravity schemes area and 50% of the pump area were to be
irrigated.
5.3       To date, a total area of about 7,750 ha (93% of appraisal estimate)
has been developed for wet season cropping on 26 small to medium irrigation
schemes. Of these, 16 pump schemes cover a total area of 5,500 ha, and 10
gravity schemes an area of 2,250 ha. In the 1986 dry season, about 2,780 ha
of pump scheme and 1,020 ha of gravity scheme were irrigated. With the
completion of the remaining construction programs, it is expected that full
development will be reached in 1988, with 3,570 ha of pump scheme (65%) and
1,090 ha of gravity scheme (48%) being irrigable in the dry season. The total
annual irrigable area would then amount to 12,410 ha, or 112% of the appraisal
estimate.
5.4       The main impact of the irrigation development component was to
increase yields in the wet season and also allow dry season cropping.
Compared to the without project situation (7,750 ha of wet season only), the
annual irrigable area (12,410 ha) expected at full development would increase
by 60%. Yields would also increase due to the more secure water supply.
Seeds of higher yielding varieties, fertilizers and pesticides were to be
provided separately under the rice intensification component to cover an area
of 2,500 ha, which would be developed for irrigation by the third year of the
project. In actual fact, little fertilizer was supplied ifter the project was
completed, due to a Government policy to promote only organic fertilizer (this
policy was rescinded around 1985).
5.5       In the 1985 wet season, yields increased from an average pre-project
situation of 1.8 tons/ha to 3.1 tons/ha for pump schemes and 2.3 tons/ha for
gravity schemes. At full development in 1988, they are expected to reach 3.2
tons/ha and 2.7 tons/ha respectively, a total increase of 1.4 tons/ha and 0.9
tons/ha (compared with appraisal estimates of 1.3 tons/ha for pump schemes and
0.5 tons/ha for gravity schemes without agronomic package and 1.3 tons/ha with
agronomic package). For the 1985 dry season, yields of 3.2 tons/ha were
obtained for pump schemes and 2.7 tons/ha for gravity schemes and these are
expected to reach 3.5 tons/ha for pump schemes and 3.0 tons/ha for gravity
schemes at full development. The without project appraisal yield of 1.2 tons
paddy/ha was estimated to increase to 2.3-2.6 tons/ha with the project.
Actual yield inc.eases obtained of 1.3-1.6 tons/ha were higher than those



- 19 -
appraisal estimates. However, the absolute values of appraisal yield
estimates appeared to be low, as national statistics have shown yields of 2
tons/ha and above being obtained between 1983 and 1985 for the whole country.
5.6       In 1985, total annual paddy production amounted to 30,430 tons,
estimated at about 216% of the without project production. Estimated
production at full development would amount to 39,440 tons, or 153% of the
appraisal estimate, and incremental production to 25,165 tons. Net crop
incomes excluding labor for the average holding size of 1.5 ha are estimated
to increase from K 60,440 and K 67,940 for gravity and pump schemes,
respectively, to K 144,516 and K 181,830 respectively, or an average increase
of about 150%. At this average paddy area, about 5,120 farm families would
benefit from the project, as compared to 5,500 families at appraisal, but the
project area has changed due to the shift towards pump schemes. Since the
main constraint to larger paddy areas per family is household size, it is
assumed, in the absence of field survey data, that the average paddy area per
family has not deviated much from 1.5 ha.
5.7       The recently-established O&M enterprise is implementing its program
to complete construction of all remaining concrete structures and secondary
canals, promote the construction of tertiary canals and field ditches by the
farmers and improve water use efficiency. The impact of improved water supply
depends upon the successful completion of this program which should allow full
water control and conveyance through canals instead of the present paddy-to-
paddy transfer. It is too early yet to evaluate the enterprise's
effectiveness in the field.
5.8       Cost Recovery.  The mean cost per ha for development and improvement
of the main and secondary canal systems, exclusive of technical assistance, is
about US$1,000, against the mean value of US$930 quoted at appraisal.
Separate costings of the 5 types of works have not been prepared but these
ranged from US$500 to US$1,100, against US$500 to US$1,300 estimated at
appraisal.
5.9       It was agreed at Credit negotiations that the Government would
recover indirectly the capital costs as well as costs of operation and
maintenance of structures and distribution works of gravity and pump schemes
through the agricultural production tax which is assessed on a progressive
scale against the wet season crop. In addiLioni, farmers benefitting from pump
irrigation were expected to pay directly for a proportion of O&M costs. The
agricultural production tax is in effect. The present rates are 60 kg paddy
per ha (US$43/ha) for crop yields of 1.8 tons/ha and below, 80 kg paddy/ha
(US$57/ha) for crop yields between 2.0 and 2.7 tons/ha and 120 kg paddy per ha
(US$86/ha) for crop yields of 2.8 tons/ha and higher. The agricultural
production tax is more than adequate to meet the O&M costs of the gravity and
pump schemes, which are estimated at US$35/ha per annum. In addition, since
1985 farmers benefitting from pump schemes have been paying an average of 40
kg paddy/ha (US$29/ha) for wet season and 60 kg/ha (US$43/ha) for dry season
to meet the costs of electricity and pump operators. In 1986 the price of
electricity increased by 1500%, although this increase has been only partly
reflected in the pumping charges; pump irrigated areas have already decreased
as a result.



- 20 -
5.10      The production tax and pumping charges together represent about 3%
and 19% of the farmer's incremental net crop income for gravity and pump
irrigation schemes, respectively. These collection rates, therefore, do not
affect the farmer's repayment capacity.
5.11      The re-estimated cost recoqery index is 41% when the prevailing
rates of production taxes and water charges are taken into account. This cost
recovery index is considered to be highly satisfactory and would be more than
adequate to meet regular O&M costs and part of future irrigation
development.
Pig Multiplication Component
5.12      The pig multiplication component was expected to establish ten 120-
sow multiplication units for an annual production of 14,400 weaners fcr
fattening. Each unit would reach its full composition and annual production
by Year 3 with a net operating income of K 4 million. The net income of the
small pig producers with two weaners was estimated at K 7,740 for every six
months. Total pig production was estimated at 1,300 tons liveweight per annum
or 1,000 tons of meat.
5.13      To date, only one multiplication unit of 600 sows has been
completed. Foundation work was started on the second multiplication unit but
further construction work has been suspended while Government is reviewing
future plans. The herd reached its full composition in 1983 when 6,023
weaners (or 84Z of the appraisal estimate for a 600-sows unit) were sold.  The
appraisal target was based on an annual production of 12 weaners per sow from
1.6 farrowings per year, an average litter size of nine and a survival rate of
85%. These coefficients are readily attained within any modern, well-managed
pig breeding enterprise.
5.14      The pig multiplication farm is not achieving its peak efficiency,
and annual sales dropped to 5,500 weaners (76% of appraisal estimate) in
1986. However, the main problems that are affecting the farm's performance
are being addressed and it is expected that peak efficiency will be reached by
1988, with an improvement in feed supply and technical management. Annual
weaner sales should increase to 6,950 units (97% of revised appraisal
estimate). Pig production would amount to 625 tons liveweight, or 480 tons of
meat.
5.15      Weaner and Pigfeed Prices.  Ever since its establishment, the
multiplication farm has been losing money. Weaners were sold to Government
officials to supplement their low incomes (through pig raising) and prices
were therefore kept low. A 1983 study showed that a weaner cost K 1,500 to
produce but was sold at K 610. Prices were increased to K 2,700 in 1984,
under the NEO. In 1985, the price of feed was also increased from K 8 to K
35. Both weaner and feed prices have not been adjusted since, but a weaner
now costs about K 3,000 to produce. The farm's annual loss since 1982 has
ranged between K 4 - K 7 million. Under NEO, in March 1987, SAPE became a
fully-autonomous State enterprise which was required tc be financially self-
sufficient and authorized to set its own prices, pay attractive salaries, and
give incentives to its staff to reward performance. SAPE has since requested
price adjustments so as to be able to generate profits.



- 21 -
5.16      Small Producer Income.  For the 900 or so pig raisers who were
supplied with weaners in 1986, fattening was profitable. Prices of weaners
and feed from the feedmill were set below free market prices, but the finished
pigs could be sold freely. The profit on two weaners fattened over a six-
month period was estimated at K 22,570 in 1986 prices. Additional profit
estimated at K 5,250 was derived from chickens raised on spilt feed.
Rice Intensification Component
5.17      The main benefits from this component are long-term increased paddy
production resulting from the improved varieties and cultural techniques
developed at Salakham Research Station and extended countrywide. Immedi&ce
benefits were obtained from the selected seeds supplied under the seed
multiplication program and the fertilizers and insecticides provided under the
project. They have, however, not been quantified and no economic analysis
attempted, as at appraisal.
5.18      Improvement of glutinous and nonglutinous rice varieties is the main
activity of Salakham Research Station. During the 1979-1985 period, several
improved varieties were selected and released. For the wet season, the most
popular improved local (tall) glutinous variety is San Pathong from Thailand,
which is reported to cover 25% of the area. The improved semi-dwarf glutinous
variety RD16 (also from Thailand) covers less than 10% of the area. Salakham
bred crosses which have been released, including Salakham 1-7-1. For the dry
season, nonglutinous high-yialding varieties (HYVs) released include IR 36, B
1014, Cr 203, all of which are reasonably popular. Most local varieties are
photoperiod sensitive and, therefore, cannot be grown in dry season irrigated
areas. Local unimproved varieties yield less than two tons/ha of paddy and
respond poorly to fertilizer application while the improved varieties released
can yield over 4.0 tons/ha with fertilizer and other inputs.
5.19      Trials on improved paddy production techniques at Salakham Research
Station resulted in the development of two agronomic packages which have since
been applied throughout the country, but no data are available on actual areas
covered. A "limited package" applied in the wet season to both tall and semi-
dwarf varieties includes such techniques such as timely sowing, optimum plant
spacing, hand w eding and improved varieties. A "full package" on the other
hand tailored to HYVs growing in the dry season includes the application of
fertilizers and insecticides to the measures of the "limited package". Yields
of up to 3.0 tons/ha could be expected from the "limited package" and over 4.0
tons/ha from the "full package".
5.20      The component also supported foundation seed production by Salakham
Research Station and multiplication of this seed by cooperatives. Between
1979 and 1985, 174 tons of foundation seed of both glutinous and nonglutinous
paddy varieties were produced by the Station. Between 1979 and 1983, 232 tons
of certified seeds were produced by cooperatives in Vientiane Prefecture under
the control of the extension services. Little seed has been produced by the
cooperatives since 1983, due to the low price (same as ordinary paddy) paid by
MOA. Government policy to maintain low seed prices was aimed at making the
selected seed more affordable to farmers, but it resulted in discouraging
contract seed producers and in reducing supply.



- 22 -
5.21      Chemical fertilizers and other chemical inputs were supplied to the
farmers under the rice intensification program. The appraisal program
totalled 4,500 ha, i.e. 500 ha in the first year, 1,500 ha in the second year
and 2,500 ha in the third and final year. About 319 ha was achieved ir the
first year rainy season of 1979. Areas covered in 1980 were 826 ha in the dry
season and 1,428 ha in the rainy season. The 1981 area of 2,153 ha completed
the program. Thus, a total area of 4,726 ha, or 105% of the appraisal target,
was achieved. Yields obtained varied between 2.0 and 3.1 tons of paddy per
ha, as compared to 1.5 tons/ha in the untreated fielcs. No data are available
on the number of farm beneficiaries.



- 23 -
VI. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
6.1       Costs and benefits of the project have been quantified for the
irrigation and pig multiplication components and have been used for the
economic analysis of the entire project. The costs of the rice
intensification component have been omitted from the economic analysis because
the benefits have not been quantified, as at appraisal. The economic
evaluation of local costs and nontraded goods was complicated by the absence
of good indicators for establishing the foreign exchange rate of the Kip.
Therefore, international. comparisons should be treated with caution as they
depend on the foreign exchange rate used.
6.2       ERRs have been estimated for the gravity irrigation schemes, pump
irrigation schemes, the irrigation component, the pig multiplication component
and the entire project. The analysis is carried out in 1986 constant prices,
with past expenditures restated in 1986 price terms by using the Thai
wholesale price index which is considered to be more reliable and close to
prices in Laos. All costs and benefits of international traded goods are
converted into border prices and valued in US$. Local costs and locally
traded goods were adjusted by applying the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of
0.23, based on the official commercial exchange rate of,yS$1.O = K '5 divided
by the assumed shadow exchange rate of US$1.0 = K 150. !
6.3       Price interpolations between 1986 and the projected 1990 and 1995
for paddy in 1986 constant price terms derived from the World Bank's Commodity
Price Forecast have been used. The economic farmgate price of glutinous paddy
is estimated at US$0.11/kg in 1986, increasing to US$0.13/kg in 1990 and
1995. By comparison, the price of US$0.13 was used at appraisal. The price
of finished pigs is estimated at US$1.92/kg liveweight based on the FOB price
of pork in Thailand plus transport and handling charges to Thanaleng and down
to farmgate prices in the project area. For simplicity in the economic
calculations and because quantities are small, the projected 1990 prices of
fertilizers in 1986 constant price terms derived from world market prices have
been used. The economic wage of unskilled labor is estimated at US$0.66 per
man-day based on an assumed shadow wage of US$2.86/md adjusted by SCF of
0.23. Costs of on-farm works and maintenance costs are estimated at US$9.9/ha
(15 md x US$0.66) and US$1.3/ha (2 md x US$0.66), respectively. Operation and
mainLenance costs of pumps are estimated at US$9.2/ha in the wet season and
US$30 in the dry season. Prices of replacement gilts and boars, and feed are
estimated at US$200 and US$400 per head, and US$0.18/kg, respectively, priced
on FOB prices in Thailand, plus transport and handling charges to Thanaleng
and to the project area.
1/   The Government has used al accounting rate of K 95 since 1985.  To
reflect the fact that free market prices in 1986 increased by about 50%
more rapidly than official prices, the shadow exchange rate was adjusted
to K 150 for these calculations.



- 24 -
6.4       A 20-year period has been assumed.  The reestimated ERRs are 15.92
for the gravity irrigation schemes, 6.6Z for the pump schemes, 9.0% for the
whole irrigation component, 7.5% for the pig multiplication component and 8.4Z
for the entire project. These compare with ERRs estimated at appraisal of
40%, 12%, 29%, 24% and 25%. The low ERR of the irrigation component is
explained by the higber proportion of pump schemes than anticipated at
appraisal (75% of total area against 16%). The lower RR of the gravity
schemes as compared to appraisal estimate is mainly due to a lower incremental
annual paddy production of 138%, against 170% estimated at appraisal, in spite
of a higher dry season cropping intensity of 48% against 30%. The low ERR of
the pump schemes reflects the high costs of pumping.
6.5       A present ERR of 7.5% for the pig multiplication component as
compared to 24% at appraisal is due to the fact that only about half of the
appraisal weaner production objective was achieved while capital expenditures
exceeded appraisal estimates. Also. virtually all feeds had to be imported at
high cost.
6.6       An ERR of 8.4% for the whole project is a fair reflection of the
economic performance of the project components. However. should conditions
improve, production increases can be expected, leading to higher ERRs. In
particular, with enhanced O0M of the irrigation schemes and adequate supplies
of inputs and services, higher wet season and dry saason yields can be
expected. For the pump schemes, where dry season water supply is not a
constraint, a dry season cropping intensity of 100% can be achieved.



- 25 -
VII. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Impact of Government Policies
7.1       Government preference for certain nationalities of expatriate
technical advisers resulted in the appointment of specialists who were not
fully effective. Prices of pig-feed, piglets and pig-meat were kept low for
many years, causing losses to the pig multiplication farm, and were not raised
until 1984-85. The policy to promote collectivization of agriculture by
giving priority in the distribution of farm inputs, credit and extension
services to cooperatives was constrained by the lack of these inputs and
services. In particular, institutional credit has virtually not been
available. Government policy on irrigation cost recovery through the agri-
cultural production tax has been adequate to recover O&M costs of the
irrigation schemes and part of the capital costs.
Ministry of Agriculture and Departments
7.2       Delays in the appointment of key personnel, particularly at project
start-up, affected project implementation. Priority should have been given to
the timely appointment of key staff, such as the project coordinator and
subproject directors. Coordinpted supervision of the technical advisers was
inadequate. Insufficient counterpart funds slowed down civil works during the
first two years. There was virtually no planning, programming and budgeting
capability; this was not strengthened until the second and third year of the
project. Activities such as pig fattening were contrary to the objectives and
spirit of the project.
7.3       The performance of the individual Departments of MOA responsible for
executing the project was affected by the shortage of trained personnel. The
Department of Planning could not adequately fulfill its project coordination
and monitoring and evaluation role. There were delays in survey and design
work carried out by the Department of Irrigation. The Departments of
Agriculture and Livestock also suffered from staff shortages.
7.4       Covenants were not, or only partially, complied with.  Annual work
programs were not prepared in a timely manner. Project accounts were not
properly maintained and audits were not carried out. Other covenants which
covered the establishment of a project monitoring and evaluation unit,
adjustment of weaner and pigfeed price levels, the provision of institutional
credit and the establishment of a revolving fund and maize production programs
were not complied with.



- 26 -
VIII. IDA PERFORMANCE
8.1       IDA made allowance for the low absorptive capacity and substantial
operational constraints in the country by keeping the project small and simple
in design and by including a significant technical assistance component.
Flexibility was introduced by not requiring detailed preproject engineering
studies and design.
8.2       However, inclusion of an intensive and modern pig production
component in the project was perhaps premature, given the constraints of feed
shortage and pricing policies. Attempts were made to provide safeguards bf
requiring Government to implement maize and rice bran production programs but
there was no institutional framework for that task. The p.oblem of supply of
protein sources for the feeds was not addressed. All had to be imported,
causing a long-term drain of foreign exchange.
8.3       During implementation, IDA was responsive to the need to revise the
project scope and design (e.g. the change in emphasis from gravity to pump
schemes and the reduction in scope of the pig multiplication component).
However, sufficient attention was not given to the need to train project staff
in IDA procurement and disbursement procedures at the start. This problem
could have been addressed by including a procurement specialist under the
technical assistance component.
8.4       For a difficult environment like Laos, the usual supervision
coefficients applied were too low. Supervision missions were carried out on a
six-month basis between 1978 and 1980. More frequent and shorter missions,
with emphasis on assistance, would have been more effective. The frequency of
missions was increased between 1980 and 1982, but subsequently from 1982 to
1984. supervision missions were carried out on an annual basis, which was
tota.ly inadequate. Transfer of responsibility for project supervision to the
Regional Mission in Thailand had a significant positive impact on project
implementation.
8.5       Execution of the "Coordination Advice and Logistic Support Project"
by IDA in 1980 was an excellent initiative to address project administration
and management problems. The presence of a specialist in the country to
provide assistance to project management staff on planning, programming,
budgeting, accounting, procurement and disbursement at project start-up is a
cost-effective way of addressing implementation bottlenecks.
8.6       IDA addressed the noncompliance of covenants in several ways.  Where
institutional weaknesses were the main cause, for example for the preparation
of accounts and engineering design, technical assistance was provided by
supervision missions. IDA also supported maize production programs through
ARDP II and APSP. Adjustment of weaner and pigfeed prices, however, could not
be addressed in isolation under the project as agricultural prices were
governed by the national agricultural pricing policy under which all prices
were linked.



- 27 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.1       This first IDA Credit to Lao PDR was executed during a period of
institutional and economic instability. Considering the very difficult
operational environment, the fragility of Government institutions, the acute
shortage of skilled manpower and the lack of familiarity with IDA procedures,
the project's achievements are as good as could be expected.
9.2       Irrigation infrastructure has been constructed, or improved, to
supplement wet season and enable dry season irrigation over the project
area. Acceptable paddy yields and production have been obtained but the
remaining civil works have to be completed on the control structures and the
minor canal systems to improve water control and sustain or increase present
yields. The functions of the O&M agency should be expanded and strengthened
to achieve this. The results clearly show that gravity scheme development is
by far the preferred economic option; pump scheme development should not be
envisaged at this stage.
9.3       The appraisal objective for the pig multiplication component was
reduced by 50% due to feed supply and trained manpower constraints. These
have been addressed by the implementation of production programs for feed
ingredients and the centralization of piglet production. Technical
performance coefficients have fallen in recent years but are expected to
improve together with feed supply.
9.4       The rice intensification component fully achieved its objectives.
Research capability was improved and superior rice varieties and cultural
techniques developed. The foundation seed production program proceeded
smoothly but seed multiplication programs carried out by contract farmers
stopped due to low official prices. The input supply program under the
project was fully carried out.
9.5       The project included an essential technical assistance input
executed by FAO.  The recruitment of advisers was consttained by Government
preference for certain nationalities, which resulted in project delays and the
selection of advisers without an optimum profile. The advisers' lack of
familiarity with IDA procedures was an additional constraint.
Lessons Learned
9.6       The main lesson learned is that successful project implementation is
not possible without a proper policy environment.  In this project, the
setting of official prices well below market prices, affected the
profitability and hence the activities of the pig multiplication enterprise.
Government subsidies had to be provided to meet the chronic deficits. Low
official producer prices for maize discouraged production, depriving the
feedmill of raw materials. The lack of Government commitment towards the
provision of institutional credit, chemical fertilizers and other inputs, and
extension services was also a constraint to agricultural development. Poten-
tial benefits from irrigation investments were not fully realized due to the
absence of adequate O&M policies.



- 28 -
9.7       The particular difficulties of operating in a large country with a
s'ibsistence economy, a small and dispersed population, poor communications,
weak institutions, low absorptive capacity and a highly centralized decision-
making process were also exemplified. Therefore, future projects have to be
kept simple in design, with modest objectives and scope. Lines of authority
and procedures in project management should be well-defined and direct. There
should be few project components so as not to stretch scant management and
technical resources. Implementation schedules should be realistic and take
into account the lengthier procedures prevailing in Laos, by incorporating
adequate lead time for procurement and disbursement. The absence of a
reliable data base requires flexibility in project design, so that changes can
be introduced during implementation.
9.8       Technical assistance inputs are necessary, particularly at project
start-up. They should be well-timed, tailored to requirements and furnished
as a team effort. Bank field offices can be very effective in the early
phases of project implementation by providing close assistance in programming,
procurement and disbursement. Grant funds muist be obtained under cofinanc;n-
arrangements with bilateral or multilateral aid sources to finance technic
assistance. Bank supervision missions also play an important technical
assistance role. The Bank must recognize this role and endorse it by
providing higher supervision coefficients. Finally, it is essential to set up
a monitoring and evaluation mechanism at a high level of Government.



- 29 -
Table 1: ACTUAL AND APPRAISAL TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Actual as % of
Appraisal /a                      appraisal
estimates         Actual /b       estimates
Small Irrigation Works
Equipment and vehicles               2,012            2,048             102
Civil works                          5,692            5,868            103
Technical assistance                   745              592             79
Subtotal                          8,449            8,508            101
Rice Intensification
Equipment and vehicles                 276              163             59
Civil works                             28               88            314
Fertilizers and insecticides           227              584            257
Miscellaneous                          131              975            744
Technical assistance                   841              390             46
Subtotal                          1,501            2,200            147
Pig Muliplication
Equipment and vehicles                 196              334            170
Civil works                            718            2,119            295
Incremental worki:ig capital           444              415             93
Technical assistance                   234              581            248
Feed                                   332                -              -
Subtotal                          1,924            3,449            179
Total                            11,874           14,157            128
/a  Appraisal cost estimates including physical and price contingencies.
/b The following prevailing official commercial exchange rates are used:
US$1   K 14 during FY1979-81, K 30 in FY1982 and K 35 thereafter.



Table 2: PROJECT COSTS
(K million, $ thousand) /a
FY 78       FY 79        FY 80         FY 81        FY 82       FY 83       FY 84        FY 85       FY 86        Total
LC    FE   LC    FE    LC    FE    LC        FE    LC    FE   LC   FE   LC         FE    LC    FE   LC    FE   LC        FE
Small Irrigation Works
Equipment and vehicles       -      -    -      730   -   1,318    -         -    -      -   -      -    -        -    -       -    -      -     -    2,048
Irrigation vorks             -      -    -      178   -       74   0.5    376   1.3    -  2.4  279  18.8  1,831  27.2  672  29.4  156   79.6   3,566
Technical assistance         -    36    -       100   -      157    -      186    -   113   -       -    -        -    -       -    -      -     -       592
Subtotal                   -    36    -             -   1,549   0.5    562   1.3  113  2.4  279  18.8  1.,831  27.2  672  29.4  156   79.6   6,206
Rice Intensification
Equipment and vehicles       -      -    -        -   -      163    -        -    -      -   -      -    -         -    -      -    -      -     -       163
Civil works                  -      -   0.2       -  0.3      85   0.5       -  3.5    -   -        -    -                                      1.5       85   D
Technical assistance         -      3    -       69   -       57    -       71    -    80   -    61    -                -      -    -      -     -       341
Fertilizers
and pesticides             -      -    -        -   -      442    -      142    -      -   -      -    -        -    -      -    -       -     -       584
Miscellaneous                -      -   2.7       -  3.1       -   5.0       -   6.1    -   -       -    -        -    -       -    -      -   16.9        -
Subtotal                   -      3   2.9      69  3.4    747   5.5    213   6.6   80   -    61    -            -    -      -    -      -   18.4  1.173
Pig Multiplication
Equipment and vehicles       -      -    -        -   -        -    -      157    -   177   -       -    -        -    -       -    -      -     -       334
Civil works                  -      -   0.9      93  0.9    214   2.6    643   2.9   27  1.1  111   2.0    283    -    23   0.3    -   11.3   1,394
Incremental working capital         -    -        -   -        -    -        -    -      -   -      -    -        -    -       -    -      -   13.7        -
Technical assistance         -    39    -        97   -      159    -      184   5.6  113   -       -    -         -    -      -    -      -     -       592
Subtotal                   -    39   0.9    190  0.9    373   8.2    984   8.5  317  4.2  111   2.0    283    -    23   0.3    -   25.0   2,320
Total                    -    78   3.8  1,267  4.3  2,669  13.7  1,759  15.1  677  6.6  451  20.8  2,114  27.2  695  29.7  156  121.2   9,699
Official commercial
exchange rate               14    14         14           30            35            35         35          35             25
Total US$'OOO              -    78   271  1,267  307  2,669   979  1,759   503  677  189  451   594  2.114   777  695  849   156  4,469   9,699
Total Project Costs - $14.2 million
/a LC in K million; FE in $ thousand.



- 31 -
Table 3: UTILIZATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS (US$)
Appraisal
estimate        Revised    Actual
(1) Equipment and materials procured
pursuant to paragraph B(4) of
Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement                          200,000         150,000    150,000
(2) Other equipment and materials:
vehicles, fertilizers,
insecticides, feed, pigs and
construction materials
(a) Under Parts A, B and C
of the Project                     3,410,000      3,824,000  4,020,428
(b) Under Parts D and E
of the Project                       660,000         826,000    825,845
(c) Under Part F of the
Project                            1,650,000       1,200,000  1,168,957
(3) Civil works under Parts
A to P of the Project                   1,460,000       2,200,000  1,994,828
Unallocated                               820,000               -           -
Cancelled                                       -               -      39,942
Total                                8,200,000       8,200,000  8,200,000



- 32 -
Table 4: FINANCIAL FARM GATE PRICES OF OUTPUTS AND INPUTS
(1986 constant prices)
K
Outputs
Paddy - glutinous (kg)                                                 25
Cull sow (hiead of 120 kg)                                         27,600
Cull boar (head of 150 kg)                                         34,500
Weaner (8 kg)                                                       2,700
Finished pig (kg l.w.)                                                230
Chicken (each)                                                        400
Inputs
Paddy seed - glutinous (kg)                                            22
Urea (kg)                                                              36
16-20-0 (kg)                                                           36
Diazinon (kg)                                                         160
Animal traction (ha)                                                7,500
Unskilled labor (md) - private rate                                   250
- official rate                                 100
Chick (each)                                                           50
Gilt (head of 70 kg)                                               16,100
Boar (head of 70 kg)                                               16,100
Animal feed (kg)                                                       35
Electricity (Kwhr)                                                      5



- 33 -
Table 5: PHYSICAL INPUTS PER HA FOR PADDY
Future without project         Future without project
Wet season       Dry season
Wet season  Dry season   Pump   Gravity  Pump   Gravity
Land preparation (Z)
animal                    100          100        100      100     100      100
Seed (kg)                     70           -         50       60      60       60
Fertilizer (kg)
ammophos                                 -        100       -      150      100
urea                                     -          -       -      100        -
Pesticides (kg)                            -          -        -       5        5
Labor (m.d.)
family                     60            -         80      70       90       P0
hired                       20           -         25       20      30       25



Table 6: FINANCIAL CROP BUDGETS PER HA
Production Costs /a                            Net value
(K/ha)                      Total            (K/ha)
Gross                                               With-             With-
Yield   Price   value            Ferti-   Pesti-   Hired   With    out        With    out
(t/ha)  (K/kg)   (K)    Seed   lizer    cides    labor   labor   labor   labor   labor
(a) Without Project
ti) Wet Season
Rainfed (pump)               1.9       25   47,500  1,540        -        -      5,000   6,540   1,540  40,960  45,960
Rainfed (gravity)            1.7       25   42,500  1,540        -        -      5,000   6,540   1,540  35,960  40,960
(b) With Project                                                                                                                    J
(i) Wet Season
Irrigated (pump)             3.2      25   80,000  1,100   3,600          -      6,250  10,950   4,700  69,050  75,300
Irrigated (gravity)          2.7      25   67,500  1,320         -        -      5,000   6,320   1,320  61,180  66,180
(ii) Dry Season
Irrigated (pump)             3.5      25   87,500  1,320   9,000        800      7,500  18,620  11,120  68,880  76,380
Irrigated (gravity)          3.0      25   75,000  1,320   3,600        800      6,250  11,970   5,720  63,030  69,280
/a Excluding family labor.
/b Hired labor at K 250/day.



Table 7:  FARM BUDGET - AVERAGE FARM OF 1.5 RA AT rULL DEVELOPMENT
Without Project                                              With Project
Pump                    Gravity                        Pump                         Gravity
Wet     Dry   Total        Wet      Dry   Total        Wet        Dry    Total       Wet        Dry      Total
Total paddy area (ha)                          1.5    1.5      1.5        1.5    1.5       1.5         1.5        1.5       1.5       1.5        1.5      1.5
Cropping intensity (X)                         100      -      100        100      -       100         1o0         65       165       100        4R       148
Paddy area cropped (ha)                        1.5     -       1.5        1.5      -       1.5         1.5        1.0       2.5       1.5       0.7       2.2
Production (tons)                              2.9     -       2.9        2.6      -       2.6         4.8        3.5       8.3      4.1        2.1       6.2
Gross value of production (K)               72,500     -   72,500       6,500      -    6,500    120,000    87,500  207,500  102,500    52,500  155,500
Production costs.excluding labor (K)         2,310      -    2,310      2,310      -    2,310        7,050    11,120   18,17n    1,980        4,0n4    5,984
Net value of production (K)                 70,190     -   70,190    62,690        -   62,690    112,950    76,380  189,330  100,520    48,496  149,016
Agricultural tax (K) /a                      2,250/a   -    2,250/a   2,250/a   -    2,250/a    4,500/b             -    4,500    4,500/a          -    4,500
Pumping charges (x) {c                           -     -         -          -      -         -       1,500      1,500    3,000          -          -        -
Net crop income (K)                         67,940      -   67,940    60,440       -   60,440    106,950    76,380  181,830   96,020    48,496  144,516
/I 60 kg of paddy at 25/kg.
/2 120 kg x K 25
/3 40 kg of paddy in the wet season and 60 kg in the dry season.



-    -
Table 8: PRICES OF WEANERS AND PIGS
1982    1983    1984       1985   1986-88
Weaner (K/head of 8 kg)
Official price                         610     610   1,420/a   2,700   2,700
Free market price                    1,200   1,500   2,500      3,000   3,000
Finished Pig (K/kg l.w)
Official price                          40      50       65       200      230
Free market price                       95     120      160       220      250
Cull sow (R'OOO/head of 120 kg)        4.8     6.0      7.8      24.0    27.6
Cull boar (K'OOO/ha of 150 kg)         6.0     7.5      9.8      30.0    34.5
Feed (K/kg)
Official price                           7       7        8        35/b    35/b
/a Average between 2/3 of K 610 and 1/3 of K 2700.
/b For contract pig producers



Table 9: PIG PRODUCTION AND SALES
(Full
Dev.)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987   1988
Herd
Composition
Boars              65      49       52       50      52       53      52       52
Sows                -     340      620     610      610      610     600      600
Gilts             650     249       99      186     112      190     189      190
Weaners             -   2,626   6,415   5,974   5,454   5,953   6,500   7,500
Sales
Cull sows           -      45       29       36     102      135     140      150
Cull boars          -       6        8        7      10        6       6        6
Weaners             -   2,320   6,023   5,514   5,023   5,503   6,020   6,950
Value of Sales
(K illT)
Cull sows                0.22    0.17    0.28    2.45    3.73    3.86    4.14
Cull boars               0.04    0.06    0.07    0.30    0.21    0.21    0.21
Weaners                   1.42    3.67    8.00   13.56   14.86   16.25   18.77
Total (K mill)              1.68    3.90    8.35   16.31   18.80   20.32   23.12



- J6 -
Table 10: OPERATING INCOME OF THE 600-SOW UNIT
(K Million in Current Price)
FY82     FY83      FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Sales (No.)
Cull sows                              45         6        36     102      135      140      150
Cull boars                              6         8         7      10        6        6        6
Weaners                             2,320    6,023    5,514   5,023   5,503   6,020   6,950
Revenues
Cull saws                            0.22      0.17     0.28    2.45    3.73    3.86    4.14
Cull boars                           0.04     0.06      0.07    0.30    0.21    0.21    0.21
Weaners                              1.42      3.67     7.85   13.56   14.86   16.25   18.77
Total revenues                     1.68     3.90       8.2   16.31   18.81   20.32   23.12
Operating Costs
Feed                                 5.26      7.46     8.17   18.63   20.46   20.70   21.00
Labour and services                  1.27      1.46      1.55    1.86    2.22    2.30    2.30
Subtotal                          6.53      8.92      9.72   20.49   22.68   23.00   23.30
Replacement Breeding Stock
- Gilts (No.)                         249       139       186     142      190      200     200
(K Million)                 0.70      0.49     0.85    1.99    3.06    3.22    3.22
- Boars (No.)                          25        17        18      29       20       12       12
(K Million)                 0.02      0.06     0.08    0.41    0.32    0.19    0.19
Subtotal                        0.72      0.55      0.93    2.40    3.38    3.41    3.41
Total Costs                     7.25      9.47    10.65   22.89   26.06   26.41   26.71
Net Operating Income (Deficit)        (5.57)   (5.57)   (2.45)  (6.58)  (7.26)  (6.09)  (3.59)
Source: Agro-Processing Enterprises (APS).



J 
Table 11: FARM BUDGET FOR SMALL PIG PRODUCER
(6 month period from buying weaner to selling finished pig)
K
Housing Expenses                                                            500 /a
Operating Expenses
Purchase 2 weaners                                                      5,400
Feeds                                                                  27,090 /b
Veterinary                                                                540 /c
33,430
Sales
2 finished pigs                                                       46,000
15 chickens                                                            5,250
51,250
Net Benefit                                                          17,820
/a Pig sty with thatched roof, wood planks, at K 3,000, replaced every three
years.
/b 387 kg of feed per pig at K 35/kg (90 kg live weight gain x 4.3 feed
conversion).
/c  2% of cost of feed.
/d Two finished pigs at 100 kg live weight at K 230/kg.
/e 15 chickens feeding on split feed and sold after six months at 1 kg wt. at
K 400 each (price of chick - K 50).



- 4) -
Table 12: PROJECT EXPENDITURES OF GRAVITY AND PUMP SCHEMES (UlS$'00O)
FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FYR2   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Gravity Schemes
Equipment and vehicle          -      219    395       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Civil works                    -        -      -      93     10      77    529    289    131        -
O&M costs                      -        -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -     80
Technical assistance          11       30     47      56     40       -       -      -       -       -
Total                       11     249    442    149       50      77    529    289    131       80
Pump Schemes
Equipment and vehicle          -     511    923        -      -       -       -      -       -      -
Pump and installation          -     440    575    955        -       -       -      -      13      -
Civil works                    -      100      -    321      33    246  1,677  1,057    537  1,040
O&M costs                      -        -      -       -      -      17      51     91    171    186
Technical assistance          25       70    110    130      93       -      -       -       -      -
Total                       25   1,121  1,608  1,406    126    263  1,728  1,148    721  1.30



Table 13: WITHOUT PROJECT AREAS AND PADDY PRODUCTION FROM IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
1988
1981           1982             1983             1984              1985             1986     (Full Development)
Wet     Dry     Wet      Dry     Wet      Dry     Wet      Dry     Wet      Dry     Wet      Dry     Wet     Dry
Cropped Areas (ha)
Pump       -        -   1,120       -    1,540       -    4,230       -    5,390       -    5,500       -    5,500       -
Gravity    -        -       -        -      940      -    1,750       -    2,250       -    2,250       -    2,250       -
Sub-
total    -       -   1,120        -    2,480       -    5,980       -    7,640       -    7,750       -    7,750       -
Total        -             1,120             2,480            5,980            7,840            7,750            7,750
Production (tons)
Pump       -        -   2,016       -    2,772       -    8,037       -   10,241       -   10,450       -   10,450       -
Gravity    -        -       -       -    1,504       -    2,975       -    3,825       -    3,825       -    3,825       -
Sub-
total    -       -   2,016        -                -   11,012       -   14,066       -   14,275       -   14,275       -
Total        -             2,016             4,276           11,012           14,066           14,275           14,275



Table 14: WITH PROJECT AREAS AND PADDY PRODUCTION FROM IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
1988
1981            1982             1983              1984               1985             1986      (Full Development)
Wet     Dry      Wet      Dry     Wet      Dry      Wet      Dry     Wet      Dry      Wet      Dry     Wet      Dry
Cropped Areas (ha)
Pump        -     410   1,120       375    1,540  1,210    4,230  1,635    5,390  1,920    5,500   2,780   5,500   3,570
Gravity    -        -        -        -      940    365    1,750  1,030    2,250    890    2,250   1,020   2,250   1,090
Sub-
total    -      410   1,120       375    2,480  1,575    5,980  2,665    7,640  2,810    7J75    3,8)0   7,750 4,669
Total       410             1,495              4,055            8,645            10,450           11,550            12,410
Production (tons)
Pump        -   1,025   2,800   1,050    4,620  3,630   12,690  4,905   16,709  6,144   17,600  9,730   17,600 12,495
Gravity    -        -        -        -    1,786    840    3,850  2,678    5,175  2,403    5,400  2,856    6,075  3,270
Sub-
total    -   1,025   2,800   1,050    6,406  4,470   16,540  7,583   21,884  8,547   23,000 12,586   23,675 15,765
Total       1,025           3,850             10,876           24,123            30,431           35,586            39,440



- 4., -
Table 15: PUMP OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS FOR 300 HA
Dry Season                Wet Season
Operating days                                 100                         30
Operating hours (8 hr/day)                     800                       240
Electricity (75 Kwhr at K 5/Kwhr)          800 x 75 x 5              240 x 75 x 5
K K 300,000                  K K 90,000
Spares (5% of pump costs)                   K 5,000                    K 5,000
Two full time operators /a at
K 2,365 month each x SCF of 0.23          K 9,140                    K 3,910
Cost/300 ha              K 314,140                  K 96,110
Cost/ha                K 1,047 (US$30)            K 320 (US$9.2)
/a  Permanent employment.  Approximately 70% (8.4 months per year) for the dry
season and 30% (3.6 months per year for the wet season.



- 44 -
Table 16: PRICE DERIVATION: ECONOMIC FAPM ATE PRICES
OF MAIN OUTPUTS AND INPUTS
(1986 Constant Values)
1986           1990            1995
-  --    -- (US$/t     )       -
Paddy
FOB Bangkok, 5% broken rice /a               210             246             252
CIF Thanaleng - glutinous rice /b            214             244             249
- glutinous paddy  c          122             139             142
Transport and handling                        10              10              10
Faragate price                               112             129             132
Fertilizers
Urea, FOB Europe                             107             212             197
CIF Thanaleng                                182             287             272
Transport and handling                        10              10              10
Farmgate price - urea (45%)                  192             297             282
Pork
FOB Bangkok /d                             2,600           2,600           2,600
CIF Thanaleng                              2,750           2,750           2,750
Transport and handling                        10              10              10
Farmgate price - meat                      2,740           2,740           2,740
- liveweight /e            1,918           1,918           1,918
Feed
FOB Bangkok /d                               152             134             135
CIF Thanaleng                                187             169             170
Transport and handling                        10              10              10
Farmgate price                               197             179             180
/a  World Bank's Commodity Price Forecasts, August 1987.
/b 0.85 times 5% broken rice plus $35/t for transport.
Ic 0.57 times glutinous rice.
/d Average fob price.
/e Approximately 70X of meat price.



- 45 -
Table 17: SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC FARMCATE PRICES
OF OUTPUTS AND INPUTS
(1986 Constant Prices)
1986            1990              1995
(U$----------_____
Outputs
Paddy - glutinous (kg)                   0.11            0.13              0.13
Cull sow  (head of 120 kg)               288              288               288
Cull boar (head of 150 kg)                360             360               360
Finished pig (kg 1.w)                    1.92            1.92              1.92
Inputs
Paddy seed - glutinous (kg)                              0.13
Urea (kg)                                                0.30
16-20-0 (kg) /a                                          0.39
Diazinon (kg)                                             4.6
Animal traction (ha) /b                                    49
Unskilled labor (ad) 7I                                  0.66
Gilt (head)                                               200
Boar (head)                                               400
Animal feed (kg)                                         0.18
Electricity (Kwhr)                                       0.14
/a  At 130% of urea price.
/b Financial price adjusted into border price by applying SCF of 0.23.
/c  Shadow wage adjusted into border price by applying SCF of 0.23.



Table IR:  FCON0MIC CnSTS AIn BENFFITS STREAMS FOR PUMP SCHEMES
(USS '000)
FYm8    FY79    FY90    FY81    FYR2    FY83   Fn84    FY85    M6    FY87    m8     FY9    FYo    FYl    MF2    FY93    FY94   FY95-97
A. Without Project
Cultivated area (ha)                      -       -        -        -   1,120   1,540   4,230   5.390   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500    5,500
Production costs /a                       -       -        -        -      124     171      470      598     611      611      611      611     611      611      611      611      611      611
Cross production value                    -       -        -        -      226     310      900   1,147   1,170   1,215   1,259   1,704   1,308   1,354   1,361   1,367   1,373    1,379
Net production value                      -       -        -        -      102     139      430      549      559     604      64R      693      727     743      750      756      762      769
n. With Project
Cultivated area (ha)
Wet Season                             -        -        -        -   1,120   1,140   4,230   5,390   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500    5,500
Dry Seasor.                            -        -        -     410      375   1,210   1,635   1,920   2,790   3,175   3,570   3,570   3,570   3,570   3,570   3,570   3,570    3,57n
Investment costs /b                      28   1,214   1,513   1,119        95      237   1,322       847      536     760        -        -        -       -        -        -        -         -
o06  costs - min systes  /c               -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -      80       SO       80       80      80       80       80       80        80
- tertiary systems /d          -       -        -        I        2       4        8       to       11      11       12       12       12      12       12       12       12        12
- pumps /e                     -       -        -       12      21       50       RR      IO2      134     146      159      158      158     1589    159       158      158       15R
Total Costs                            28   1_214   1.513   1.332        l29     291   1.418       965     681      997      250      250     250      250      250      250      250      250
Productfon Costs
Wet Season /f                             -       -        -        -      184     253      694      984      902     902      902      902      902     902      902      902      902       902
Dry Season 7Z                             -       -        -      in0       93     299      405      475      6RR     786      R84      884      R84     R84      884      884      884       884
Cross Production Value
Vet Season                                -        -       -        -      314     517   1,421   1,871   1,971   2,047   2,121   2,196   2,270   2,281   2,292   2,302   2,313    2,323
Dry Season                                -       -        -      115      119     407      549      688   1,090   1,292   1,5n6   1,559   1,612   1,619   1,627   1,634   1,642    2,649
Net Production Value                         -        -       -       14      155      372     871   2,200   1,471   1,651   1,R41   1,969   2,096   2,114   2,133   2,150   2,169    2,186
Net Reneflta                               (28) (1,214) (1,513) (1,319)        37       81    (547)    135       790      654   1,591   1,719   1,846   1,864   1,RR3   1,900   1,919    1,936
Incremental Net Benefits                   (2R) (1,214) (1,513) (1,319)    (65)    (59)   (977)   (414)    231             50     943   i,t26   1,119   1,121   1,133   1,144   1,157    1.168
ERR I 6.6t
/a  Estimated at USSIII/ha.
ii Table 12 adJusted into 1986 constant prices by using Thai wholesale price Index during (1979-86) as follows:  150, 136, 116, 103, 99, 98. 200, 101 and 100.  Aacmtng 65S FE and
352 LC which has been further adlusted by SCF of 0.23.  On-farm costs have been estimated at 15 sd/ha x md of USS2.9 x SCF.
/c  Assumn9 65h  FE and 752 LE x SCF.
7&  Estimted at 2 sd/hs x DSS2.9 x SCF.
Te  Table 15.
7F  Estited at aSS164/ha.
Tj Fatisated at US$247.5/ha.



Table 19:  FCONO14IC COSTS AND BENEFITS STRFAM4S FOR GRAVITY SCHEMES
(ItSS 00o0)
FY78    FY79    FY80    FYRI    FYR2    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87            s8   FY89    FYn    F1    FY92    FY93    F4   FY95-97
A. Without Proj.ct
Cultivated area (ha)                      -       -        -        -        -     940   1,750   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250    2,250
Production costs /a                       -       -        -        -        -     104      104      250      290     250      250      250      250     25n      250      250      250       250
Gross production value                    -       -        -        -        -     168      333      428     428      445      461      477     490      496      498      500      503       505
Ret production value                     -        -        -        -       -       64      139      178      178     195      211      227      240     246      248      250      253       255
S. W th Project
Cultivated area (ha)
Wet Season                             -             -            -       -      940   1,750   2,250   2.250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250   2,250    2,250
Dry Season                             -        -        -        -       -      365   1,030      89      , 1020   1,050   1,090   1,090   1,090   1,090   1,090         090   1,090    1.090
Inventment costs /b                     21      255      436      112      37       55      387      213      96        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -         -
O&?f costs - main systems /c              -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -       34      34       34       34      34       34       34       34        34
- tertlary systeas /d         -        -        -        -        -       2        4        4        4       4        4        4        4       4        4        4        4         4
Total Costs                           21      255      436      112       37      57      391      217      100      38       3P       38       38      38       38       38       38        38
Froduction Costs
Wet Season /e                             -       -        -        -        -     109      203      261      261     261      261      261      261     261      261      261      261       261
Dry Seasoni 7                            -        -        -        -        -      69      194      167      192      297     205      20m      205     205      205      205      205       205
Cross Productton Value
Wet Season                                -       -        -        -        -      200     431      580      605     667      732      758      784      7R7     791      795      798       802
Dry Season                               -        -        -        -        -      94      300      269      320     356      394      408     422      424      426      428      430       4132
Wet Production Value                         -        -       -        -        -      116      334     421      472      565     660      700      74n      745      751     757      762       768
Net Benefits                               (21)   (255)   (436)   (112)    (37)         59      (57)    204      372      527     622      662      702      707      713     719      724       730
Incremental Net Benefits                   (21)   (255)   (436)   (112)    (37)         (5)   (196)      26      194      332     411      435      462      461     46S      469      471       475
fLRi - IS.92
la  fatimated at ISSII/ha.
7i  table 12 adjusted Into 1986 constant prices by ustnK Thai WPI.  Assuing 651 FE and 352 LC x 0.23.  On-farm costs have been estimted at 15 md/ha a US$2.9 x SCF.
/c  Assuainp 252 FF and 7S2 l.C x SCF.
7;i ittmated at 2 md/ha x US$2.9 x SCF.
7e Fatimated at IISSI 16/ha.
7T feAtimted at US$S88/ha.



- 48  _
Table 20:  ECONOhIC COST AND bENeFIT STRZANS OF ThE PIG IULTIPLICATtON
(USt'000)
FY78    179    rYR0   mFl    F82    FYR3    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88-96    1997
Inveetmnt Costs /a
Working Capital                                  -       38       36      16        -        -                                          (90)
Civil works /b                         -        43       65      197      52       78     170       11        5       -          -        -
Equipment /c                           -         -        -      65      150        -       -        -        -       -          -        -
Purchase ofgtilt. and boars /d         -         -        -      53        -        -       -        -        -       -          -        -
Technical assistance                   59      132      184     190      112        -       -                 -       -          -
Subtotal                            59       175     287      541      330      78      170       11        S                  -      (90)
)perating Costs _.
Feed /e                                -         -        -       -      134      189     181       96      171     199        233      233
Other coa   /a /f                      -         -        -       -       IS       18       19      22       27      28         28       28
Gilts and boars                        -         -        -        -      60       35      44       40       46       45        45       45
Pig fattening costa I L                                           -      251      650     596      542      594     650        751      751
Subtotal                                                        -      460     892      840      700     834      922      1.057   1 057
Total Costs                       59       175     287      541      790     970   1.010       711     839      922      1.057     967
Senefits /l
Cull sow                               -         -        -       -       13        8      10       29       39      40         43       43
Cull boars                             -         -        -       -        2        3       3        4        2       2          2        2
Finished pig /i                        -                  -       -      445   1,156   1,058       964   1,057   1,156       1,334   1,334
Value of herd                          -         -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -          -      196
Total Benefit.                       -         -        -       -      460   1.167   1.071       997   1.098   1.198       1.379   1.575
Net Benefits                       (59)    (175)   (287)   (541)   (330)    197          61      286     259      276        322     608
ERR - 13.5S
a  Table 2 adjusted into 1986 constant prices by using That WPI.
A sasuming 70S FE, and 302 LC x SCF. Taking 100S of building coste of pig multiplication (600 sows) and 502 of land development
and other building costs.
Excluding trucks purchased for the br-1ung farm.
t Imported from Thoiland.
Table 10 adjusted by economic price (Table 17).
Adjusted into 1986 constant prices and assuming 252 PE and 752 LC x SCF.
i Table 11. U55108 per head of finished pig (based on 387 kg feed x USS0.18/kg plus US$1 for veterinary aervice, labor estimated
at 2 hours per day x 30 days x 60 months x $2.9/md x SC? and $7 for housing.
h  Table 10 adjusted by economic prices (Table 17).
Tr 100 kg liveveight x US$1.92/kg x number of veaners in Table 10.



102                                104,                         --  -'-
\          ~~~~~CHINA     *                                                                                               IEPUBLId,'i       !
-220 b ~~~~~~PHONGSAI>'                                  5       0K, 5 ,2I' -'jTES                                  TIAND
BURMA   MA N G--  a,*;   'sua
| ; ~~~~~OUDOX I                                                             7  lii 1 t
12tV                  V7LUAN                                         H  4APHAN
TH~~~~ALNk      $tf MSI>8;'0S     
r    5 1l 1(.s-f/'                                                 ! XIAN  uH                             A ANG 
a   s  < n q                                    x,           X                          ' t!'y   i           00  te~~~7.I~ii~-
ov,%/  < S                              <SM~~~~~~~~~~XAM   t- *                 ;a ,,               1  '~~~~~~~~~~~
TAGIAND          RA  REAIITTO                                                                            t --      4  s-1
AND DEVELOPMENT PROENTIANE                                                      AANEt     lr 
AGRICULTIONAL REA BILIA            TIO                               Saa0 nne 
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '.   60 " 
ffi~~~~~ AIRPORTM CRTISAMUHE                                                                     ~              4
N_4_*_w"~~ dlW/__*"                         r
_ Se  11___X_____NATINAL CA1,TA
2 ~~~~~~~"WE BONDK                                                               THAI dLAN_  =d-I 1 1o .._._i  _



IBRD 12883R
102'30                                     . r h I N A                          ;feog  (N H I N A
LAO  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC                                                              1    NAM
VIENTIANE PROVINCE                                                  '             K. -
PROJECT AREA                                          2)
LAO P.D.R. e-
Ban HmnHoup       -~ E\> ,  z^_,n                                                              1X
:I |   V  0  .                                      , I H A I   N D ,
Ban Phon Ngka                                                           / o                     |/
/                   N     R~~~~~~~~~~~stationl                                                            .6&E  DOR^C_ns AME
yi I-. \*0 ''                                                        o
(                ~~~~~~Ban No D  Tourokn          
// / ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 
10.30  /                             NoroNgo                         lS*In Nophong
Ban Phon Ngoin                Power                               i tSn Dongl
Ban Nol  Tourakon~~~~~~~~~o"-T
Bon Tho Ngoo                                                                  (
-18 ' 0 '                                                                                                       _             /    18to
Project Area
Boundary of Vientiane Plain
Roads                                                                    Kho
- nternationol Boundaries
T    H    A       I   L   A    N    D
0     5      10    15    20
KILOMETERS                                           \II.W*js -                       _F . ........... c-e
102'30'                                                                  103.0
MAY 1988



