Report No 1593a-LA
Lao People's Democratic Republic ihaE   L0p 
Appraisal of the Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Development Project
December 12, 1977
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents
only in the performance of their official duties Its contents may not
otherwîse be disclosed wîthout Worid Bank authorîzation



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Liberation Kips (K) 200
K 1.00 = US$0.005
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)               =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer                  =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =    0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)                  =    39.37 inches
1 square meter (sq m)             10.76 square feet
I cubic meter (cu m)         =    35.31 cubic feet
I millimeter (mm)            =    0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)              =    2.2 lb.
1,000 kilograms              =    1 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
LAO PDR   -     Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
UNDP      -     United Nations Development Program
IDA       -     International Development Association
GOVERNMENT OF THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  . . . .
1.   INTRODUCTION   .i..  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
2. BACKGROUND
General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     1
The Agricultural Sector and Subsectors   . . . . . . . . . .                    3
The Project Area   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    6
3. THE PROJECT
ProIect Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     7
Project Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     7
Detailed Features
Small Irrigation and Drainage Works   . . . . . . . . . .                   9
Rice Intensification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    il
Pig MultiDlication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Cost Estimates   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Financing.                                                         . . . 14
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Environmental Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Agency Responsibilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Technical Assistance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
Annual Work Programs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
5. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
Production and Technological Specifications  . . . . . . . .   22
Demand and Marketing Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Product Prices                                                                 :4
Farm Incomes   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
6.   JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . .   28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. lis contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2 -
AINEXES
1. Small Drainage and Irrigation Component
2. Rice Intensification Component
3. Pig MIultiplication Component
4. Project Cost Summary
5. Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
6. Paddy Production and Farm Budgets
7. Cost and Rent Recovery
8. Economic Evaluation - Small Irrigation and Drainage Works
9. Financial and Economic Evaluation - Pig Production
10. Implementation Schedules and Work Programs; Reporting Requirements
11. Government Procurement Procedures
12. Farmer Credit Arrangements
MAPS
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Project Area - Vientiane Province
CHARTS
Organization of Vientiane Provincial Irrigation Service
Schedule of Construction for Earthworks
Schematic Layout for 300 ha System
Implementation Schedule
Irrigation
Rice Intensification
Pig Multiplication
Proposed Cropping Calendar
Government Procurement Procedures



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMIOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        The Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic has requested
IDA assistance to carry out the Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development
Project in Vientiane Province in which the capital city of Vientiane is located.
It would be the first IDA-financed project in the country. The project com-
prises the rehabilitation and expansion of small irrigation and drainage
systems to serve a total area of about 8,300 ha at an average investment cost
of US$950/ha; the provision of an agronomic package including improved seeds,
fertilizer and pesticides over some 2,500 ha; the improvement of seed production
and rice research facilities at Salakham and Hat Dok Keo Research Stations;
and the construction and operation of facilities for the production of about
14,400 piglets per year for release for fattening by small livestock operators.
The project also provides for training in survey, design and appraisal of
irrigation works and for technical assistance.
2.        Major Government objectives in the agricultural sector are to achieve
self-sufficiency in food production and reduction in slash and burn shifting
cultivation. Priority is given to Vientiane Province initially, and the project
would help to meet both objectives by increasing rice production on the l-Gwland
paddy lands, hence reducing the need for slash and burn cultivation, and by
expanding pig meat production.
3.        The deficit in rice, the staple food, and in pig meat, the main
source of protein, has been a continuing problem. Rice imports in 1976 were
estimated at about 100,000 tons. In the same year, imports of pigs were
restricted in the first nine months to 4,500 piglets. Approximately 440,000 ha
of lowland paddy, of which less than 5% is irrigated, is under cultivation in
the country. Average paddy yields in these areas are low at about 1.2 tons/ha
and considerable opportunities exist for major yield improvement through con-
struction of irrigation works and supply of agricultural inputs. The proposed
project would be a lead project and would assist Government in developing
experience in operating rice improvement and pig multiplication programs.
4.        Total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.87 million of which
US$8.43 million or approximately 71% would be in foreign exchange. IDA would
finance the foreign exchange component except for technical assistance
(US$1.7 million) which would be financed by UINP. IDA would also finance
local costs equivalent to US$1.5 million. Equipment, vehicles and materials
costing about US$5.7 million would be procured after international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Civil works would not be
suitable for international competitive bidding because of their nature and
would be carried out by force account (US$4.5 million). Fertilizers, insec-
ticides, pigs and feed amounting to US$1.1 million would be procured by
soliciting at least three bids in neighboring countries.



- ii -
5.        The Directorate General of Agriculture would be the executing
agency for the project. Project activities would be carried out by the
Directorates of Irrigation, Agriculture and Livestock, within the Directorate
General and by the Vientiane Provincial Irrigation Service. These organiza-
tions, with the assistance of the technical assistance provided under the
project, would be able to implement the project successfully.
6.        At full development of the irrigation component, eight years after
commencement of work, annual production from the project area is expected
to reach 25,700 tons paddy compared with the current level of production of
9,900 tons paddy. The increased production of about 9,500 tons rice (about
16,000 tons paddy) would raise farmers' incomes and make a contribution to
the rice requirements of Vientiane Province by meeting about 30% of Vientiane
Province's rice deficit. Five years after commencement of work piglet
production is expected to reach 14,400 per year providing about 70% of
Vientiane City requirements.
7.        There is a lack of data on the total net income of small farmers.
However, some 90% of the population of the country are directly involved in
agriculture and the average GNP per capita is estimated to be US$90. The
irrigation component of the project is expected to increase the annual per
capita income on a 1.5 ha rice farm by about US$40 where farmers accept the
agronomic package. In the livestock component the average small farm (fat-
tening two to three pigs per year) net income is expected to increase by
about US$35-50.
8.        The project would bring improved water management to about
5,500 paddy farmers and provide piglets for fattening to about 4,500 small
livestock operators. The estimated economic rate of return of the overall
project is 25%. The estimated economic rates of return of the irrigation
and pig production components are about 29% and 24% respectively. The rates
of return are only moderately sensitive to a decrease in yields or an
increase in costs.
9.        The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$8.2 million
on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be the Lao People's Democratic
Republic.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Governient of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) has
requested IDA assistance in financing the Agricultural Rehabilitation and
Development Project. The proposed credit would be the first IDA credit to
the Republic. The project would be located in Vientiane Province and involves
construction and rehabilitation of small irrigation and drainage works;
intensification of rice production through provision of an agronomic package
to rice farmers; support for production of rice seeds and improvement of rice
cultivation techniques; and establishment of pig multiplication units for
supply of weaners to small farmers and fattening organizations. The project
would also include planning of further irrigation works programs in the
other provinces in the country.
1.02      The project was identified by government agencies.  This report is
based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the Lao People's
Democratic Republic in October 1976 comprising Messrs. B.S. Gray, D. Martinusen
(Bank), A. Delon (FAO/CP) and B. Goodier (consultant). Mr. M. Walshe (consult-
ant) participated with mission members in post appraisal discussions in
Vientiane in February/March 1977. Mr. D. Papavassiliou assisted in the
economic and financial analysis for this report.
2. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Location, Land and Climate.  The Lao PDR with an area of about
236,000 sq km is bordered on the north by China, on the east by Viet Nam, on
the south by Cambodia and on the west by Thailand and Burma. The country is
situated approximately between latitudes 140 and 220 30'N, extending from
north to south about 1,000 km in length and varying from 150 to 400 km in width.
2.02      Two main regions can be distinguished:  a mountainous area in the
northern and eastern parts with peaks of 2,000 m or more with highlands and
plateaux occurring at times at over 1,000 m; and a lowland area more suitable
for agriculture, stretching along the left bank of the Mekong River, from the
Vientiane Plain in the north to the Pakse Plain in the south. On the east
the Annam Cordillera forms the border between the Lao PDR and Viet Nam.



- 2 -
2.03      High temperature, humidity and rainfall characterize the climate.
Mean temperatures in the lowlands range between about 21 degrees Centigrade
in December/January and 29 degrees Centigrade in April. Rainfall is governed
by the monsoon which generally commences in May and ceases in October. Although
annual average rainfall in the lowlands is about 1,800 mm/year, it is irregular
both in onset at the start of the wet season and in distribution with about 80%
of rainfall occurring in the five-month wet season.  The lowland environment
is well suited to rice and pig production.
2.04      General Economy.  Laos is one of the least developed nations in the
world. The country is landlocked, deficient in food and basic needs and faces
serious obstacles to development after nearly three decades of war. There are
about 3.4 million people, about 90% of whom live within rural areas. Agriculture
is the dominant sector, accounting for nearly half of GNP of about $300 mil-
lion (or $90 per capita) in 1976. Except for a few saw mills and wood proces-
sing factories producing for export, most industries produce simple consumer
goods. The Lao economy consumes considerably more than it produces and is
heavily dependent on external assistance for its survival. Since 1975, the
economy has suffered from declining activity, severe shortages of supplies
and foreign exchange as well as financial instability, due primarily to internal
political upheavals and a sharp decline in the real incomes of the population,
particularly in the urban areas. Indications are that since early 1977, the
economic situation is beginning to stabilize gradually. The short-term
outlook is clouded, however, by a severe drought in the 1977 planting season,
which is expected to reduce the current rice crop by about 20-30%, thereby
doubling the rice import requirements in 1978. The Government is determined
to restructure the economy along socialist lines by promoting joint farming
and controlling marketing of basic food and export products as well as basic
industries. It has already nationalized the major means of transport and the
banking sector. The country's development objective is self-sufficiency in
food. A three year development plan is being prepared which is expected to
give priority to increasing agricultural productivity and exports. Public
investments will be concentrated in irrigation, livestock and fisheries
development, rehabilitation of industries and development of agro-industries
and wood processing industries.



-3-
The Agricultural Sector and Subsectors
2.05      In view of the unsettled conditions prevailing in the country during
recent years, the new Government of the Lao PDR has not yet been able to
finalize national accounts. It is therefore difficult to quantify the
contribution of the agricultural sector to the national economy as a whole.
Reliahle agricultural data are lacking and it will be some time before
meaningful statistics can be assembled./l
The Agricultural Sector
2.06      Role in the Economv.  The dominance of the sector in the economy
can be deduced from the following information:
(a) approximately 90% of the population derives the bulk of its income
fron agriculture, through:
- the cultivation of some 700,000-800,000 ha of annual crops
- the utilization of about 1 million ha of coarse pasture
- the partial exploitation of forests whose. total area is estimated
at 15 million ha;
(b) the products of the sector are the raw materials of the main indus-
tries (sawmills, plywood factories, rice mills, distilleries)
presently operating in the country;
(c) agricultural products (timber, coffee, seed cotton, hides and leather)
accounted for over 90% of recorded exports between 1971 and 1974. The
percentage would have been even higher if unrecorded exports had been
included.
2.07      Glutinous rice, the staple food, accounts for 90% of the area under
cultivation each year. The annual area planted with rice in recent years is
estimated at about 770,000 ha, of which about 440,000 is grown on lowland
soils and 330,000 on upland soils subject to slash and burn cultivation.
Annual rice production during 1976 was estimated at 550,000-575,000 tons
for an annual consumption requirement of the order of 650,000-675,000 tons.
Although the country as a whole is deficient in rice, there are some surplus
areas in the south and deficit areas in the north. Due to difficulties
in transportation of rice arising from inadequate communications and high
transport costs Government has decided that each province should be self-
sufficient in rice production. Rice imports for 1976 are estimated at
/1 Excepting the production, consumption and trade figures for 1976, the
data in this chapter are derived from "Some Findings Relative to the
Reconstruction and Economic Development of Laos," Bank Report of April
1975.



- 4 -
about 100,000 tons (Annex 1). Other crop production is relatively small,
estimates in 1974 being maize 27,200 tons; vegetables 21,600 tons; tobacco
4,200 tons; cotton and coffee, 2,100 tons each. Fertilizer use is very
limited, estimated imports in 1976 being 350 tons. Application is largely
confined to rice nurseries, vegetables, tobacco and the small area of irri-
gated dry season rice.
2.08      National data on livestock production are lacking. However, most
farmers raise buffalo as draft animals and have one or two pigs and 10-20
poultry. There are a few relatively small commercial enterprises for pig and
poultry production in Vientiane Province. The latter are fed on imported
concentrates mixed with locally grown maize and rice bran. Imports of livestock
and livestock products for the first nine months in 1976 were restricted to
day-old chickens (170,300 equivalent to US$52,000), piglets (4,500), con-
centrates (US$137,000), medicines (US$15,000), and equipment for poultry
production (US$6,800).
2.09      Assuming that about 400,000 families are involved directly in
agricultural production, the average farm area under cultivation would be
of the order of 1.5-2.0 ha. The cropping index is low, most of the land
being occupied with rainfed rice for only four to five months of the year.
2.10      Primary forests cover approximately 60% of the total area of the
country and are considered one of the main sources of the country's wealth.
A forest inventory is, however, required as a basis for rational planning of
timber extraction and processing.
2.11      Although ecological conditions are generally favorable for agricul-
tural production in many regions of the country and the land ratio of cultiv-
able land to population is relatively high, agricultural production does not
appear to have grown in line with population increase in recent years. This
îs not unexpected in view of the instability following 30 years of war and
the displacement of some 700,000 persons from their land. Apart from the
disadvantage conferred by the country's landlocked position, constraints on
agricultural development on a national scale are the shortage of qualified
and experienced staff, the inadequate institutions for extension, farm input
and credit delivery, the lack of organized and controlled marketing arrange-
ments, the traditional nature of agricultural production, the lack of resource
and feasfbility studies upon which to base development projects, and the
inadequacy of land communications.
2.12      Up to now the new Government's attention has been largely absorbed by
the need to establish and consolidate the new political system. A development
plan is not yet available but Government's broad agricultural directives aim
at appropriate and early action to reduce and remove the constraints Io
development initially in the key Vientiane Province. Priority is given to
self-sufficiency in food production, followed by improved forest exploitation
and reduction of slash and burn cultivation. Further diversification of
agricultural production is important to produce raw materials (maize, sorghum,



seed legumes and cotton) for the establishment of agroindustries and arabica
coffee for export (in the south). The new Government is approaching its
development problems in a pragmatic manner with insistence within the Government
service upon honesty, discipline and cooperation. Much consideration is being
given to the development of organizations at village level, which will provide
appropriate inputs and credit, extension and advice, incentives and organized
marketing arrangements. There are indications that Government will be able to
demonstrate the advantages of group self-help activities among farmers, which
could have important consequences for reduction in irrigation, construction and
operation and maintenance costs.
The Rice and Pig Production Subsectors
2.13      Less than 5% of the rice area is irrigated.  Production is therefore
dependent upon wet season rainfall which is unreliable in terms of both timing
and quantity (Annex 1). Consequently, where precipitation is inadequate, the
returns to fertilizer application are low and farmers have developed a low
input, low risk system of rice production. The yield of rainfed lowland rice
is estimated at an average of 1.2 ton/ha paddy and upland rice at an average of
about 0.8 ton/ha paddy./l The major limiting factor to yield improvement is
good water management. Full advantage should be taken of the opportunities to
both rehabilitate and further develop irrigation works.
2.14      Although pig production is still largely traditional, modern produc-
tion facilities exist in the form of the government-owned pig multiplication
and fattening units at Nanockhum near Vientiane; the 2,000 ton/year feed mill
in Vientiane; the proposed 20,000-25,000 ton/year feed mill near Vientiane,
to be constructed in 1977; the modern abbatoir in Vientiane with a capacity
of 200 pigs and 20 cattle per day.
2.15      The main institutions in the rice and pig production subsectors are
the Ministry of Agriculture through its Directorates of Agriculture, Irrigation
and Livestock, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce which organizes imports of
food and supplies through its Directorate of External Commerce, the National
Bank of Laos which will make arrangements for credit delivery to farmers and
for financing of development projects and provincial institutions with their
hierarchy of organization at province, district and village levels.
2.16      Government intervenes in three main ways:  the provision of regu-
latory, research and extension services; control over prices of inputs and of
agricultural products; and implementation of development projects financed by
external aid. This intervention is still not fully developed but can be
expected to be strengthened as the Government becomes able to give priority
attention to agricultural development and as the experience built up in
the proposed agricultural development program for the key Vientiane Province
is used as a model for the other provinces. Fortunately, the conditions in
Vientiane Province are fairly similar to those of the lowland areas of the
other main provinces in which settled agriculture is practiced.
/1  UNDP/Fï. a-oject No. LAO/76/008/A/01/12 (1976).



The Project Area
2.17      General.  The project is located in Vientiane Province, one of 13
provinces in the country. The province is also the location of Vientiane, the
national capital and seat of Government, sited on the bank of the Mekong
River. Trade exchanges between the Lao PDR and NE Thailand are carried out
through the port of Thangaleng some 20 km south of Vientiane and Nong Khai on
the opposite side of the Mekong. The province is about 26,000 sq km in size
stretching about 140 km from north to south and 300 km from east to west.
The northern part of the province is hilly; the southern part, known as the
Vientiane Plain, is fairly typical of the lowland region of the country.
The plain is surrounded to the north, east and west by a range of hills and
the south is bordered by the Mekong River. A major feature is the Nam Ngum
River which bisects the plain in a north-south direction eventually flowing
into the Mekong. The total areas of lowland and upland rice in the Vientiane
Province are estimated to be 100,000 ha and 15,000 ha respectively.
2.18      The population of the province (urban and rural) and of Vientiane
City is estimated to be 600,000 and 120,000 persons respectively. The
province (khoueng) is organized in a hierarchy consisting of districts
(muang), subdistricts (tasseng) and villages (ban).
2.19      Soils, Land Use and Climate.  The land in the Vientiane Plain is
fairly flat, intersected by extensive areas of slightly raised land. The
former areas are alluvial hydromorphic soils cultivated with permanent
lowland paddy; the latter are upland soils of low inherent fertility, broadly
classified as red yellow podzolics.  Parts of these upland soil areas are
still under forest while considerable areas are cropped with upland rice
under a shifting cultivation system ("rai"). On the fringes of the plain
where land is steeper this practice has created serious soil erosion problems.
The area in which the project would be located is not subject to serious
flooding.
2.20      The climate of Vientiane Province is fairly comparable to the other
lowland areas of the country (para. 2.03). Yields of rice are low and dependent
upon wet season rainfall (para. 2.13). The low cropping index in the lowland
rice areas (five months cropping per year) and the low yields are due in con-
siderable measure to inadequate water supply. Intensification of cropping would
reduce the need for shifting cultivation which is wasteful cf forest, soil and
water resources. Apart from the lowland and upland soils, the other main soil
groups under cultivation in the province are the extensive levee soils along the
banks of the Mekong and Nam Ngum rivers. These soils bear a- variety of crops
including maize, soybeans, tobacco, fruits and vegetables.
2.21      Land Tenure and Farm Size.  Most of the land in Vienltiane Province
is farmed in owner-operated units. Data on farm and family size, agricultural
practices, crop and livestock production are still under collection. However,
the average farm family in the Vientiane Plain is estimated to have approxi-
mately 5-7 persons with 1-1/2 - 2 ha of lowland rice land and a rather
smaller area of upland soil. Farmers grow rice, a few coconuts and fruit
trees around the house, rear one or two buffalo, a few pigs and 10-20 poultry.



- 7 -
2.22      Rural Infrastructure.  The majority of the villages in the Vientiane
Province lack modern public infrastructure although transport infrastructure
between the larger villages is adequate to current traffic needs. The cart
tracks leading to the smaller villages are frequently impassable to freight
and passenger vehicles for 2-3 months in the wet season although still
passable to farm carts and bicycles.  Considering the many competing demands
for finance for rehabilitation throughout the country the standard of trans-
port infrastructure in the province can be considered as adequate at present.
3. THE PROJECT
Project Summary
3.01      The proposed project would lead to intensification of rice produc-
tion in the lowland areas of Vientiane Province through improved water manage-
ment to about 5,500 small farmers or 7% of the rice farmers in the province
and provision of an agronomic package (seeds, fertilizer and insecticides) to
about 1,600 small farmers. Small farm activities would be further intensified
and diversified through organization of a regular supply of weaned piglets for
fattening. During the project, the planning and implementation capacity of the
government agencies involved in rural development would be developed. The
project has the following components:
(a) construction and operation and maintenance of small irrigation and
drainage works to serve about 3,900 ha of permanent lowland rice;
(b) rehabilitation and operation and maintenance of small irrigation and
drainage works on about 4,400 ha of similar land;
(c) research and development of techniques for lowland rice cultivation;
(d) intensification of lowland rice production through demonstration,
training and provision of farm inputs initially over 2,500 ha and
eventually, through post project activities, over the entire area
irrigated under the project;
(e) establishment of 10 pig multiplication units with an eventual total
production capacity of about 14,400 weaners per annum for fattening;
(f) technical assistance for planning and design of small irrigation
works, for design and management of pig multiplication units and
for research and development of rice cultivation techniques.
The components of this project are described below and further details are
given in Annexes 1 through 3.
Project Formulation
3.02      In accordance with Government priorities, this first project would
be restricted to Vientiane Province for the following reasons:



(a) about 17% of the population of the country live in Vientiane
Province. The province has a deficit of about 30,000 tons in rice
production and a deficit in pig production. Government policy
is that each province should be self-sufficient in food in view
of the mountainous nature of much of the country and the consequent
difficulties of transporting food supplies between provinces. This
policy is consistent with the long-term Government strategy of
creating considerable provincial autonomy.
(b) the standards of rural infrastructure and the quality of technical
staff are at a higher level in Vientiane Province than elsewhere,
allowing for rapid implementation and early project benefits;
(c) the province, having the above advantages, is to be used as a pilot
operation to obtain administrative experience in irrigation, rice
intensification and pig production for later transfer to other
provinces.
3.03      The purpose of the project is to help achieve, with some urgency, the
Government's objectives of increasing rice and meat production in Vientiane
Province and of strengthening the key government agencies involved.
3.04      The main constraints in achieving the project objectives are inade-
quate water management in the rice areas, the lack of a proven agronomic
package for rice production, inadequate supplies of weaners to the small farmer
and other fattening organizations, scarcity of experienced technical staff and
lack of credit institutions and marketing organizations.
3.05      Against this background, Government has requested IDA to assist
in designing and financing a project t) alleviate these constraints. The
scarcity of skilled technical personnel, the lack of experience in project
planning and implementation and the inadequacy of institutional arrangements
are such that projects should be relatively small, simple in design, limited to
a few components and straightforward in terms of implementation procedures.
The scarcity of local currency in relation to the magnitude of the rehabilita-
tion/development task ahead is such that expenditure should be largely limited
to directly productive investment related to the intensification of yields of
already cultivated land rather than expansion. The urgency of the situation
is such that project investment should also be directed to those avenues which
promise the most immediate returns. With respect to water management much
attention in the past has been focused on large hydraulic schemes which are
relatively high in investment cost, have a long gestation period and require
experienced management. These are not suitable for this first project. On the
other hand, there are throughout the country thousands of perennial streams,
which if harnessed through small irrigation works, could provide assured water
during the wet season and also allow some dry season cultivation at a relatively
modest cost and with fairly rapid benefits. The irrigation component of this
project would be limited to such works which are less demanding in implementa-
tion capacity than large schemes and would help build up capacity to replicate
this approach where appropriate in other provinces at a later date.



-9-
Detailed Features
3.06      The major features of the main project components are presented
below.
Small Irrigation and Drainage Works
3.07      The component involves the construction of new irrigation facil-
ities and the rehabilitation of existing facilities over some 8,320 ha of
permanent rice land in up to 48 small schemes, varying from 100 to 300 ha
each. Standards would be similar to those adopted for IDA projects else-
where. The project would include:
(a) construction of new irrigation and drainage facilities for
about 3,900 ha of rainfed rice;
(b) rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage facilities
serving a total area of about 4,420 ha;
(c) procurement of equipment and vehicles;
(d) provision, under arrangements between Government and UIJDP of tech-
nical assistance through the employment of two irrigation special-
ists in (i) design and construction of small irrigation works and
(ii) planning and appraisal of irrigation works projects and programs.
3.08      Project Works.  The proposed schemes can be classified as five
main types outlined below. The scheme designs which have been used as a basis
for project costing are based upon actual schemes constructed previously with
assistance from AID. The senior irrigation staff have experience of the
operation of these schemes. A detailed description is provided in Annex 1.
New Schemes
Houei Son Type
(a)  This involves construction of headworks and distribution facil-
ities for nine rice areas comprising about 2,700 ha; these are
gravity schemes to irrigate an average of 300 ha per scheme.
Ban Cheng Type
(b)  Pump irrigation facilities would be installed for some four rice
areas comprising about 1,200 ha; these are pump schemes supplied
by the Nam Ngum River to irrigate an average of 300 ha per scheme.
Rehabilitation Schemes
Ban Ylai Type
(c) Irrigation facilities, where headworks and distribution systems
have been inadequately maintained, would be rehabilitated in
some 16 rice areas comprising about 1,920 ha; these are
gravity schemes to irrigate an average of 120 ha per scheme.



- 10 -
gan Nakeo Type
(d) Some 16 temporary earth and brushwood dams would be replaced
with new irrigation facilities.  Distribution systems for some
16 rice areas comprising about 1,600 ha would be realigned and
improved; these are gravity schemes to serve an average of 100 ha
per scheme.
Pak Pung Type
(e) Three drainage control systems for three rice areas comprising
about 900 ha would have channels realigned and strengthened, and
gates replaced; these systems would be located in areas of on
average 300 ha located near the Mekong and lower Nam Ngum rivers.
3.09      Rice has been grown in the project area for many years.  On-farm
development work such as land clearing is not required. The distribution
system would consist of a main canal and secondaries with offtakes at approx-
imately 200 m intervals. Collection drains would be installed at the same
interval.  Field distribution would be by means of small pipe offtakes, field
ditches and plot to plot. Canals would be unlined. About 145 km of roads for
access and operation and maintenance would be built. Estimated per hectare
costs for each scheme type are provided in Annex 1.
3.10      Water Supply, Demand and Quality.  The water supply for the
gravity irrigation facilities would be many streams which rise in the
hills surrounding the Vientiane Province and Plain. The pump irrigation
schemes would be supplied by the Nam Ngum River itself. The water supply
in this river would never be limiting for the pump projects. With regard
to the gravity schemes there are few available stream flow data.   However,
on the basis of past experience with such schemes in the project area the
water supply is generally known to be sufficient to provide the necessary
supplementary irrigation in the wet season and to allow 25-50% cropping
in the dry season. The project involves a planning period i-n year 1
during which survey teams would carefully determine the probable water supply
for all schemes prior to a decision on construction. In -hat some 90 pos-
sible schemes have been identified in the province, there iJs ample scope
for selection of 48 schemes with a reliable water supply.
3.11      Water samples have not been analyzed.  However, water from these
rivers and streams has been used to irrigate soils and crops in the area
for many years.
3.12      Approach to Engineering.  Detailed planning studies have not yet been
carried out. However, requirements for new irrigation structures and for
structures in schemes identified for rehabilitation are based on the works
formerly constructed under AID assistance. Operation and maintenance road
requirements were based on Provincial Irrigation Service estimates of canal
capacity and needs within the service area. Maps of 1:10,000 scale are available.
Detailed survey, design and final selection of schemes would be carried out
during the project by the Provincial Irrigation Service as part of preconstruction
activities. These schemes would then be submitted to the Directorate of Irriga-
tion for approval on engineering, agronomic and economic silteria.  At negotia-
tions agreement was reached between Government and IDA on toe criteria for



- il -
evaluation of specific proposals for irrigation schemes (Annex 1, para. 16 and
Annex 1, Appendix B). In addition, during negotiations agreement was reached
that prior to commencement of construction, the following would be submitted
to IDA for approval; (i) standard designs and specifications for each of the five
types of schemes and (ii) summary data forms for each individual scheme. Wherever
possible, approval by IDA would be given during supervision visits.
Rice Intensification
3.13      This component comprises research and development of techniques of
rice cultivation, rice seed production and creation of a revolving fund for
provision of an agronomic package to some 2,500 ha of land under satisfactory
water management. Project works would be located on small farms in the Vien-
tiane Plain, at Salakham Research Station and Hat Dok Keo Research Station.
Further details are given in Annex 2. These research stations located a few
kilometers from Vientiane have basic facilities which are not sufficiently
utilized due to a serious scarcity of finance, equipment and trained personnel.
Salakham is the main center for rice research in the country and has in the
past along with Hat Dok Keo conducted satisfactory crop research work. It has
the following priorities:
(a) production of improved (mainly local) varieties of rice for
release to farmers;
(b) research and development of improved cultivation techniques.
3.14      The-proposed works would:
(a) finance additional irrigation facilities, equipment, vehicles,
pesticides, insecticides, and a proportion of operating costs for
Salakham and Hat Dok Keo seed production and rice research work
over a three-year period; finance transmission of electricity on
Salakham;
(b) increase the annual production of rice seeds on Salakham and
Hat Dok Keo from 8 to 75 tons, sufficient for 10,000 ha, assuming
that farmers' seed is changed every four years;
(c) plan and implement a research and development program of rice
cultivation techniques for both rainfed and irrigated rice, through
field experiments, demonstration plots on some 40 ha of farmers' land
and training at Salakham of about 300 selected farmers per year;
(d)  finance one year's requirement of fertilizers and insecticides (the
agronomic package) for any 2,500 ha of rice land in the Vientiane
Province where water management and control are satisfactory. The
agronomic package (Annex 2) is based on the results of past research
by Salakham. This activity would create a revolving fund for provi-
sion of these basic production inputs; and
(e) provide, under arrangements between Government and UNDP, technical
assistance in the form of one rice management specialist for three
years.



- 12 -
To promote the utilization of improved seeds, the purchase price would
initially be equivalent to that of paddy. As demand increased a small
premium would be added to the price.
3.15      Credit for the agronomic package would be provided through the
National Bank of Laos. Details of plans and procedures satisfactory to IDA
for: setting up and managing the revolving fund; distribution of seeds, ferti-
lizers and insecticides; delivery and recovery of credit are given in Annex 12.
Pig Multiplication
3.16      This component would establish a government service providing
regular supplies of weaned piglets and feed to small livestock farmers and
to government organizations for fattening. The project would serve the
Vientiane Province through an annual production of about 14,400 weaners.
Government is already operating a successful pig breeding and fattening
operation at Nanockhum farm near Vientiane, producing about 600 fattened
pigs per year. The project would set up 10 one ha units each of 120 sows,
in locations within a 35 km radius of Vientiane and close to the fattening
operators.  The units would be sited on government land in flood free areas.
Two of the ten units would be located on a site already cleared at Nong
Theng about 10 km from Vientiane. The sites of the other units would be
agreed with IDA during implementation and could include further sites at
Nong Theng and Don Doc (14 km from Vientiane) where ample suitable land is
available. During negotiations assurances were given that Government would
provide 10 ha of land for the units. The proposed works which are described
in greater detail in Annex 3 would be:
(a) site preparation and fencing;
(b) buildings for animals, feedstores, workshops, offices and housing
for personnel;
(c) drainage, water and power supplies;
(d) equipment, machinery, and vehicles;
(e) incremental working capital for multiplication units for one year to
cover the purchase of breeding stock and start-up capital for pig
feeds, drugs, labor and other short-term inputs; credit for purchase
of pig feed by livestock operators; and
(f)  technical assistance of two specialists to be provided under arrange-
ments between Government and UNDP during three years, in (i) design
and construction of pig housing, and (ii) pig husbandry and management.
3.17      The pig multiplication units and subsequent fattening operations would
be dependent upon importation of concentrates and local production of broken
rice, rice bran and maize. Assurances were given at negotiations that Government
would implement programs to ensure production of maize and rice bran sufficient



- 13 -
to meet the needs of the project. These programs could include the setting of
a maize price attractive to producers. Furthermore, it has been agreed that
Goverment and IDA would prepare a second Agricultural Rehabilitation and
Development Project which would include support for maize production in
Vientiane Province. At negotiations assurances were also obtained that
Government would set and maintain the prices of feed, piglets and pig meat at
levels sufficient to yield an annual financial rate of return by the pig
multiplication units acceptable to IDA and provide an incentive for producers
to continue to purchase and fatten piglets. The prices would be set and
maintained to achieve a rate of return of not less than 10% and the Government
would review such prices annually to ensure that the rate of return as well as
producer incentives are maintained (prices to be set initially are given in
para. 5.13). Credit for pig feed would be provided through the National Bank
of Laos. Plans and procedures for distribution of feed supplies and piglets
to livestock operators; and for delivery and recovery of credit are given in
Annex 12.
3.18      The project would run in parallel with the proposed UNDP project
for production of breeding stock (Annex 3). The UNDP breeding project
commenced in early 1977 and gilts would be provided to the pig multiplication
project from 1981 onwards. Under the UNDP project training of livestock
extension officers and of farmers would be carried out and would be adequate
for the requirements of this project component. In addition, Government and
FAO have arranged for the training of 30 veterinary technicians under a
technical cooperation program.
Implementation Schedule
3.19      The irrigation component would be implemented over a period of five
years, the pig multiplication and rice intensification components over four
and three years respectively (Annex 10). Survey and design of irrigation
facilities would begin in late 1977 with the first construction activities
commencing in the dry season starting October 1978, the remainder being spread
over the following four years. Where only relatively minor rehabilitation works
are required, construction may commence earlier. Design of pig multiplication
units and housing would start in early 1978 and ten units would be constructed
during the ensuing three years. The seed production and rice research and
development facilities would be fully developed by end 1979. The cumulative
area under good water control over which the agronomic package would be
provided would be 500 ha in 1978; 1,500 ha in 1979 and 2,500 ha in 1980.
Cost Estimates
3.20      General.  Total project costs are estimated at US$11.87 million of
which US$8.43 million or 71% is foreign exchange. Project costs are based
on quantity estimates made by the appraisal mission and staff of the Director-
ate General of Agriculture in the field. Unit prices for equipment, vehicles,
materials and supplies are based on late 1976 prices prevailing in Vientiane.
There would be no taxes or duties on items imported for the Droject. A
physical contingency factor of 15% was applied to the irrigation component
for civil works, to the rice intensification component for equipment; and to
the pig multiplication component for civil works. Costs due to expected
price increases over the implementation period amount to about 21% of total
project costs, assuming the following annual inflation rates:



- 14 -
Annual Inflation Rate %
1977-79         1980-83
Civil Works                        9                8
Equipment and Services             7.5              7
The local currency content of project costs is low (less than 30%) and
mainly relates to labor. Official salary levels and wages are also con-
trolled. In addition all local expenditures under the project would be
made through the official marketing system where prices are fixed and
stable. Accordingly the above international inflation rates are con-
sidered appropriate.
3.21      Project costs include operation and maintenance (excluding labor
which will be provided free) of irrigation structures during construction,
project buildings and equipment, as well as incremental working capital for
pig multiplication units and one year's supply of pig feed for livestock
operators and one year's requirements of an agronomic package under the rice
intensification component. Details of the project costs are presented in
Annex 4 and are summarized below:
Estimated Project Costs.
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total  exchange
----- (K million) -----   ------- USS  000  …-----         %
Irrigation               387.8    734.2  1,122.0  1,939.1  3,671.1  5,610.2    65
Rice intensification    25.8        89.0    114.8    129.0    445.0    574.0    78
Pig multiplication        47.0    192.6    239.6    234.9    962.9  1,197.8    80
Technical assistance         -    278.0    278.0           -  1,390.0  1,390.0   100
Base cost estimates    460.6  1,293.8  1,754.4  2,303.0  6,469.0  8,772.0    74
Physical contingencies  56.6        70.4    127.0    282.8    352.1    634.9    56
Expected price
increases             172.4    321.0    493.4    861.7  1,605.3  2,467.0    65
Total project cost       689.5  1,685.3  2,374.8  3,447.5  8,426.4 11,873.9    71
Financing
3.22      Total project costs are estimated at US$11.87 million with a foreign
exchange cost of US$8.4 million (para. 3.21). The proposed IDA credit of
US$8.2 million would finance 69% of total project costs. About 82% of the
credit or US$6.7 million would be for foreign exchange requirements and about
18% or US$1.5 million would be for local currency requirements.  UNDP would
finance US$1.7 million of foreign exchange costs for techrical assistance and
associated equipment. The proposed financing arrangements are summarized below:



- 15 -
Financing Plan
Government        UNDP          IDA             Total
US$'00      %    US$'000  %   US$'000    %   US$'000    %
Irrigation                 1,240   62.8      -      -    4,370   53.3   5,610   47.2
Rice intensification          29    1.5      -             545    6.6      574    4.8
Pig multiplication           113    5.7      -      -    1,085   13.2   1,198   10.1
Technical assistance          -     -    1,390   82.0       -      -     1,390   11.7
Physical contingencies       130    6.6      -      -      505    6.2       635    5.3
Estimated price increases  462   23.4    310   18.0  1,695   20.7   2,467   20.8
Total project cost         1,974  100.0  1,700  100.0  8,200  100.0  11,874  100.0
3.23      The pig multiplication operations would be part of the departmental
activities of the Directorate of Livestock. Investment funds including incre-
mental working capital requirements in the first year of operation would be
transferred to the project's pig multiplication component as a grant.
Government would also provide a short-term loan at 6% interest to cover the
purchase of pig feed requirements of pig multiplication units in the second
year of operation. In subsequent years, the net income of the units would
be sufficient to finance costs of pig feed (Annex 3, Tables 2, 3 and 4).
Procurement
3.24      General.  Wherever international competitive bidding is required
under the project, bids would be advertised in Bangkok or some other center
where international suppliers are adequately represented.
3.25      Equipment, vehicles and construction materials, costing about
US$5.7 million, would be procured after international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA Guidelines. Irrigation and drainage works in the irrigation
component, and minor irrigation works and electrification in the rice intensi-
fication component would be carried out on force account. In the pig multipli-
cation component, the construction of pig buildings and associated works would
be executed under contracts awarded after local competitive bidding provided,
however, that where local contracting capacity is inadequate such works may be
carried out through force account. Total expenditures on force account including
materials would be about US$4.5 million. Bids for fertilizers, insecticides,
pigs and feeds costing about US$1.1 million would command interest from suppliers
represented in neighboring countries only and would be procured by soliciting at
least three bids in these countries. Existing practices are appropriate for
procurement in neighboring countries of off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$10,000 each because the advantages of international competitive bidding would
be outweighed by the administrative costs involved. The total cost of such items
which would be for start up purposes would not exceed US$200,000. IDA staff



- 16 -
have reviewed local procedures and they are acceptable (Annex 11). With
respect to all contracts for civil works, materials and vehicles costing more
than the equivalent of US$50,000, the borrower would provide to IDA its bid
evaluation, report and recommendations for award, accompanied by the recommenda-
tions for award of the appropriate specialists recruited under arrangements
with UNDP (para. 4.14). Detailed lists of requirements of equipment, vehicles,
and materials are given in Annexes 1, 2 and 3.
3.26      Technical assistance and associated support equipment are estimated to
cost US$1.7 million. Financing for technical assistance costs would be provided
by UNDP.
Disbursements
3.27      Disbursements would be made at the rate of:
(a)  100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment,
vehicles, construction materials, fertilizers, insecticides, feed
and pigs or 75% of local expenditures for the above imported items
procured locally (US$5.9 million).
(b) 36% of construction costs including operating costs and expenditures
for local staff, of irrigation and drainage works, rice intensifica-
tion works, and pig buildings and associated works (US$1.5 million).
In addition, US$0.8 million would be unallocated.
3.28      Applications for disbursements for equipment, vehicles, construction
materials, fertilizers, insecticides, feed, pigs and for works carried out
by contractors would be supported by normal documentation. Applications for
force account work (including operating costs) would be supported by certifi-
cates of expenditure certified by the Project Director and supporting documen-
tation would be retained by the Borrower and held available for inspection by
IDA supervision missions. An estimated schedule of disbursements and a proposed
allocation of proceeds of the Credit are presented in Annex 5. It is expected
that disbursements would be completed by the end of calendar year 1982.
3.29      In order to relieve the shortage of foreign exchange and ensure the
efficient and timely start-up of project activities, immediately after credit
effectiveness, an initial disbursement of US$50,000 would be made into a
special disbursement account that Government would establish in the National
Bank of Laos. From this account, Government would finance the foreign exchange
costs of small items of equipment and supplies to facilitate early start-up and
preparation by the implementing agencies (Annex 5). At the request of the
borrower, IDA would replenish the account following receipt of satistactory
evidence that expenditures financed from each preceding replenishment were
eligible for financing; total disbursements from the credit to the special
disbursement account would not exceed US$100,000 equivalent. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that, should any disbursement out of the special



- 17 -
disbursement account would not exceed US$100,000 equivalent. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that, should any disbursement out of the special
account fail to meet the criteria of eligibility for IDA reimbursement, Govern-
ment would deposit the corresponding amount into the special account. A con-
dition of credit effectiveness would be that the special account had been estab-
lished. Items eligible for financing from the special account were agreed
during negotiations and are in Annex 5.
3.30      To allow construction to proceed on four or five schemes during the
1977/78 construction season (October 1977 to May 1978), the Government would
use existing stock of equipment and materials to construct these schemes and
the Association would finance replacement stocks procured after the signing
of the Credit Agreement provided: (i) the scheme designs and specifications
and scheme feasibility were approved by IDA; (ii) expenditure did not exceed
US$80,000 and was incurred after October 1, 1977; and (iii) the finance was
used to procure replacement of the stocks used in the project in accordance
with IDA procurement guidelines.
Accounts and Audits
3.31      Each implementing agency is subject to normal Government control
and auditing procedures. Project accounts would be audited by the State
Auditors and supervision missions would work closely with the authorities to
improve the quality of audits, if necessary. IDA has furnished the Government
with auditing guidelines, proforma accounts and reporting requirements.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) each of the implementing agencies would maintain a separate account
for the project component for which it is responsible;
(b) audited project accounts would be sent to the Association within
four months of the close of each financial year.
In addition, the ten pig multiplication units would keep separate accounts
and operate as individual cost centers.
Environmental Impact
3.32      The project area is confined almost entirely to existing rice
lands. Schistosomiasis is not a problem in the area. The improved water
management which would be achieved by the project would reduce erosion, silta-
tion and flooding. Intensification of agriculture in the lowlands would
hopefully lead in due course to a reduction in shifting cultivation in the
uplands which is widely practiced and detrimental to soil and water resources.
The ten pig multiplication units would occupy little more than one ha each,
separated from one another and would not be sited close to residential-property.
Waste products would be entirely disposed of for fertilizer and fish farming
purposes.



- 18 -
4.  ORrG:- IZATION &ND MANAGEMENT
General
4.01      The project would be implemented by existing Government agencies
within the "Iinistry of Agriculture.  ?he irrigation and rice intensification
components would be the responsibility of the Directorates of Irrigation and
Agriculture respectively, while the Directorate of Livestock would be
responsible for the pig multiplication component. The pig breeding and multi-
plication activities would be carried out by an operating unit within the
latter Directorate.  The Directorate of External Trade within the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce would have responsibility for procurement of goods from
foreign suppliers. Delivery and recovery of credit would be the responsibility
of the Credit Department of the National Bank.
4.02      The ahove three Directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture would
imilement the project components either with their own staff or where appro-
priate, through the Provincial Services for Irrigation, Agriculture and
Livestock in VTientiane Province. The Provincial Services would implement
project works directly affecting small farmers such as construction of irri-
gation facilities, their operation and maintenance (Irrigation Service),
operation of the agronomic package and extension to paddy farmers (Agriculture
Service) and pig fatteners (Livestock Service).  The Irrigation Service would
be responsible for determining areas of good water management for use of the
agronomic package.  Where coordination of the activities of the Directorates
of Irrigation and Agriculture and their Provincial Services is necessary to
ensure that the works complement each other, it would be provided by the
Directorate General of Agriculture.
4.03      Following appraisal the above three Directorates of the Ministry of
agriculture each aDpointed a Project Director satisfactory to IDA who would be
responsible for direction of the appropriate project component (paras. 4.01,
4.05, 4.09, 4.10). At negotiations assurances were obtained that Government
would maintain personnel satisfactory to IDA in these positions.
Agency Responsibilities
4.04      Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Irrigation.  The Ministry is
organized into a Directorate General and seven Directorates: agriculture;
livestock; forestry; irrigation; meteorology and hydrology; planning, statistics
and finance; and personnel. Overall project responsibility would be vested in
the Director General of Agriculture who would delegate authority for implemen-
tation to the Pirectorites of Irrigation, Agriculture and Livestock.  The
Director General's staff would report regularly to the Director General on
proiect progress.
4.05      Directorate of Irrigation.  A senior officer of the Directorate
qualified in civil engineering woul(i serve as Project Director for the
irrigation component and would be responsible for assignment of personnel,
arrangements for employment of consultants, preparation of tender documents,



- 19 -
evaluation of bids, preparation of budget requests, provision of funds for
project activities, approval of annual work programs and evaluation of
progress.
4.06      Project works would be executed through the employment at provin-
cial level of three survey teams, three design teams and five construction
teams. All plans for proposed irrigation and drainage schemes would be sub-
mitted for review and approval to the Directorate of Irrigation and IDA on the
basis of agreed engineering, agronomic and economic standards (para. 3.12).
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. Field construction
would be carried out by construction teams on force account. Wherever possible
farm families would provide labor in the construction teams.  Three experienced
provincial engineers each heading a design team would also supervise survey and
construction work. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that qualified
engineers would be appointed to these positions.
4.07      Operation and Maintenance (O&M).  This would be the responsibility
of the Provincial Irrigation Service and would consist of operation and repair
of headworks and pumping stations, embankments and water control structures,
desilting of canals and drains, weed cutting, extension work with farmers
regarding scheduling of water supply and farm operations and system improvement.
In line with recent experience current O&M costs on gravity schemes (85% of the
project area) have been estimated at US$10/ha on the basis that farmers partici-
pating in the schemes would provide labor free of charge. In addition, the
annual cost of fuel and maintenance of pumps and diesel engines has been esti-
mated at US$110/ha, assuming 50% cropping intensity in the dry season. However,
the Government expects to complete a program of rural electrification in
the project area by 1980 in which case electric motors would be installed in
the pump schemes. The annual cost of power and maintenance would then be
about US$40/ha.
4.08      O&M field staff in Vientiane Province are now adequate in number
(Annex 1, Table 17). A primary responsibility of the irrigation advisor to the
staff of the Vientiane Provincial Irrigation Service would be to set up training
programs in 0OM. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government
would ensure that all the irrigation, road and drainage systems constructed under
the project would be operated and maintained with sound engineering standards.
4.09      Directorate of Agriculture.  A senior officer of the Directorate
experienced in rice production would be appointed Project Director for the
rice intensification component and would have administrative responsibilities
similar to those outlined in para. 4.05. He would be assisted in these duties
by the Directors of Salakham and Hat Dok Keo Research Stations who would be
responsible for the day-to-day activities of these stations.
4.10      Directorate of Livestock.  The Director of Livestock and his two
deputies would direct operations for the pig component. They would co-
ordinate the activities of the UNDP-assisted pig breeding project (para. 3.18)
and the pig multiplication component. The Directorate would be assisted by
two project managers responsible for the day-to-day work of each of these
operations and by a staff member experienced in maintaining accounts and



- 20 -
records. The Directorate would also have the administrative functions out-
lined in para. 4.05 and would be responsible for selection of the sites of
the ten multiplication units and for approval of layout and building designs.
Construction of the units would be carried out by contractors or on force
account. The project manager of the pig multiplication component would
supervise construction, and be responsible for management of all aspects of
pig production through ten assistant managers, one for each unit of 120 sows.
4.11      Provincial Services.  The Provincial Services for Irrigation,
Agriculture and Livestock are administratively responsible to the provincial
government. The staffing of these services is described in Annexes 1, 2 and 3
and is adequate for the proposed program. These services receive technical
supervision and guidance from the corresponding Directorates in the Ministry
of Agriculture. The headquarters of these services are in Vientiane City and
there should be few problems of coordination between the central and provincial
institutions.
4.12      Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Directorate of External Trade.
The Managing Director of the Import Export Corporation which is within the
Directorate of External Trade has responsibility for procurement of goods
from external sources and is experienced in placing purchase orders, arrang-
ing letters of credit and importation. The Managing Director would be
responsible for advertising for bids, bid opening, signing contracts for
purchase, arrangements for payments to suppliers, requests to IDA for with-
drawals from the credit and organization of importation. The Managing
Director would work closely in procurement matters with counterparts in the
Directorates of Irrigation, Agriculture and Livestock through the Directorate
of Planning, Statistics and Finance.
4.13      National Bank cf Las.  The Credit Division within the National
Bank would be responsible for establishing and operating appropriate mechanisms
for credit delivery and recovery in respect of rice seeds, fertilizer and
insecticides (the agronomic package) and pig feed for fattening by small
farmers. The Division would specifically be responsible for operating the
revolving fund for provision of the agronomic package and pig feed. Operation
of credit arrangements is described in Annex 12. Short-term credit would be
provided at an interest rate of 6% p.a. At negotiations assurances were
obtained that Government would make sufficient funds available to the
National Bank of Laos to meet the credit requirements of the project. The
Division would coordinate its activities with those of counterparts in the
Directorates of Agriculture and Livestock and External Trade.
Technical Assistance
4.14      Under arrangements with UNDP, the Directorate of Irrigatior would
employ two expatriate irrigation specialists for a period of four years, one
as design advisor to the irrigation staff of Vientiane Province, the other as
planning advisor to the Director of Irrigation. The former advisor would also
be responsible for drawing up specifications for equipment and for assisting



- 21 -
in bid evaluation. He would also be required to certify that work performed
by force account had been satisfactorily executed. The latter advisor would
assist the Director in detailed review and appraisal of the irrigation schemes
to be implemented under the project and in preparation of a program of irriga-
tion works for other priority provinces. Again, under arrangements with UNDP,
the Director of Agriculture would employ a rice management specialist for
three years to assist in implementation of the intensification program. The
Directorate of Livestock would employ two specialists in (a) pig husbandry and
management for three years; and (b) building design and construction for about
five months. The advisors would also assist in drawing up specifications for
equipment and in bid evaluation. Assurances were obtained that the employment
of the above advisors would be on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association. All advisors would give full attention to training Lao staff,
which activity would be a major responsibility. Wherever possible staff from
other provinces would be assigned to the project for training purposes. In
the pig component, training of staff and farmers would also be provided under
the UNDP pig project and to veterinary technicians under the FAO Technical
Cooperation Program. A condition of disbursement of proceeds of the proposed
credit under each component of the project except for purchase of off-the-
shelf items would be that the full time technical assistance specialists
required for each component of the project had assumed their positions in
the project area.
Annual Work Programs
4.15      Not later than March 1, 1978 covering the period to September 30,
1978, and not later than July 1 for each twelve month period, October 1 -
September 30, Government would present an annual work program for agreement
with IDA, detailing the proposed activities of the implementing agencies for
the coming year, including recruitment and training of required personnel
(Annex 10). The project would be implemented in accordance with this program.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. The date fixed for
presentation of work programs assumes a construction period for irrigation
projects during the dry season (October-April).
4.16      It is expected that IDA review missions would visit frequently to
review progress and assist in planning project implementation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17      Under the project, a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be estab-
lished not later than six months after the date of the proposed credit
agreement to monitor and evaluate the execution of project activities and
the economic effects of completed schemes. The unit would comprise staff
from the Directorate General of Agriculture and the Directorate of Planning
and would include an agriculturalist, an economist and a financial spLcialist
reporting to the Director General. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the unit would be established and that throughout the implementation
period of the project the necessary personnel would be assigned.



- 22 -
5. PRODUCTION, MARKETING ANID PRICES
Production and Technological Specifications
5.01      Rice.  The proposed project would improve traditional production of
glutinous rice, the main farm crop, by introduction of modern agricultural
techniques which would pave the way for further agricultural intensification.
Supplementary irrigation and flood control would increase average yields in
the rainy season by stabilizing production at the level reached in years when
climatic conditions are favorable. On the basis of experimental work carried
out by Salakham Research Station, it is estimated that without any changes
in farming practices, but with good water management, wet season rice yields
would on average increase from 1.2 to 1.7 tons paddy per ha. During the wet
season, on about 30% of the command area, it is assumed that progressive
farmers would also use improved varieties of glutinous rice (Sampathang,
Donang Nouane..), available from the Salakham Research Station, which could
yield 2.5 tons of paddy per ha when fertilizer (80 kg of urea per ha) and
pesticides are applied.
5.02      In addition, from observations made on similar existing small irri-
gation perimeters, it is estimated that farmer response and water supply on
the pumping schemes (Ban Cheng type) and on the major gravity schemes (Houei
Son type) would be sufficient to allow the most active farmers to grow non-
glutinous rice in the dry season on about 50% of the area served by the
pumping schemes and 30% of the gravity scheme areas. In such areas high-
yielding varieties (IR24), released by the Salakham Research Station, with
intensive fertilizing (300 kg/ha of fertilizer, comprising 100 kg urea, 200
kg 16-20-0) and plant protection measures would yield 3.5 tons of paddy per
h a.
5.03      On the basis of present and expected yields, annual paddy
production of the project area would increase as follows:
At present             At full development          Increase
-------------------- tons of paddy ----------------------
9t900                     25,700                  15,800
It is estimated that after completion of the works, three years would be
required to reach full production.
5.04      Existing equipment and draft animals on the farms are considered
sufficient for the limited expansion of cultivation proposed. Introduction
of tractors and motorized equipment is not recommended at this stage.
5.05      Pigs.  It is estimated that each sow would wean about 12 piglets
per annum. Total output expected from the project would be about 14,400
piglets per annum at full development (year 5 onwards) to be sold for fattening



- 23 -
to small livestock operators and state organizations. In addition, the average
annual production of culled animals would be about 60 tons (liveweight). The
technical coefficients used to estimate annual output have already been achieved
on the breeding and fattening farm at Nanockhum and are considered realistic
(Annex 3).
5.06      Animals would be fed mixed feed bought from local state owned feed
mills (one existing of 2,000 tons p.a. capacity, one planned under French
bilateral aid of 20,000 tons) using locally produced maize, rice bran, broken
rice and imported concentrates. Supplies of local feed components would be
adequate (Annex 3). Annual requirements of mixed feed for the project at full
development would be about 5,000 tons. Planned processing capacity (22,000
tons in 1978) to meet the requirements of the proposed project and of ongoing
projects should be sufficient. If installation of new processing capacity is
delayed present facilities could be modified without difficulty to cope
with project requirements.
5.07      The common pig diseases are present but these can be prevented
and controlled by vaccination, hygiene and medication. A technical assist-
ance program for training 30 veterinary technicians in 1977 has been arranged
between Government and FAO (para. 4.14). Veterinary services would be adequate
for project requirements.
Demand and lUarketing Arrangements
5.08      Rice.  It is estimated that the rural population in the Vientiane
Province is more or less self-sufficient but that there is no rice surplus to
feed the urban population of Vientiane City now estimated at 120,000. With an
annual consumption of 180 kg per capita, Vientiane Province's annual rice
requirements are estimated at about 110,000 tons. Production of rice in the
province is estimated at 80,000 tons implying a deficit of about 30,000 tons
for the province.
5.09      The incremental rice production expected from the project (approxi-
mately 9,500 tons per annum at full development) would help meet about 30% of
the deficit in Vientiane Province's requirements, a considerable contribution
to one of the major rice deficit areas in the country. The Directorate of
Food, within the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, has the monopoly for
marketing both locally produced and imported rice. No major difficulties in
rice marketing are expected as transport, processing and storage facilities
in the Vientiane Plain are sufficient.
5.10       Livestock.  In 1973 almost 18,000 pigs and piglets and ten tons of
pork were imported to feed the urban population of Vientiane. Due to a lack
of foreign exchange, imports have now been restricted to about 6,000 piglets
a year; there is a scarcity of meat (of pork in particular) which is reflec-
ted by the higher prices obtained on the unofficial market (para. 5.13). In
addition, there is evidence that productive gilts are killed to meet the
demand for pork.



- 24 -
5.11      Taking into account the consumption pattern and the Vientiane
population growth rate, it is estimated that Vientiane City's requirements hy
1985 would be about 21,000 pigs per annum. The incremental production from the
project would then meet about 70% of annual requirements. Adequate modern
slaughtering facilities already exist.
Product Prices
5.12      Rice.  Reference prices /1 are established by Government before
harvest and each province fixes prices.within its geographic area and within
the range of these reference prices. In Vientiane Province, 1976 paddy
prices paid to farmers ranged from K 22 to K 27 per kg, to reflect transport
costs estimated at K 8/ton/km in this region.   The retail price of glutinous
rice is fixed at K 45/kg./2 As these prices are in line with Bank projected
world market prices in constant dollars (at the official exchange rate), they
have been used for both financial and economic analyses.
5.13      Pigs.  For pig products Government fixed prices at farm and
retail levels are given below:
piglet (15 kg)                    K 4,500
pig (kg liveweight)               K   150
mixed feed (kg)                   K    30
However, on the unofficial market, prices are much higher and, between October
1976 and February 1977, prices of pork ranged between K 1,300 and K 1,600/kg.
With the current price of mixed feed (K 30/kg) and Government fixed prices for
piglets and pigs, pig multiplication and pig fattening operations are not
financially viable. To ensure the financial viability of the various opera-
tions, the Government would initially set the following prices:
piglet (15 kg)                    K 7,200
pig (kg iiveweight)               K   230
mixed feed (kg)                   K    36
These prices would yield a financial rate of return of about 15%. For the
economic analysis, the following prices corresponding to import prices
at the official exchange rate have been used:
piglet (15 kg)                    K 7,200
pig  (kg liveweight)              K   200
/1 Reference prices are floor and ceiling prices fixed by Government.
/2 Prices on the unofficial market for rice were about 50-70% higher than the
fixed price in late 1976.



- 25 -
Farm Incomes
5.14      Rice farm models have been prepared for 1.5 ha farms on gravity
schemes (85% of project area) and pump schemes (15% of project area).  Pro-
jected incomes are sunmarized below for rice farmers with 1.5 ha irrigated
land in respect of income from rice.
Increase
Type of       Cropping Intensity          Farm Rice Net Income            due to
Scheme         Present   Future   Present  Future   Present  Future  project
-- K ('000) ---   ----- $   …------
Gravity (agronomic
package)          100         130      350        830      175      415       137
Gravity (without
package)          100         100      350        490      175      245        40
Pump (agronomic
package)          100         150      350        640      175      320        83
5.15      National average farm net incomes are unknown as data are incomplete.
Net farm incomes in the project are currently estimated at about US$270 per
family (US$45 per capita) of which US$175 per family (or US$30 per capita)
is in net rice income.  Most farmers' incomes are well below the poverty
level estimated at about US$350 per family.  The increment due to the project
in net rice income to farm families (about 5,500 farm families) would range
between US$70-US$240 per annum. Initially within the project period it is
estimated that about 1,600 farmers would use the agronomic package.  Eventually
through post project activities, it is expected that most of the remaining
3,900 farrmers would also receive the agronomic package.
5.16      In addition, as a result of project activities, pig producers
fattening two to three piglets each year should derive a farm net income
from this operation of about US$35-US$50 per annum.
Cost Recovery
5.17      For all irrigation schemes where farmers are ensured a reliable
supply of water, Governnent policy is to recover directly or indirectly
from the beneficiaries without irnpairing their incentive as much as practicable
of capital and O&Mi costs. During negotiations assurances were obtained to
this effect and Government also agreed to review the adequacy of thes-
charges with IDA from time to time.  Capital costs as well as costs of
operation and maintenance of structures and distribution works of the gravity
and pump schemes would be recovered indirectly through the agricultural
production tax, which is assessed on a progressive scale on the wet season
crop and yields an average tax rate of 15% of the taxable product. In
addition those benefiting from pump irrigation would be required to pay
directly for a proportion of the O&M costs of pumps.



- 26 -
5.18      The capital costs of project small irrigation schemes would average
about US$850/ha for new gravity schemes and US$2,000/ha for pumping schemes
while incremental O&I costs would amount at full development to US$10/ha for
gravitv schemes and US$120/ha for diesel pump and US$50 for electric pump
schemes.  Assuming a 10% discount rate and a repayment period of 20 years,
full cost recovery of investment and operation and maintenance costs from
farmers would require incremental annual payments of US$60/ha and US$250/ha
for the period for gravity and diesel pumping schemes respectively.  Incre-
mental annual payments on electric pump schemes would amount to US$170/ha.
The agronomic package would be applied to 1,300 ha in gravity schemes and the
total area on pump schemes (1,200 ha). Average incremental agricultural taxes
would amount to US$65/ha at full project developrment where the agronomic
package was used (US$25/ha for gravity schemes without the agronomic package).
In addition, beneficiaries would be required to pay about US$35/ha (one third
of thé O&Nf costs of pumps and engines) on diesel pump schemes and US$40/ha
(the total cost of 0&M of pumps and motors) on electric pump schemes. Rent
and cost recovery indices would be:
Rent Recovery      Cost Recovery
Type of Scheme                        Index (%)           Index (%)
Gravity with agronomic package            45                100
Gravity without agronomic package        64                  42
Pump scheme diesel                       64                  40
Eump scheme electric                     68                  63
6. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01      The irrigation and drainage works, rice intensification and pig
multiplication programs would benefit about 5,500 paddy farm families and
about 4,500 small livestock farmers whose incomes are among the lowest
in South-East Asia. The incremental rice production resulting from the proj-
ect at full development represents about 30% of the present annual rice
deficit in Vientiane Province.  By 1985, the project would provide about 70%
of the pork recuirements of the city. The project would contribute significantly
towards the G;overnment's objective of self-sufficiency in food production at
provincial level and would nrovide pilot experience in irrigation, rice inten-
sification and pig production for later transfer to other provinces. The
exnected economic rate of return of the overall project is 25% on the basis
of the proposed list of irrigation schemes and the livestock component.
6.02      The irrigation and drainage component would construct new facilities
in 3,900 ha of lowland paddy land and rehabilitate 4,420 ha of facilities.  The
comDonent would provide on-the-job training in Dreparation, appraisal and con-



- 27 -
struction of irrigation works for headquarters and field engineers and for Il
field teams set up for the project. These would be the core personnel for later
projects. The estimated economic rate of return on all irrigation schemes is
29% (Annex 8). The rate of return showed only minor sensitivity to the
estimates of investment costs and to the level of benefits. In this project
it has been conservatively estimated that initially about one third (1600) of
oarticipating farmers would aDply the agronomic package.  Under post project
activities the remaining farmers could be expected to use modern inputs. In
that the irrigation stucture would have already been established substantial
incremental benefits would accrue with relatively minor additional investment.
6.03      A rate of return has not been calculated for the rice intensification
component which, after subtraction of the revolving fund for production inputs,
represents only 12% of project costs. This component is clearly essential. It
wouild reactivate research and development of irmproved cultivation techniques
in Vientiane Province and provide basic experience for the later transfer of
this research, development and extension work to other provinces.
6.04      The pig multiplication component would result in the establishment
of regular supplies of weaned piglets of good breeds, at about 14,400 per
vear to smalt farmers and government organizations. Further benefits would
arise from the organization of programs to ensure adequate local production
of feed supplies. Government control of feed, pig and meat prices at appro-
priate levels would provide an adequate incentive to producers.
6.05      The financial rate of return on the pig multiplication units is
estimated to be 15% (Annex 9). The estimated economic rate of return for the
integrated pig multiplication and fattening operation is 24%.  The rate of
return showed minor sensitivity to the estimates of investment costs and the
level of benefits.
6.06      The irrigYation component would result in foreign exchange savings
of about ITS$1.2 million fron year 8 onwards. The savings in the pig multi-
plication component would be about US$0.3 million from year 5 onwards.
6.07      In proposing this first IDA-financed project, Government and IDA
staff recognize that several technical, organizational and project financing
approaches to be employed in the project are untested. The extent of the
response of farmers to improved water management and supply of agronomic
inputs can only be fully determined during the course of the project (para.
4.17). 1'owever, projected yields from improved rice cultivation practices
have been conservatively estimated and in the project area the demand for
improved water management and fertilizer is well established. Some 48 small
irrigation sehemes out of the total number of 90 which have been identified
have been selected. Project arrangements, furthermore, require careful
appraisal of all survey and design proposals before implementation on
the basis of criteria agreed with IDA. In addition, standard designs and
specifications of each of the five scheme types and a summary of proposals
for each scheme would be subnitted to IDA for approval prior to implementation
(paras. 3.12 and 4.06). The principal organizations for implementation of the
irrigation component, the Directorates of Irrigation and Agriculture and the
Vientiane Province Irrigation Service have recently been reorganized. The



- 28 -
former are short staffed in relation to national needs. However, staffing is
adequate for this project and the proximity of the project area to Vientiane
City will facilitate implementation. Pig multiplication projections are also
conservative. Although technology is well known, the pig multiplication
activity is a larger operation that any directed so far by the Directorate of
Livestock. Proximity of the multiplication units to Vientiane City will again
contribute to timely implementation. In the case of all three components,
irrigation, rice intensification, and pig multiplication, work carried out by
Government preparatory to implementation has been impressive.   Furthermore,
Government has readily appreciated the importance of experienced technical
assistance for each project component. In the post-implementation period
additional funds will be required to cover operation and maintenance expenses.
Assurances were obtained that Government would make adequate budgetary alloca-
tion for this purpose.
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
Implementation
(a)  the project would be implemented in accordance with an annual work
program to be prepared by the implementing agencies. This program
would be presented for agreement with IDA not later than Mdarch 1, 1978,
covering the period to September 30, 1978 and not later than July 1
in each subsequent year (para. 4.15);
(b)  the Government would make sufficient funds available to the National
Bank of Laos to meet the credit requirements of the project
(para. 4.13);
Staff
(c)  the project directors maintained in position for the irrigation,
rice intensification and pig multiplication components would be
senior well qualified officials of their respective Directorates
with appropriate qualifications and experience (para. 4.03);
(d)  at least three experienced Irrigation Engineers would be appointed
to the Vientiane Province Irrigation Service to manage the survey,
design and construction works (para. 4.06);
(e)  a monitoring and evaluation unit would be established not later
than six months after the date of the proposed credit agreement
and the necessary personnel would be assigned to the unit throughout
the implementaion period (para. 4.17);
Irrigation Component
(f)  prior to commencement of construction, the Government would submit
to IDA for approval standard designs and specifications for each of
the five types of schemce and summary data forms for each individual



- 29 -
scheme based on engineering, agronomic and economic criteria agreed
with IDA (paras. 3.12 and 4.06);
(g) Government would operate and maintain all the irrigation road
and drainage systems constructed under the project in accordance
with sound engineering standards (para. 4.08);
(h) for all irrigation projects where farmers are ensured a reliable
supply of water, Government would: (i) recover as much as possible of
the capital and O&M costs directly or indirectly from the bene-
ficiaries without impairing their incentive; and (b) review the
adequacy of these charges with IDA from time to time (para. 5.17);
Pig Multiplication
(i) Government would provide about 10 ha of land in suitable locations
for the 10 pig multiplication units (para. 3.16);
(j) Government would set and maintain the prices of feed, piglets
and pig meat at levels which would enable the multiplication units
to earn a rate of return on their operations acceptable to IDA and
provide an incentive to producers to continue to purchase and fatten
piglets (paras. 3.17 and 5.13);
(k) Government would implement programs to ensure production of maize
and rice bran, sufficient to meet the requirements of the project
(para. 3.17);
Accounts
(1) each of the implementing agencies would maintain a separate account
for the project component for which it is responsible; and the
project accounts, audited by the State Auditors, would be sent to
the Association within four months of the close of each financial
year (para. 3.31).
Conditions of Effectiveness and Disbursement
7.02      A condition of effectiveness would be that the special account had
been opened (para. 3.29).
7.03      A condition of disbursement of proceeds of the proposed credit
under each component of the project except for purchase of off-the-shelf
items would be that the full-time technical assistance specialists required
for each component of the project had assumed their positions in the project
area (para. 4.14).



- 30 -
Condition of Board Presentation
7.04      A condition of Board presentation would be that the project agree-
ments between Government and UNDP to finance technical assistance under the
project had been signed.
7.05      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$8.2 million on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be the Lao
Peoples Democratie Republic.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Small Irrigation and Drainage Works
Project Area
1.        The project area lies largely in that area of alluvial land, within
the Vientiane Plain, which is bisected by the Nam Ngum River as it flows in a
southerly direction. North of the Vientiane Plain, potential schemes also
exist in the valley bottoms between the ranges of hills. The project area
does not include the area bounded in the north, by the Nam Ngum as it flows
eastwards into the Mekong and in the south, by the Mekong. The project area
is therefore outside the area of the lower Vientiane Plain subject to flooding
by the Mekong. The total area of paddy land on lowland hydromorphic soils in
the province is about 87,000 ha. Within the Vientiane Plain, there are exten-
sive areas of slightly higher land. On these lands, which are still forested,
rainfed paddy is grown under the "rai" system - a form of shifting cultivation,
involving the clearance of forests. On the east and west fringes of the plain,
where the land is steeper, this practice of "rai" is accelerating soil erosion
and is causing heavy silt and sand loads in the streams entering the Nam Ngum.
Project Works
2.        The irrigation component would provide irrigation and drainage
services to some 8,320 ha of permanent paddy land in up to 48 individual
schemes of five main types. New schemes would consist of both gravity and
pump irrigation systems over a total area of some 3,900 ha. Major rehabili-
tation of existing schemes would be carried out over an area of some 4,420 ha.
The project works would consist of:
(a) construction and operation and maintenance of new irrigation,
drainage and access facilities in:
(i) nine paddy areas comprising about 2,700 ha; these are gravity
schemes (Houei Son type) to irrigate an average of 300 ha per
scheme;
(ii) four paddy areas comprising about 1,200 ha; these are pump
irrigation schemes (Ban Cheng type) supplied by the Nam Ngum
River to irrigate an average of 300 ha per scheme.
(b) major rehabilitation and upgrading and operation and maintenance
of irrigation, drainage and access facilities on the following
existing irrigation systems;



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(i) 16 paddy areas comprising about 1,920 ha where headworks
and distribution systems have been inadequately maintained;
these are gravity schemes (Ban Ylai type) to irrigate an
average of 120 ha per scheme;
(ii) 16 temporary earth and brushwood dams comprising about 1,600 ha
which require new irrigation facilities and improvement and
realignment of distribution systems; these are gravity schemes
(Ban Nakeo type) to service an average scheme area of 100 ha.
(iii) three drainage control systems comprising about 900 ha re-
quiring realignment and strengthening of drainage channels,
new flood control gates and flood protection embankments;
these schemes (Pak Pung type) would be located in areas of
300 ha located near the Mekong and the lower Nam Ngum rivers.
Construction of New Schemes and Rehabilitation of Existing Schemes.
3.        The location of the irrigation schemes is shown on M¶ap 12883.  In
Tables 1-5 the main structures which would be provided under the project are
listed. Costs of material, labor and construction are given in Tables 6-8.
The density of on-farm facilities is given in Chart 17321. Equipment lists
are in Tables 9-13. Cost estimates are given in Table 14. Due to the impos-
sibility at this stage of precise allocation of machinery costs, and the mix
of new and rehabilitated schemes, per hectare costs of individual schemes can
only be estimated approximately. Excluding the cost of technical assistance
and price contingencies, the average cost per hectare of new and rehabilitated
schemes is about US$950 including technical assistance and contingencies.
4.        The principal features of the irrigation schemes are given below:
(a) Houei Son, (type A) /1 is an overflow weir across a channel of up
to 10 m width and 1 m depth and the area served is about 300 ha.
Provision is made for the periodical release of accumulated
silt and sand held up by the weir. Siting of the structure
needs particular care to avoid excessive excavation for the
distribution system. Some 180 cu m of reinforced concrete is
needed in the headworks and 50 cu m is needed in the small struc-
tures in the distribution system.  Lining of the canals is not
considered necessary. The irrigation supply is taken off from
the flanks of the structure through controlled offtakes. The
distribution system consists of a main canal and secondaries,
taking off at approximately 200 m intervals. Field distribution
via small pipe offtakes, is by field ditches and plot to plot.
Field drainage would be through the borrow pits formed by the
construction of the secondaries. A schematic layout for a
300 ha scheme is shown in Chart 17321. The approximate cost per
hectare of this scheme would be about US$850.
(b) Ban Cheng, (type B) is a pumped irrigation supply for some 300 ha,
taken off from the Nam Ngum whose water level has a seasonal
/1 Reference to type relates to list of schemes in Annex 1, Table 18.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
variation of about 10 m. The supply is fed into a stilling basin
and distribution system. Pump units delivering 750 liters/second
will either be pontoon-mounted or the screw lifting type with
bank-mounted engines. About 170 cu m of reinforced concrete is
needed for the stilling basin and structures in the distribution
system. Lining is again not considered necessary in the prevailing
soil conditions. Distribution and drainage will be as in type A.
The approximate cost per hectare of this scheme would be about
US$2,000.
(c) Ban Nakeo, (type C) is a small overflow weir in channels of average
width 15 m and maximum stream depth, 6 m. The area served by this
type of scheme is about 100 ha. A village-built distribution system
leads off both banks, upstream of the weir. The distribution and
drainage system will need to be improved and changes are likely
in its alignment. Some 120 cu m of reinforced concrete is needed
for the headworks. These schemes are located on the lower part of
the plain and earthworks amounting to some 2,000 cu m are required
for a protective embankment. This structure will usually replace a
village-built earth and brushwood dam. The approximate cost per
hectare of this scheme would be about US$800.
(d) Ban Ylai, (type D) is an existing scheme of averge size 120 ha
which now requires repairs to the headworks and main canal with
considerable improvement in the distribution and drainage system.
This work is necessary to bring this type up to the irrigation
standard planned for types A and B. The approximate cost per
hectare of this scheme would be about US$650.
(e) Pak Pung, (type E) is a large drainage control gate for use in areas
bordering the Mekong and the lower reaches of the Nam Ngum. The
average size of the scheme is 300 ha. The scheme is similar to the
existing drainage control system at Mak Nao with the addition of a
control on the upstream water level. Some 250 cu m of reinforced
concrete is needed. Realignment and strengthening of drainage
channels and construction of earthworks at the headworks will
require a total of 50,000 cu m of earthworks. A flood protection
embankment 400 m in length, requiring 10,000 cu m of earthworks
will be necessary. The approximate cost per hectare of this scheme
would be about US$550.
5.        On all schemes O&M roads would be constructed to give access to
headworks and along canal banks. Roads along main canals would be 5 m wide
with a surfacing 0.2 m deep. Along lesser waterways road standards would be
appropriately reduced.
6.        The proposed level of on-farm distribution and drainage is fairly
similar to that being implemented in other IDA-assisted projects and would be
a substantial improvement on the present unsatisfactory systems. Rice has
been grown in the project area for many years and little land leveling or
other on-farm works would be required.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
7.         The source of water for the gravity schemes would be the main tri-
butaries of the Nam Ngum river which rise in the hills framing Vientiane
Province and the Vientiane Plain.  The pump irrigation schemes would be
supplied from the Nam Ngum river itself.  Under the project therefore, new
irrigation systens would be developed and there would also be improved
utilization of water in the existing systems.
8.        Continuous and reliable stream flow records are not available at
the diversion points of the gravity schemes. However on the basis of past
experience the water supply is known to be sufficient to provide the necessary
supplementary irrigation in the wet season and to allow about 30% cropping of
the gravity schemes area in the dry season. Water supply is likely to be
sufficient to supply a larger area than this but it has been assumed that
farmer response would limit the area of double cropping, at least in the
early years of the project to 30% of the gravity schemes area. Under the
project, survey teams would carefully determine the probable water supply for
all the schemes prior to a decision on construction. As formulated, the
project ains to develop about 48 small irrigation sche-mes which have been
selected (Table 18).  In fact, about 90 possible schemes have been identified
in Vientiane Province so there is ample scope for selection of gravity
schemes with the most reliable water supply. The pump schemes are located
near the banks of the Nam Ngum river and water supply would be ample for both
wet and dry seasons.  It has been assumed however that 50% of the area of the
pump schemes would be cropped in the dry season.
Water Demand
9.        Water requirements for rice were based on the following cropping
calendar:
Dates
Operation            Wet season                     Dry season
Land preparation  June to early July                Early November to late
& nursery                                           December
Transplanting      Early July to late August        Early December to early
February
Harvesting         Late October to late December  Mid March to late J4ay
Water requirements for land preparation, nursery flooding and cultivation are
shown in Table 15. Climatological records are given in Table 16.
Water Quality
10.       Tests of water quality would also be carried out by the survey teams
prior to selection of schemes for construction. However paddy has been widely
grown in the area over a period of many years. No adverse effects have been
noted on the soils or crops irrigated with these waters.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Organization and Management
11.       Overall responsibility for planning and supervision of implementation
of irrigation and drainage works rests with the Directorate of Irrigation in
the Ministry of Agriculture. The complement of staff in the Directorate at
October 1976 is given below:
Engineers       Technicians       Accountant
7               23                 1
Also involved in the sphere of irrigation is the Directorate of Meteorology
and Hydrology in the Ministry of Agriculture. This office holds considerable
information, mainly collected while the predecessor of the Directorate, the
Department of Hydrology in Public Works, was in association with the Mekong
Committee. Data collection is continuing, but the Department has not yet
worked on gauging of flows from small catchments on which information is
required to assess possibilities of off-season cropping.
12.       The national engineering staff is insufficient for development
to be extended to the whole country of 13 provinces, and the Ministry of
Agriculture has decided to concentrate staff, technical assistance and devel-
opment in Vientiane Province. Under arrangements between Government and UNDP
the Directorate of Irrigation would employ two expatriate irrigation special-
ists for a period of four years, one as design advisor to the irrigation
staff of the Provincial Irrigation Service, the other as planning advisor
to the Director of Irrigation. Terms of reference for these advisors are
in Appendix A to this annex. Training would be a major component of the
advisors' duties.
13.       The organization of the Irrigation Service of Vientiane Province
is given in Chart 17322 and staff composition in Table 17. The service is
organized in five divisions, for administration and accounting; survey;
design and drafting; construction and organization and maintenance; and
equipment, supplies and workshop. Controlling each provincial office is an
administrator - a nontechnical official. The engineer strength includes both
civil and agricultural engineers. The latter do not have much depth of
experience in design of hydraulic structures, and their work will require
some guidance and supervision. The technicians are, in the main, familiar
with drawing office work and capable of carrying out the topographical
surveys required for irrigation planning. There should be no difficulty in
finding construction foremen and artisans. Unskilled labor would be obtained
in the farming communities which will benefit from the proposed works.
14.       The office facilities of the Vientiane Province Irrigation Department
are currently inadequate. Government has agreed however to provide satisfac-
tory facilities, which have already been located, in Vientiane City. Furni-
ture for these new offices is under construction.
15.       The Directorate has some equipment left over from the previous
regime. These items are mostly in poor condition, worn out and neglected.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Reliable transport and equipment are not available. Much equipment lacks vital
spares which can only be obtained from the USA. Most of the AID equipment
left behind is now under the control of the Public Works Department
who are using it for their large road and bridge rehabilitation program.
16.       Implementation Considerations.
(a) Background. The drainage and irrigation schemes to be constructed
and rehabilitated in this project are small, varied in type and
scattered. They have generally not been studied in detail. Conse-
quently, detailed surveys, design and final selection have to be
carried out during the project as part of preconstruction activities.
The physical extent of the potential small irrigation areas is
however recorded on 1:100,000 maps. Maps of 1:10,000 scale are
available and will be acquired for project use. While there is a
system of major roads throughout the province, parts of access
roads to individual paddy areas have fallen into disrepair, with
frequent breaks in the road formation caused by collapsed culverts
and bridges. These roads require rehabilitation. Construction of
irrigation works is generally only possible in the dry season of
six months.
(b) Size of Program. The number of schemes to be constructed or
improved was established, taking into account the implementation
ability of the provincial irrigation service and the provision of
technical assistance during a four-year period. Approximately 55%
of the earthworks would be constructed mechanically. A higher
proportion of manual work is not considered feasible in relation to
construction periods and availability of labor.
(c) Selection of Schemes. A total of over 90 possible schemes covering
20,000 ha has been identified. These proposed schemes are cate-
gorized and listed (para. 4). A list of 48 probable schemes for
completion in about five years is shown in Table 18. Irrigation
facilities would only be established or rehabilitated in areas
where farmers agree to form an association or cooperative for
purposes of production.
(d) Implementation Procedure. Schemes would be surveyed, planned
and implemented by the provincial irrigation service. Scheme plans
would be submitted to the Directorate of Irrigation for examination
of the viability of a proposed scheme on technical, agronomic and
economic criteria agreed with IDA at negotiations. Prior to commence-
ment of construction, the following would be submitted to IDA for
approval: (i) standard designs and specifications for each of the
five types of schemes and (ii) sumrmary data sheets (Annex 1,
Appendix B) for each individual scheme. The Directorate would,
in its examination, carry out the following:
(i) a technical review which would include an examination of
surveys, designs, bills of quantities, etc.;



ANNEX 1
Page 7
(ii)  an agronomic review to determine suitability of the area
for paddy and probable yields under irrigation. For this,
assistance would be required from the Directorate of
Agriculture;
(iii) an economic review which would establish the economic
viability of a scheme through a comparison of the discounted
project benefits with the discounted project costs. The
minimum acceptable economic rate of return would be 12%.
17.       Organization and Staffing for Implementation
(a)  The stages in the preparation and execution of a subproject would
be:
(i)  initial review by the Provincial Irrigation Service of
identified schemes, including preliminary assessment of
reliable water availability for a minimum of 100% wet
season paddy cropping and 30% dry season paddy cropping
(gravity schemes). For pumping schemes water avail-
ability should be adequate for 50% dry season cropping.
Assessment by the Directorate of Agriculture of the
suitability of scheme area soils for irrigated paddy
production;
(ii)  preparation of scheme proposals, including topographical
survey with contours at 25 cm intervals, preliminary lay-
outs and estimates of potential cropping intensity, and
cost estimates and economic analyses by the Provincial
Irrigation Service; and assessments of soil fertility,
feasible cropping calendars, and present and potential
yields by the Directorate of Agriculture;
(iii) review of scheme proposals following field visits by an
Evaluation Team of the Directorate of Irrigation, includ-
ing the Planning Advisor.
(iv)  where a scheme proposal is accepted, preparation of
detailed designs by the Provincial Irrigation Service
design team, assisted by the Design Advisor;
(v)  approval of scheme by the Director of Irrigation, assisted
by the Planning Advisor; and
(vi)  construction by teams each headed by a construction foreman
under the supervision of an engineer.
(b) Staff salaries and running costs and equipment requirements for the
above functions are shown in Tables 8-11.
18.       Proposed Program.  Table 18 lists all the schemes, with their con-
struction period requirement, which could be completed by the teams.  Also
given in Table 18 are the periods needed for the detailed topographic surveys



ANNEX 1
Page 8
of the paddy areas and their immediate surroundings. Priority of construc-
tion would be given to the repair of existing structures and distribution
canals as arranged in the schedule of construction of schemes (Table 19).
Imported materials such as cement and steel should be ordered as soon as
possible, in readiness for a start on major construction in October 1978.
Pumping equipment cannot be ordered until the Design Advisor has decided on a
suitable standard pumping unit. Chart 17320 details the program of activities.
19.       Operation and Maintenance.  The Provincial Irrigation Service would
be responsible for and would organize operation and maintenance. Government
would finance the costs of materials and machine work required for operation
and maintenance which would consist of operation and repair of headworks and
pumping stations, embankments and water control structures, desilting of
canals and drains, weed cutting, extension work with farmers regarding sched-
uling of water supply and farm operations and system improvement. Farmers
benefiting from irrigation services would provide labor for operation
and maintenance free of charge. The cost of materials and machine work for
operation and maintenance in gravity and pump schemes is estimated to be
US$10 per ha. The annual cost of operating pump schemes would approach an
additional US$110 per ha involving fuel and maintenance of pumps and engines,
assuming 50% cropping intensity in the dry season./l  However, the Government
expects to complete a program of rural electrification in the project area by
1980 in which case electric motors would be installed in the pump schemes.
The annual cost of power and maintenance would then be about US$40/ha.
Recovery of investment and O&M costs is dealt with in Annex 7.
Agricultural Development
20.       Present Agricultural Production
(a) The main rice production is of glutinous rice which is the staple
diet in the country. Long stemmed traditional varieties are used
because the depth of flooding in the rainy season precludes the
cultivation of short stemmed, high yielding varieties. The paddy
fields in the flood plains are leveled and bunded.  Land preparation
is done in June and July with buffaloes pulling traditional ploughs
and harrows. Some cattle manure is applied on nurseries. Harvesting
starts around mid-October for early maturing varieties and is com-
pleted by end of November.
(b) Average paddy yield is estimated to be 1.2 ton/ha. When rainfall
and accompanying water depths are suitable yields of up to 2 tons/ha
have been obtained without fertilizer. Average yield in good
years is estimated to be 1.7 ton/ha. The difference between maximum
and average unit yields shows the importance of the water supply. A
rainfall deficit in June or July (which was the case in 1976) can
check seedling growth or delay transplanting. Early floods can wipe
out young plants by drowning.
/1 This cost is based on 100% cropping intensity in the wet season and 50%
cropping intensity in the dry season.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
21.       Proposed Development
(a)  The elimination of rainfall deficits and the prevention of early
floods would remove the risks to the main crop.  Without any tech-
nical changes in present agricultural practices, wet season yields
similar to the average in good climatic years, (1.7 tons/ha of paddy)
would be obtained.
(b) The removal of the risk of total crop failure would also encourage
farmers to improve their cultivation techniques by using better
varieties, fertilizers and pesticides.
(c) Of the 8,320 ha which would be developed by the project, about
7,120 ha would be under gravity schemes (Houei Son type) and
1,200 ha under pumping schemes (Ban Cheng type). From the results
observed on simnilar irrigation perimeters, it has been estimated
that during the wet season:
(i) 70% of the total area would continue to be cultivated by tra-
ditional methods, i.e. with no inputs;
(ii) 30% of the total area (2,500 ha) would-be cultivated by modern
techniques through the use of inputs including:
- improved seeds (glutinous variety), 30 kg/ha
- fertilizer, 80 kg of urea/ha
- pesticides, one treatment (Sevin)
and during the dry season
(i) about 30% of the area under gravity schemes and 50% of the area
under pumping schemes would be cultivated by the most active
and efficient farmers who would use modern techniques of:
- high yielding varieties (nonglutinous, as glutinous varie-
ties are photosensitive and cannot be used at that time of
the year): 30 kg/ha
- fertilizers: 100 kg urea plus 200 kg 16-20-0 per ha
(equivalent to 77 kg N - 40 kg P)
- pesticides; two treatments (Sevin)
(ii) All cultivation would be done with buffaloes which are suffi-
cient to cultivate the limited acreage proposed.
The above levels of inputs are based on research work carried out
previously by Salakham Research Station.
(d) With the above assumptions, yields and paddy production at full
development would be as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Yield of paddy
(ton/ha)
1       2
Wet season:
No agronomic package                 1.2    1.7
With agronomic package                -      2.5
Dry season:                             -      3.5
1  - Without project.
2  -  With project.
These yield levels are estimated on the assumption that the most progressive
farmers will take up the agronomic package and that there is an unsatisfied
demand for fertilizers. Area developed and production under the project are
in Tables 20 and 21.
Marketing and Prices
22.       Rice Consumption and Demand
From a survey carried out in 1969, rice consumption per capita in
the country is estimated at 180 kg p.a. As national production is about
540,000 tons, part of the rice requirement has to be met by imports which
ranged from 65,000 to 115,000 tons per year during the 1969-73 period (page
12). An estimated 100,000 tons of rice were imported in 1976, of which about
half was commodity aid. Rice imports in 1977 are estimated at the same level
as in 1976 with appropriately half again in commodity aid. Due to the severe
drought in the 1977 crop season, import requirements in 1978 are projected at
200,000 tons.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
23.       Marketing
(a) While there is a rice surplus in the South (Champassak, in parti-
cular), there is a shortage in the North. The isolation of the
various provinces and high transportation costs make it impossible
to supply the North out of the surpluses from the South. The
Government's target for self-sufficiency in all provinces is
realistic.
(b)  The Directorate of Food, within the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce, has the monopoly for marketing both locally produced and
imported rice; however, this recently established Directorate has
no experience in the marketing of local paddy. Its main activities
are restricted so far to the distribution of imported rice. For
the next marketing operation, the Directorate has planned to
appoint one government agent per subdistrict who would be respon-
sible for buying the surplus paddy from the farmers living in this
area. Each subdistrict already has a shed where paddy can be
stored for a few days before processing in the large rice mills.
Rice would finally be kept in large government stores built in the
districts or near Vientiane. There is no census of rice mills
(village mills and some large ones) but it is estimated that in the
Vientiane Plain the existing mills are working well below their
capacity (at 1/3. to 1/2 of their capacity). The list of stores
with their location and capacity is also unknown, but it is under-
stood that there is no shortage of storage capacity in the
Vientiane Plain.
24.       Prices
(a) Reference prices are established by Government before the harvest
and each province fixes the prices within its geographic area. In
the Vientiane Province, 1976 paddy prices paid to farmers ranged from
K 22 to K 27 per kg to reflect the transport costs estimated at K
8/ton/km in this region.
(b) Milling costs are also fixed by the provincial authorities; these
are equivalent to the value of rice bran or about K 1.4 to K 1.5/kg
of paddy. No milling cost is charged to the farmer who does not
take away the bran.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
(c) Retail price of rice is fixed at K 45/kg; this official price is
applied only in government shops. On the unofficial market, current
prices Der kg (October 1976) are:
glutinous rice                            K 50 to 60
ordinary rice    1st quality              K 180
2nd quality            K 150
rice bran                                 K 40
At present, glutinous rice is imported from Thailand at US$180/ton (equivalent
to K 36/kg at the official rate) c.i.f. Thanaleng, the river port for Vientiane.
Rice Imports
Rice
('000 tons)
1968                      81
1969                      98
1970                     115
1971                     110
1972                      77
1973                      64
1974                     n.a.
1975                     n.a.
1976                     100
1977                     100
Sources: 1968-73 Bank report No. 668a-LA,
April 1975.
1976 and 1977 - Bank Staff Estimates.
Recommended Preproject Activities
25.       Recruitment of Design Advisor and Planning Advisor.   These two tech-
nical advisors should be recruited as soon as possible to assist in the detailed
formulation of the program. Terms of reference are in the appendix to this annex.
26.        The Directorate of Irrigation should arrange for the early prepara-
tion, by the Vientiane provincial, office. of a map at 1/50,000 scale. This
map should show the areas now devoted to paddy growing and also show the areas
which are affected by seasonal flooding. On the same map would be marked the
existing pumping stations, permanent headworks or dams, canal systems and
village-made structures, such as earth and brushwood dams. Aerial photographs
and mosaics would be used for this work.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
List of Structures for Houei Son Type
Unit          Quantity
Headworks & main canal intake
reinforced concrete                               cu m             180
fabricated steel gates                            kg               200
riprap protection                                 cu m             300
Controls in main canal (5 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m              50
Offtakes to distributaries (15 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m              15
fabricated steel gates                            kg               300
pipes, 60 cm diam.                                m                 45
Field offtakes (135 Nos)
pipes 20 cm diam.                                 m                135
reinforced concrete                               cu m              34
End structures in distributaries (9 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m              27
Check structures in distributaries (60 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m              30
Earthworks
at headworks site                                cu m            1,000
main canal                                                      10,000
distributaries                                                  25,000
drainage improvements                                            5,000
embankment                                                       1,200
access and farm roads (5 km)                                    12,000
Cross drainage structures (2 Nos)
reinforced concrete                              cu m                2
pipes, 60 cm diam.                               m                  20



ANNEX 1
Table 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
List of Structures for Ban Cheng Type
Unit          Quantity
Pumping station
Bank works protection                             cu m              100
Stilling basin
reinforced concrete                               cu m               10
Controls, main canal (5 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m               50
Offtakes to distributaries (15 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m               15
fabricated steel gates                            kg                 15
pipes 60 cm diam.                                 m                  45
Field offtakes (135 Nos)
pipes 20 cm diam.                                 m                 135
reinforced concrete                               cu m               34
End structures to distributaries (9 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m               27
Check structures in distributaries (60 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m               30
Earthworks
main canal                                        cu m           10,000
distributaries                                                   25,000
drainage improvements                                             5,000
access and farm roads (5 km)                                     12,500
Cross drainage structures (2 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m                 2
pipes 60 cm diam.                                 m                   20



ANNEX 1
Table 3
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
List of Structures for Ban Nakeo Type
Unit         Quantity
Headworks - drainage control
reinforced concrete                              cu m             120
rip-rap protection                               cu m              60
Offtakes
pipes, 20 cm diam.                              m                  15
Earthworks
headworks, canals, distributaries                cu m         20,000
embankment                                      cu m           2,000
access and farm roads (2 km)                     cu m           5,000



ANNEX 1
Table 4
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
List of Structures for Ban Ylai Type
Unit          Quantity
Repairs to headworks
reinforced concrete                               cu m              30
rip-rap protection                                cu m             150
Earthworks
distributaries                                    cu m           8,500
drainage improvements                             cu m           3.000
rehab., main canal                                cu m           49000
access and farm roads (3 km)                                     7,500
Main canal controls (2 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m              20
Cross drainage structures (1 No)
reinforced concrete                               cu m               1
pipes 60 cm diam.                                 m                 10
Distributary offtakes (5 Nos)
reinforced concrete                               cu m
fabricated steel gate                             kg               100
pipes 60 cm                                       m                 15
Field offtakes (45 Nos)
pipes 20 cm diam.                                 m                 45
reinforced concrete                               cu m           11.25
End structures to distributaries (3 Nos)
reinforced concrete                              cu m                6
Controls in distributaries (20 Nos)
reinforced concrete                              cum                10



ANNEX 1
Table 5
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
List of Structures for Pak Pung Type
Unit          Quantity
Drainage control
reinforced concrete                              cu m             250
fabricated steel gates                           kg             2,000
Earthworks
headworks, realignment and
strengthening main canal                                    50,000
flood protection embankment (400 m)                            10,000



LAO PEOPLES  I>EMOCRAt  Ri:PoiîiIC
A(CR t(:Uls I'UAI, IEHAMI11AWIJON ANI) 0EVI1'MhNf I«xJv'
Irrigat ion _o_npoinent
2Lant it1Ts and Cost Estimates of Irrigation and I)rainaage lorks per Sciheme Tm       e
Unit         Q_uantity                                                             _                 Cost
[teon               Ulnit   Price           Mlouiet     Ban          Ban         Ban          Pak        Hoonei        Ban          Ban          Ban          Pak
(US$)         Son        Cheng       Nakeo        Ylai         Pung          Son        Cheng        Nakeo        Ylat         l'ung
---------------------  Us   -- - -- - --  - -- -  -
Mat or  aIs
Cciîîont                      ton       67        140           89           44           41          75         9,380       5,963        2,948        2,747         5,025
Strel                         ton      370         42           21           15            9          31.25    15,540         7,770       5,550        3,330        11,562
Wire, natls, etc.             ton      370           4           2            1.44         0.88         3        1,480          740          533          325        1,110
Faibricated steel             ton   3,000            0.635       0.435        0.005        0.145        2        1,905        1,305           15         435         6,000
Pipes, 60 cm dia.            m          15         65           65            -           25           -           975          975            -         375             -
Pipes, 20 cm dia.            m           3        135          135           45           45           -           405          405          135         135             -
Timber                        Cu m     100          17           8.4          6            1.1         12.5      1,700          840          600          110        1,250
San1d /a                      cu m                202          130           65           60         112
Gravel /a                     cu m                304          151          108           66         225
Stonie /a                    cu m                 218          218           44          109           -
Fbartliworks
Manual                        cti m      2.3  25,000        25,000      10,000        8,500            -        57,500      57,500       23,000       19,550             -
Machiine /a                   CU m             29,700       27,500       17,000      14,500       60,000
Cornstruction costs
Salartes and wages                                                                                              12,480       4,160        3,120        1,560        12,480
Ruinniing costs
P.()..                                                                                                       21,490        7,163        5,372        2,686       21,490
Maintenance                                                                                                  14,320        4,773        3,580        1,790        14,320
Stibtotal constructionî costs                                                                                     48,290       16,096      12,072        6,036        48,290
Iper,rt i01i1 aîid mainrenanîico/year                                                                              3,000       36,420        1,000       1,200         3,000
/a  The cost of these items ts inclhuded ln construction costs.
a z
oJ Z !
h. fr.
aS -X



LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Irrigation Component
Annual Requirements of Materials /a
Year    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1982/82    1982/83           Total       Unit    Total
Description of Items    Unit    Quantity   Quantity   Quantity   Quantity   Quantity    Quantity            Cost    Cost
US$ '000
Foreign
Cement                  ton        651         651        699         624         576          3,201       0.067   214.467
Steel                   ton        196         196        208         177         162            939       0.370   347.707
Wire, nail, etc.        ton         19          19          20          17         15             90       0.370    33.344
Fabricated steel        ton          4           4           4          2           2             16       3.000    47.565
60 cm 0  pipes           m         230         230        270         270         245          1,245       0.015    18.675
20 cm 0  pipes           m         585         585        675         675         675          3,195       0.003      9.585
Dynamite, fuses, etc.                                                                                                 8.657
Total                                                                                                               680,000
Local
Timber                 cu m         69          69          76         64         60             338
Sand                    cu m      951         951      1,021         909         842          4,674
Gravel} (by machine)  cu m       1,421       1,421       1,506       1,281      1,170          6,799
Stone |                cu m      1,004      1,004       1,113        1,113      1,055          5,289
Earthwork by labor    cu m   114,000    114,000    130,500         130,500   132,000         621,000
Earthwork by machine  cu m   228,400    228,400    241,400         181,400   181,700       1,061,300
Fuel = diesel            1    546,000    546,000    674,200        623,330   879,750       3,269,280
Oil #30                  1      13,110     13,110      16,210       15,010    21,210          78,650
/a  For construction period during the October-May dry season.
(D X



ANNEX 1
Table 8
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
Salaries and Running Costs for Irrigation Teams
Total Annual
Team                 Salaries /a   Running Costs /b            Cost
--____---- (US$)-
Topographic survey   (3)        12,240               7,200             19,440
Topographic mapping  (2)         2,600                    -             2,600
Soils examination      (1)       2,670               2,400              5,070
Hydrology              (1)         980               2,400              3,380
Design                 (3)       7,980               2,400              3,380
Construction           (5)      62,400             179,050            241,450
Mobile servicing       (3)       6,060               7,200             13,260
Administration         (1)       2,380               1,800              4,180
Finance and accounts (1)         3,360               2,400              5,760
Procurement and
supply               (1)       5,090               4,800              9,890
Socio-economic
evaluation           (3)       1,470               1,800              3,270
Total                 107,230             214,450            321,680
/a  Salary of technicians and administrative officers = K 9,000/month.
Salary of assistants = K 8,200/month.
Salary of clerical staff = K 7,100/month.
/b  Running costs are F.E. costs for P.O.L. and maintenance of vehicles
and equipment.



ANNEX 1
Table 9
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
Cost of Equipment for Irrigation Teams
Team                No. of Teams    Cost per Team    Total Cost /a
-    …------- (US$   '000) …-------
Topographic survey                 3                14.6             43.8
Topographic mapping                2                 0.5              1.0
Soils examination                  1                 8.8              8.8
Hydrology                          1                11.5             11.5
Design                             3                10.9             32.7
Construction                       5                55.6            278.0
Mobile servicing                   3                15.1             45.3
Administration                     1                 5.5              5.5
Finance and accounts               1                 5.8              5.8
Procurement and supply             1                14.3             14.3
Socio-economic evaluation          3                 1.0              3.0
Total                                                       449.7
/a Excluding spare parts.



ANNEX 1
Table 10
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPIMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
Equipment for Survey, Design and Administrative Teams
Item                         Quantity      Unit Cost    Total Cost
…-----(US$ oo000)…---
Field Equipment
Theodolites (survey team)               3              4.5            13.50
Mis cellaneous equipment
(survey team)                                                        7.80
Miscellaneous equipment
(topomapping teams)                                                  1.05
Miscellaneous equipment
(soil exploration team)                                              0.24
Miscellaneous equipment
(soil field test team)                                               1.00
Miscellaneous equipment
(socio-economic teams)                                               1.20
Miscellaneous equipment
(hydrological team)                                                  3.95
Miscellaneous equipment
(design teams)                                                      10.29
Subtotal                                                        39.03
Miscellaneous Office Equipment
Administrative team                                                     1.45
Finance and accounts team                                              1.75
Procurement and supply team                                            2.25
Subtotal                                                         5.45
Vehicles and equipment
Truck, pick-up                          8              7.5            60.00
Personnel vehicles                      3              4.0            12.00
Motorcycles, 100 cc                     3              0.6              1.80
Forklift                                1              8.5             8.50
Subtotal                                                        82.30
Subtotal all equipment                                         126.78
Spare parts, 15% /a                                                      12.34
Total                                                          139.12
/a Spare parts for vehicles and equipment only.



ANNEX 1
Table 1l
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
Equipment for Construction and Mobile Servicing Teams
Item                        Quantity    Unit Cost    Total Cost
--    (US$ '000> ------
Farm tractor and trailer                3             20 0          60.00
Truck, lowbed trailer  25 ton           1             35 0          35.00
Truck, crane cargo  2-3 ton lift        1             15.6           15.60
Truck, cargo 6 ton                      5             10.4           52.00
Truck, 2 ton                            5              5.1           25.50
Pumps, water  5 HP                     10              1.5           15.00
Generator                               1              9 0            9.00
Electrical welding unit                 1              4.5            4.50
IIydraulic instrument sets              3              1.5            4.50
Engine testing instrument sets          3              0.7            2.10
Theodolites with tripods                3              3.4           10.20
Levels with tripods                     5               1.3           6.50
Miscellaneous tools and equipment:
(i) construction teams                                            20.65
(ii) mobile servicing teams                                         2.70
Subtotal                                                     323.25
Spare parts, 15% /a                                                 41.40
Total                                                        364.65
/a Spare parts for tractors, trucks, pumps, generators,
welding unit - totalling $276,600.



ANNEX 1
Table 12
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPIMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
Heavy Construction Equipment for Irrigation Component
Item                        Quantity    Unit Cost    Total Cost
-     (US$ '000)…
Tractor, crawler 180 HP                 2            87.00         174.00
Tractor, crawler  90 HP                 2            57.00         114.00
Dragline 0.6 cu m                       1            52.00          52.00
Tractor, backhoe loader 0.6 cu m        1            22.00          22.00
Front end loader, wheeled 1.2 cu m   2               15.50          31.00
Farm tractor and 4-wheel trailer
75-80 HP                              2            20.00         40.00
Motor grader 110-130 HP                 3            42.00         126.00
Vibrating roller  0.75-1.0 ton          1             8.76           8.76
Vibrating plate compactor  200 kg    1                2.50           2.50
Tamping rammer  80 kg                   1              1.00          1.00
Air compressor/rock drill               1              9.20          9.20
Tanker, water  6 ton                    2            13,50          27.00
Truck, dump  6 ton                      4            15.00          60.00
Subtotal                                                        667.46
Spare parts, 15%                                                  100.12
Total                                                           767.58



ANNEX 1
Table 13
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
Equipment for Pumping Schemes for Irrigation Component
Item                      Quantity    Unit Cost    Total Cost
…----- (US$ °°°O) …-----
Pumps, 750 1/sec                      4           150.            600



LAU PLUPLES 8EjIULCAFIC REPUBLIC
AL(,ILII.U_RAt. MEIABll.TArION AND OEVEL.UPNtENT P0oJELT
5=. .] rl.>acot aod O  lot., lorku    _olor t Coutu,
YenI                               ea  2                             Oa,3                            Ott4Ocr-ca   oa
Local     Foresrg       Total       Locl   Forosga       Totul       local    For-igo      Total    Local    Porcl8o         Totàl       L-l            Y        ur Totlotal
1.  Eqaîlpt,eat &                                   Lahlclco  -  1,211,350   1,271.350         -            -          -         -            -         -          -                  -                 -                         -  I,271i150   L,271,350
2.  Pumping plantr                               -           -            -          -         -            -          -  150,OOO      150,000           -  ISOOoù       150,000           -      300,000     300,0o0             _    600,000       600,000
3.  IMltorlala                              6,890      139,998     146,888      6,890   139,998      146,888      7,620  149,811       157.431      6,370   126,114      132,484       6,000      115,423      121,423       33,770     671,344      705,114
4.  Salarlet    - tog-t                    44,830            -      44,830   44,830            -      44,830   44,830            -      44,830    44,830           -      44,830      44,830             -      44,830      224,150            -    224,150
5.  a.bot - or dlftr- botoclea            262,200            -    262,200  262,200             -    262.200  300,150             -    300,150 3O O,150             -    300,150   303,600                -    303,600   1,428,300              -  I,42ë,300
6.  Rang cout                                    -      35,400      35,400           -   35,400       35,400           -   35,400        35,400             535400        35,400                   35,400       35,4O0             -    177.1(10    117,000
7.  î:o,,aîract oo <ot                     53,040     152,190      205,230    53,040   152,190       205,230    55,640   159,644       215,284    43,160   123,834       166,994      36,400      104,430      140,830      241,2d0     692,288      933,568
8.  Op.-atLoi   4 maintoato.,                    -           -            -          -   16,000        16,800          -   33,600        33,600     3,850   81,780        d5,630       7,700      126,960      134,660       11,55(      259,140     270,69()
9.  Sobtoto1                              366.960    .95938   19_659,898   366,960  344,388          711,348  40824e0  5S2 45          936.695  3,8360  5171.2h    9I15488   398,530              6822,13   _08_0_743  l.939 5 M   3-. O 711 22   >        lIa72
10.  POyaicol c,,,,ti,,gaacîaa              48,320      43,828       92,148   48,320    43,828         92,148    54,512    46,418       100.930    52,452    31,492        89,944      51,900       32,978       84,878      255,504     204,544      460,048
lot 3, 5 -,,d 7)
Il.  Sobtotal (9+10)                      415,280   _642 766  _L058,046   415.280   3          6      803,496  462,252   574,873  1,037,625  450,812   554,620  f,200S,432    450.430              715,191        1_65621j  L2,94 55S  3,875,66   6,U7L,2240
12.  Prica I-cra....                        47,757      188,918     236,675    82,640    17,255       159,895   132,347  164,414        296,761   170,407   209,646       380,053    215,305       341,861      557,166      640,456      982,094   1,630,550
13.  Total Proacit CoOt (11+12)           463,937   ,83_i64   2,294,721  497,920  465,471             963,391  595,099  739,287  1.334,386  61i19 7642,26  1,358,4                    665665,735  1,057,052  1,722,7d7Z  L4_3_l0    4,dS57,760 7,7()0.17
14.  Toabltoal a..iîta...o                        -     137,500     137,500           -  137,500      137,5UO           -  137,500      137,500           -  137,500      137,SOO            -             .           -            -    550,000       550,'0()
15.  Prîct   i-croa.e for t-th. atat.            -       23,500      23,500           -   39,900       39,100           -   58,t00       58,600           -   75,800       75,800            -            -                         -    197,800       91u7,808
16. Cra,,d Total (3+14+16)                463.037  1 992,684  2455121  497,920999   642,871  1,1420791  565_99   935,387    1,486  621_29  977.56   1,59b,785    665,735  1.057,052   1,722,?                              2_044,910  5 605a993>  8448.570
ro-



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPllBLIC
A(;RICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND I)EVI.LOPMI,NT PROJECT
Irrigation Componeint
Estimated Water Requirements
Jan.    Feb.     Mar.     Apr.     May    Jun.      Jul.     Aug.     Sept.      Oct.     Nov.     Dec.     Total
_'addy water reqluirements (mm)
Early padd_y planting
Nursery /a                                                                        40.0      0        0        0          0        0                 40
Land preparation /b                                                              162.0      0        0        0          0        0                162
Submersion requirements /c                                                         O      100.0      0        0          0        0                100
Crop coefficient                                                                   0        1.2      1.4       1.5       1.1      0                  -
Potential evapotranspiration                                                     112.0    110.0    107.0    110.0      127.0    117.0              683
Actual evapotranspirationi                                                         0      132.0   149.8   165.0        139.7      0                586.5
Total losses                                                                      75.0     75.0     75.0      75.0       0        0                300
I.ffective rainfall /d                                                           133.0   116.0    162.0   117.0          0        0                528
Diversion requirement                                                            144.0   191.0    62.8   123.0         139.7      0                660.5
Late paddy planting
Nursery                                                                            O       40.0      O        O          O        O                 40
Land preparation                                                                   0      162.0      0        0          0        0                162
Submersion requirements                                                            0        0      100.0      0          0        0                100
Crop coefficient                                                                   0        0        1.2       1.4       1.5      1.1                -
Potential evapotranspiration                                                     112.0   110.0    107.0   110.0       127.0   117.0                683
Actual evapotranspiratiou                                                          0        0      128.4    154.0      190.5    128.7              601.6
Total losses                                                                       0       75.0     75.0     75.0       75.0      0                300
Effective rainfall                                                               133.0   116.0    162.0    117.0        0         0                528
Diversion requireinent                                                             0      161.0   141.4    112.0      26r.5   128.7                808.6
Ear½ s_luid jate pla-lting
Diversion) requirement                                                            72.0    176.0   102.1    117.5      202.6      64.4              734.6
/a  400 airm over 10% of sturface area.
/b  180 ini over 90% of stirface area.
/c  100 miii over 100% of suirface area.
/d  E.ffect ive rainfall exrecded in 9 ou t of 10 yarsq.



L.AO PEOPLE 'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
ACRICULTIJRAL REHABILITATION ANI) DEVElOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
Climatological Data
Vientiane City                Jan.   Feb.    Mar.        Apr.     May     Jun.     Jul.     Aug.    Sept.       Oct.     Nov.     Dec.      Total
Raiinfall /a
Avejage (mm)                  3       6      383        90      270    288       268      314        280       81       12         7      1,996
Maximum (mm)                 20      19      101      241       407     418      402      657        489      217       35         7      3,013
Minimuim (mm)                 0       0         0       34      156    213       172      129        120        0        0        0         824
Relative hum y% /b              76      73       73       76       86      91       91        92        90       85       78        78
Temperature /c
Mean (OC)                    22      24       27         29      29      28       28       28         27       27       25       23
Maximum (OC)                 25      26       28         30      30      31       29       29         28       28       26       24
Minimum (OC)                 19      23       25         27      28      27       27       27         26       25       23       21
Evapurationj(mm)I/d           146    146       184        177     169     139      144      137        136      162      152       146
la  Period of observation 1963-72.
/b  Period of observation 1959-72.
/C  Period of observation 1960-72.
/d  Period of observationi 1962-72.
Source:  Feasibility Report on Casier Sudi 1974.  Japan Engineering Consultants.



ANNEX 1
Table 17
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
Composition of Vientiane Provincial Irrigation Staff
No. per     No. of
Function                        Staff per team                     team        teams
Administration            Chief administrator/personnel officer   1              1
Assistant personnel officer               2
Secretaries/typists                       2
Accounts                  Chief financial officer                    1           1
Accountant/paymaster                      4
Typists/bookkeepers                       2
Survey (topographic)      Technician                                1            3
Assistant technician                      2
Survey (topographic       Technician                                0.5          2
mapping)                Draftsman                                 2
Survey (soil)             Technician                                1            1
Assistant technician                      5
Survey (hydrology)        Technician                                2            1
Design                    Engineer                                  1            3
Technician                                1
Draftsman                                 2
Construction and          Technician                                1            5
O&M                     Assistant technician                      3
Equipment, supplies       Chief procurement officer                 1            1
workshop (procurement  Assistant procurement officer              1
and supplies)           Supply inventory officer                  1
Warehouse officer                         1
Typist/recorder                           2
Equipment, supplies       Mechanic                                  1           3
workshop (mobile        Assistant mechanics                       3
servicing)
Socio-economic            Technician                                1           3
evaluation



ANNEX I
Table 18
Page I
'AO PEOPLES DEJfOCRATIC REPUBLIC
ACRICULIURAL REHAbIL'IATION AND DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Existing and Probable S=all Drainage and Irrigatiorn Sche=es in Vientiane Province
Type of                           Mission
Str.ct.re                         Eqtioate
or works                          of area for    Supplying                              Survey       Design          Ccnstroction
EniStihR           Paddy Area   Irrigation          Catchnent                           Kocths       Honths          Months
Ttc.      ?  pl-ce         District          or Needed             (ha) ia         (ha)           (sq k=)           Renarks         Required       Req.ired       Required
Hc>uei          Noea-            Headvorks and          300           300                 64                                  5            3              6
Snn               Thong            distribution
A       Na- Me-           Sana-             Headworks              240           300                20             Tributary vf          5           3              6
nnan                                                                                     Mekong. Flood
prevention
works
O    A            lh -ane                                                96           300                                                     5            3              6
--    A        Hevei             Vientiane                                          6 a 300                               Location to         30           18             16
Son tvpe          Province                                                                                 be decided
by Directorate
C     B   oan Ceneg       Thoura-          Pvmping otation         300           300          From Na. Ngum                             4            4              3
knom             and distrib.tion
:- San \n4                Phone            Pumps and               300           300          From Nam Lik                              4            4              3
Cncc              Rang             distribotion
3       8-n Kok                                                    150           300                               Existing             4            4              3
.l-ng                                                                                                      distribui-on
needs iaprove-
ments
3       Son Hat           Thoura-                                  400           300          From Nam NSgm                             4            4              3
No i              kho=
-17 B        Ban Cheng                                                             4 x 300                              Location to be   16              16              3
type pump-                                                                                                 decided by
4og sche=e                                                                                                 Directorace
*     C       Ban Sakeo                           Replace earth          100           100                                Also reconat.        I            I           1-1/2
dan                                                                    distrib.tion
: C      an Na Pheng                        Headworks gocd         200           100                 50            Flooding repairs   1              1            1-1/2
condition                                                              to intake and
canal s
C       Nov. igar                           headworks and          400           100                               Replace earth        I            I            1-1/2
distribti-on                                                           da.
sys tea
C       Bon Na ian                                                 150           100                               Replace broken       I            1            1-1/2
dam and renne-
struct canail
Ban Vang                                                   230           100                                                    1                         1-1/2
Viang
C       Nan ?.                              Repairs to canal       500           100                                       1 1                                    1-1/2
and realign.ent
C       Ban Rong -                          Replace oarth          100           100                20             As for 2             l            1            1-1/2
ph-nng                             dar                                                                     and 6
Catchment smail!
C       3Sn               Thoura-          Headworks               200           100                 6             Little pros-         1            1            1-1/2
Ekxang            krnr                                                                                     pect of off-
season cropping
ni    c      Bc, "ola,                           Heacvorkn               IO0+          100                20             Also flooding        i            I            1-1/2
problen
Catchrent smaAI
-C Dan Na<c                                 Heod-orkn  *o be       300           i00                  5            A srail T.C.          l           I             -1i2
cùnnnrvnted and                                                         strîctîre using
onanls repaired                                                        drop plankv and
dîstrîbat ion



ANNEX I
Table 18
Pe 2
Type of                            Mission
Structure                          Estimate
or Works                           of area for       Supplying                            Survey        Design         Construction
Existing            Paddy Area    Irrigation         Catchment                           Menths         Months         Honths
So.  Type      Place              District          or Needed             (ha) i.          (ha)           (sq km)            Remarks        Requtred        Required       Req,ired
Catchoest amall.
28     C       Ban Nakang         Thoura-          Replace earth           100           100                   8         Drop plank               I            1            1-112
kho=             dam                                                                   control and
distribution
29-33 C        Ban "akco                                                               5 x 100                           Location to be           5            5            1-1/2
type                                                                                                      decided by
Direc torate
3.    D        Ban Ylai           Phone Hong         Repairs to            250            120                            Canals need              2            31
distribution.                                                       repair
Existing veir
35     C       San Kay'                                                    500            120                            Flume needed             2            3               1
36     D       ban Done           Van viaun                                200            120                                   -                 2            3               1
37     D       Na:n Sg-yali                                                300            120                                   -                 2            3               1
38    D        Ban NSao.ang                                                 60            120                                   -                 2            3               1
39     D       Sa= Lao                                                     150           120                             Cabion dam               2            3               1
40     D       N-C Thaue                                                   440            120                                   -                 2            3               1
41     D       Ban Phonekok                                                   7.5         120                                    -                2             3              1
42     D       Ban Ngiou                                   '               100            120                                                     2            3               1
43     D       B.a  Viang                           Repatrs to canals        30           120                                                     2            3               1
Sa=ay
44     i       Ban Thas                                                     80            120                                                     2            3               1
None
45     D       Na. Ka                   '                                  200            120                                                     2            3               1
Cath.ment smaii.
46    D        hiuel              Phore Hong        Cuivert vith           200            120                  3         Needs repair tu          2            3               1
Sida                                control                                                               casals
47     D       Sas Kat            Kagi              Repairs to da.         270            120                 10         Casals seed              2            3               1
and distribution                                                      realignment
48-49 D        B.a  Ylai                                                              2   120                                  *                  4            6               1
type
50     E       Pak Pung           Paksan           Drainage control        300           300                             On Mekong.               1            3               6
sisilar to
item 15
51     i       Ban Mak Nao        hat Soy Fong   Pumps vith                200            300                  -         Restoration of           1            3               6
drainage costrc1                                                     derelict scheme
on Pak Siat
52     E       Pak Pung                                                                   300                            Location to              1            3               i
type                                                                                                      tm decided by
Di rec torate
Susary       9 Nos. A, Hoel Son type                2,700 ha
4 Nos. B, Oas Cheng type               1,200 ha
16 Sos. C, Ban Nakeo type               1,600 ha
16 Sos. D, Ban Yla'  type               1,920 ha
3 Nos. E, Pak Pung type                  900 ha
Area benefited             8.320 ha
/a  Data provlded by Directorate of Irrigation.



ANNEX 1
Table 19
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
Schedule of Construction of Schemes /a
Type of                                         Number of schemes
scheme                  1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82       1982/83     Total
Houei Son type            2            2            2             2            1            9
Ban Cheng type            -            -            1             1            2            4
Ban Na Keo type           3            3            3            3             4           16
Ban Ylai type             4            4            3            3             2           16
Pak Pung type             1            1            1            -             -            3
Total              10            10           10            9            9           48
/a  Construction period during the October-May dry season.



LAU PEOPLE'S DEMOCRAflC REPUBL1(,
AGRICULTURE REHABII.ITAT1ON AND DEVLLOPII-NtFR PRUlEUT
Small Irrigation and l)rainage Works Component
_ Area Uder Rice Production Lha)
Year 7
Type          Year 0    Year l          Year 2        Year 3        Year 4          Year 5         Year 6            Pull production
no.     ha   no.    lia   no.       ha   no.       hda   n.      ia    110.    ha       no.     ha      lia       ha
F_irst year of          A.  Houei Son                2      600    2      600    2      600   2       600    1        300
production            B.  Ban Cheng               -         -   -         -    I      300    1      300    2       600
C.  Ban Nakeo               3      3')0   3      30(    3       300    3      300   4        400
D.  Ben Ylai                4      480   4       430    3      360    3       360   2        240
E.  Pak Purig               1      300    1      300    1       300   -         -   -           -
Subtotal                                     10   1,680  10   1 680   10         ,860         1,560   9       1,540
SeconIId year of        A.  Houei Son                              2      600    2      600   2       600    2        600    1       300
production            B.  Ban Cheng                             -         -   -         -   1       300    1        300    2       600
C.  Ban Nakeo                             3      300    3      300   3        300   3        300   4         400
D.  Ban Ylai                              4      480   4       480   8        360   3        360    2        240
E.  Pak Pung                              1      300    1      300    1       300   -          -   -           -
Wet      Dry
Subtotal                                                    10   1,680  10    160#  10   1,860   9            1,560   9      1,540         season  season  Total
Tiird year of           A.  Ilouei Son                                           2      600   4   1,200   6         1,800   8      2,400    9    2,700       810    3,510
production            B.  Ban Cheng                                            -        -   -         -   1         300   2        600    4     1,200      600    1,800
C.  Ban Nakeo                                           3      300   6        600   9        900  12      1,200   16      1,600      480    2,080
D.  Ban Ylai                                            4      480    8       960  11      1,320   14     1,680   16      1,920      576    2,496
E.  Pak Pung                                            1      300    2       600    3       900    3        900    3       900      270    1,170
Subtotal          (hectares)        8.320                                 10    1,680  20   3,360  30        5,220  39       6,780  48      8,320  2,736   11,056
TIotal hectarca         Wet season                  10   1,680  20   3,360  30   5,220  39   6,780  48             8,320  48       8,320  48      8,320
Dry season                         504         1,008         1,626         2,154           2,736          2,736           2,736                        H
Granid toual      Both seasons                     X184                                       8,934                         11,056          11,056
~2 ~8 4  4_, -68  6,846  8 94  11,056      il (6          11,056                         CD 



LAU PLOPLE'S DEIIOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REIIABILITATIOH AMiD DEVELOPIIENT PROJECT
_maii Irrigation and Drainage Works Component
Schedule of Paddy Area and Production Under Project
----------------------------------…Year  -------------                               Total
Type of Schemes                        0         1          2          3          4          5          6           7        New
Houei Son (300 ha) /a
Area developed (ha)                                600        600        600        600         300                             2,700
- Number constructed p.a.                              2          2           2          2          1                                  9
Dan Cheng (300 ha) la
- Area developed (ha)                                  -          -        300        300         600                             1,200
- Number constructed p.a.                              -          -           1          1          2                                  4
Ban Nakeo (100 ha) /a
- Area developed (ha)                                300        300        300         300        400                             1,600
- Number constructed p.a.                              3          3           3          3          4                                 16
Ban Ylai (120 ha) /a
- Area developed (ha)                                480        480        360         360        240                             1,920
- Number constructed p.a.                             4           4           3          3          2                                 16
Pak Pung (300 ha) /a
- Area developed (ha)                                300        300        300           -          -                               900
- Number constructed p.a.                              1           1          1          -          -                                  3
Total hectares developed                           1,680      1,680      1,860       1,560      1,540                             8,320
- Total number of new schlemes                        10         10          10          9          9                                48
Total paddy production (tons)
- l;ithout project                       9,984    9,984       9,984      9,984      9,984      9,984       9,984      9,984
- With project                               -   11,996      14,500     17,893    20,989    24,227        25,198    25,720
Incremental paddy production                 -    2,012       4,516      7,909     11,005     14,243      15,214     15,736
/a   Hectares developed refer to wet season only; an additional 30% ha p.a. of all gravity schemnes and 50% of pumping                   1 X
schemes will be cultivated during three dry seasons, bringing the total incremental area to 11,056 ha (an addition of
2,736 ha for dry season).



ANNEX 1
Appendix A
Page 1
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services - Terms of Reference
1. Advisor in Drainage and Irrigation Design and Construction
Background
The Directorate of Irrigation of the Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
wishes to carry out a program of construction of small drainage and irrigation
schemes in Vientiane Province. Completion of such works would make a signifi-
cant contribution to improvement of rice production in the province.
In Vientiane Province some 50 paddy areas amounting to over 8,000 ha
have been identified as locations which would benefit from gravity or pumped
irrigation and drainage control. In some of these areas, irrigation works have
been constructed but these works now require rehabilitation or reconstruction.
The Provincial Irrigation Service's engineering and technical staff wish to
receive assistance in the formulation and construction of such small schemes.
Following a government request UNDP have agreed that the services of an experi-
enced design advisor would be provided for the four-year program.
Qualifications and Experience
The advisor's qualifications and experience would be:
(a)  a university degree and professional qualifications in civil
engineering;
(b) substantial practical experience in planning, design and construction
of drainage and irrigation projects in monsoon climate areas where
paddy is the traditional crop;
(c) during the last ten years, service at the level of chief resident
engineer or chief design engineer with either an engineering consul-
tant firm, or drainage and irrigation department, largely in develop-
ing countries; and
(d) ability to assist in training and instructional activities associated
with the setting up of a design office and construction organization
where present facilities are inadequate.



ANNEX 1
Appendix A
Page 2
Duties
The advisor would be required to assist in the engineering activities
undertaken by the Vientiane Provincial Irrigation Service. He would be stationed
in Vientiane and responsible to the Chief of the Provincial Irrigation Service.
Initially he would advise staff in the execution of irrigation area surveys.
His principal task, however, would be to assist and advise in the design and
construction of all hydraulic structures needed for the irrigation of the
selected paddy areas. He would be required to ensure that all schemes were
adequately presented for appraisal and approval by the Director of Irrigation.
He would also actively assist in preparation of tender documents and evaluation
of bids.



ANNEX 1
Appendix A
Page 3
2. Advisor in Drainage and Irrigation Planning
Background
The Directorate of Irrigation of the Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
wishes to carry out a program of irrigation development throughout the 13
provinces of the country. The staffing position, particularly of engineers,
would restrict this program initially to Vientiane Province, but it is
expected that there will be an early increase in the engineer establishment
with the development of programs in other provinces.
The Director of Irrigation would approve and have overall control of
the provincial program. It is considered that the Director's staff in Vien-
tiane requires, in the first four years, the services of an experienced civil
engineer planning advisor. Following a government request, UNDP have agreed to
provide the services of such an advisor.
Qualifications and Experience
The advisor's qualifications and experience would be:
(a) a university degree and professional qualifications in civil engineer-
ing;
(b) substantial experience in appraising the technical feasibility and
economic viability of irrigation schemes;
(c) during the last ten years experience of irrigated agricultural
development planning with a consultant or with a Government rural
development organization, largely in developing countries; and
(d) ability to train staff of the Directorate of Irrigation in the
techniques involved in examining plans and proposals submitted by
provincial irrigation officers.
Duties
The engineer would be required to assist and advise the Director
of Irrigation to whom he would be responsible in planning for the expansion of
the activities of the Directorate throughout the country. The Directorate
would, in the course of the next few years, plan and determine the program of
work throughout the country commencing in Vientiane Province. The advisor
would be required to assist the Director of Irrigation in drawing up this
development program and in supervision of the design and implementation of
the irrigation structures by the Provincial Irrigation Services.



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX B
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
XXXXXXXX SCHEME
SCHEME SUMMARY DATA FORM
Date Approved by:
Approving Officer:
Project Summary Prepared by:



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX B
Page 2
I. SALIENT FEATURES OF THE PROJECT
General
District/s in which project is located:
Name of river:
Size of catchment area:                  sq km
Size of cultivable command area:                  ha
Hydrology
Rainfall: Number of years of records inside project area:
Number of years of records from station             which is located
km from project area:
Streamflow: Number of years of current meter measurements:
Number of years of other streamflow measurements:
Number of years of reconstituted streamflow for reservoir
operations study:
Reservoir capacity:  Total storage:                 cu m
Live storage:                cu m or      % of average
annual runoff
Irrigation
Conveyance efficiency: Main canal operating full (80-100% capacity):
Main canal operating at less than 80% of capacity:
Field irrigation efficiency:  Paddy:        %
Assumed percolation losses in paddy fields:           mm/day
Irrigated areas:  Wet season, paddy:    _     ha   or          % of CCA
Dry season, paddy:           ha   or   __% of CCA
Full wet season irrigation requirements would be provided _             years out of 100.
Costs and Benefits
Total project cost:  K          million
Benefit/cost ratio:



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX B
Page 3
(Subsequent pages of the Project Summary would contain, at least, the
following headings)
Il. THE PROJECT AREA
Climate
Topography and Soils
(Summarize the conclusions of the soil survey. Discuss land classifi-
cation, drainage problems, Need for land leveling/shaping.)
Population, Farm Sizes and Land Tenure
(Population within the gross command area. Landless population.
Summarize the results of the relevant parts of the agro-economic survey.)
Agriculture
(Summarize the agricultural results of the agro-economic survey. Yields,
cropping patterns, use of fertilizers and high-yielding varieties.)
III. THE PROJECT
General
(Brief summary of the proposed works, size of cultivable command area, etc.)
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
(Rainfall, hydrology and reservoir yields. Catchment area. Wlater demand
and rule curves for water releases from the dam. Reservoir storage capa-
city calculations. Results of reservoir operations. Study would be
summarized in Attachment 2.)
Dam
(Description of damsite geology and design parameters of the dam.)
Irrigation and Drainage Network
(Description, design parameters, control structures, communication system.)



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX B
Page 4
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Construction Organization
(Describe in detail the proposed organization for project implementation.)
Equipment Requirements
(List either in text or in an Attachment-,
Implementation Schedule and Schedule of Expenditures
(Bar chart would be attached in Attachment 3. The schedule of expenditures
should have taken the projected price increases into account. A simple chart
showing accumulated expenditures would be in Attachment 4.)
Resettlement
(Comment on plans for resettlement of displaced persons)
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Agricultural Development
(Discuss the proposed cropping pattern against the background of the
soil survey and land classification. Discuss any constraints to the
agricultural development of the area.)
Benefit Matrix
(First discuss adjustments made to the financial costs in order to achieve
the economic costs. Second, show the complete benefit matrix.)
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
(Does the project conform to the established criteria? Is it approved by
Directorate of Irrigation? Has it been submitted to IDA for approval?)
Attachment 1:  Climatic Data
Attachment 2:  Summary of Reservoir Operations Study
Attachment 3:  Implementation Schedule (Chart)
Attachment 4:  Schedule of Expenditures (Chart)
IAP 1:  Project Area (showing dam, irrigation and drainage network, recommended
scale 1:10,000 with 0.5 m contour intervals)
MAP 2:  Land classification
MAP 3:  Large-scale map of dam and typical cross sections
MAP 4:  Length section of main canal showing off-takes, cross regulation and
escapes
MAP 5:  Typical layout of distributary with turnouts and the area commanded under
each turnout



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX B
Page 5
Form for Establishing Economic Viability of Small-Scale Irrigation Project
Average wet season rainfall              Area    Benefit factor /1   Total Benefit
(MIay-September), r =    mm              (ha)          K/ha                  (K)
BENEFITS
A. With Project Cropping Pattern
Wet season                               x                 =
Irrigated paddy                        x                 =
Dry season                               x                 =
Irrigated paddy                        x                =
Value of production with
project (1)
B. Present Cropping Pattern
(without project)
Wet season                               x                 =
Irrigated paddy                        x
Dry season                               x                 =
Irrigated paddy                        x
Value of production wihout
project (2)
C.  Economic Benefits from Project
(3) = (1) - (2)
Costs
Project Cost (4)
Benefit/Cost Ratio
(5) = (3) -e (4)
/1 To be formulated after discussions between the Directorate of Irrigation
and IDA supervision missions.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Rice Intensification Project
Introduction
1.        Glutinous rice, the staple food of the population, accounts for 90%
of the area under cultivation each year. The area under rice cultivation is
estimated to be about 770,000 ha of which some 250,000-300,000 ha is the area
cropped each year on upland soils under slash and burn cultivation ("rai")./l
The area under irrigation is less than 20,000 ha and consequently production
both on lowland and upland soils is very dependent on rainfall. The yield
of rainfed lowland rice is estimated at an average of 1.2 tons/ha paddy and
of upland rice at an average of about 0.8 tons/ha paddy./2 In the Vientiane
Province, the potential area of lowland rice is estimated to be 102,000 ha and
upland rice, 15,000 ha. Total production in the province is estimated at 134,000
tons paddy or 80,000 tons rice, whereas its requirement is considered to be
110,000 tons rice./2
Present Situation
2.        These low paddy yields are a consequence of the traditional, low
input farming systems which are widely practiced. Due to the long dry season
and unreliable rainfall during the wet season, farmers are not prepared to
risk making expenditures on fertilizer under such uncertain conditions. Under
conditions of satisfactory water supply and with applications of about 100 kg/ha
urea, wet season crops in small-scale research trials have reached 3-4 tons/ha
paddy. Using twice the above amount of fertilizer, dry season yields have
achieved over 4 tons with modern high yielding varieties in trial. There is
therefore considerable potential for yield improvement. The major limiting
factor in reaching this potential is good water management. Until this is
achieved there will be little progress in rice intensification through use of
high yielding varieties, intensive cropping and high levels of farm inputs.
3.        Currently there is very little activity in rice research.  The total
quantity of improved rice variety seed produced for farmers in Vientiane Pro-
vince was less than 10 tons in 1975. The main rice research center for the
country is Salakham Research Station located 13 km from Vientiane. The sta-
tion has 14 ha of which 6 ha is used for rice seed multiplication and 4 ha
for a modest research program involving varietal testing and trials of
cultivation techniques. Irrigation water is sufficient for the wet season
but in the dry season only 0.3-0.5 ha can be irrigated. At nearby liat Dok
Keo Research Station, a further 14 ha of land is used for rice seed production.
/1  Some findings relative to "The Reconstruction and Economic Development of
Laos," Bank Report April 4, 1975.
/2 Source: Directorate of Agriculture, Lao PDR.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        Other facilities at Salakham are the main research building, rice
seed storage silos, an air conditioned storage room with capacity for about
100 tons breeder's seed, dormitory accommodation for 15 farmers on training
courses and a small workshop. The research building has laboratory space
of about 300 sq m and could accommodate about 10 research officers and
research assistants. There is a serious shortage of qualified research
staff. Present staffing consists of the Director of the Station, two Deputies
(a breeder and an agronomist) and six research assistants/technicians. The
budget is inadequate and merely covers salaries. The station has neither
equipment nor electricity.
Project Objectives and Location
5.        Under present conditions the most financially attractive input to
the farmer is the use of improved local varieties, the main demand being for
Sampathang and Donangnouane. Under the project it is intended that Salakham
would concentrate its activities over the next two to three years upon:
- rice seed multiplication of local varieties
- improvement of cultivation techniques under local conditions
for both rainfed and irrigated paddy
- farmer training and field demonstration
- breeding of new rice varieties
A major objective of the project to be carried out over three years would be
rice seed multiplication for release to farmers.
6.        The project would be located at Salakham Research Station and at
Hat Dok Keo Station, a total of 20 ha in the wet season and 10 ha in the dry
season being used for the seed production program.
Project Works
7.        The project would provide for the financing of:
(a) improvement of irrigation facilities at Salakham Research Station
including construction of a 60 m deep well, a reservoir and purchase
of a pump;
(b) a transmission line for electricity supply at Salakham;
(c) equipment including l tractor, 2 hand tractors with accessories and
spare parts, 5 threshers, 3 motor sprayers, 200 hand sprayers, 4
rice transplanters, 1 grain drier and various other pieces of
equipment;
(d) vehicles including 1 truck, 1 pickup, 3 motorcycles;
(e)  training equipment for farmer training courses which would cater
for 30 farmers per course, lasting 1-2 weeks. During each year,
there would be about 10 courses; and



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(f) inputs (fertilizers and insecticides) including:
(i) inputs for the research station and on-farm trials;
(ii) a revolving fund for provision of one year's supply of seeds,
fertilizers and insecticides to irrigated areas in Vientiane
Province. The level of inputs is given in Annex 1, page 9
and estimated yield levels in Annex 1, page 10. It is assumed
that this fund would be sufficient for some 2,500 ha of
land with satisfactory water management and control. Total
area receiving this agronomic package would be 500 ha in year
1; 1,500 ha in year 2; and 2,500 ha in year 3;
(g)  technical assistance in the form of a specialist in rice production
and associated support equipment to be provided by UNDP;
(h) a proportion of operating costs.
Seed Production and Rice Technology
8.        The estimated production of 75 tons of seed would be released
to farmers and on the basis of a sowing rate of 30 kg/ha would be sufficient
for 2,500 ha. However, as farmers require fresh seed only every four to five
years, this seed production would eventually serve 10,000-12,500 ha in the
Vientiane Province. This appears a suitable target for the next three years
and represents a sevenfold increase in seed production in the province.
Research programs would be related to the present condition of
agriculture in the province. Any change from the present low input, low risk
rice farming system to a medium input system will be gradual and research
programs should aim at such gradual change rather than at early development
of sophisticated high input systems. Initially research workers would
concentrate upon improvement of low cost techniques which limit yields such
as nursery management, standards of land preparation, timing of field planting,
planting technique, spacing and standards of weeding.
Cost Estimates
10.       Investment cost requirements amount to $1.37 million while operating
costs for three years are $0.13 million. Details of costs and of phasing of
expenditures are provided in Tables 1 and 2.
Project Financing
11.       The proposed rice intensification component of the credit would be
for US$1.5 million of which about 90% or US$1.35 million would be for F.E.
requirements and about 10% or US$0.15 million would be for local currency
requirements.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Organization and Management
12.       The Director of Agriculture or his representative would assume
overall responsibility for program execution as Project Director. The
Director of Salakham Research Station would submit an annual work program of
activities and budget to the Director of Agriculture for approval. At the
same time the Director of Agriculture would submit to the Director General
an evaluation report on progress at Salakham in the previous year.
13.       The Director of Salakham Research Station would be responsible
for the activities of the station and would be assisted by a minimum of two
Lao research officers qualified in breeding and agronomy. Government and
UNDP have signed an agreement to provide a rice specialist to the station
for three years. The complement of 6 research assistants/technicians would
be increased from about 6 to 16 and laborers from 20 to 25.
14.       The Directorate of Agriculture would arrange extension services
to farmers receiving the agronomic package in areas of good water management
through the Provincial Agricultural Service of Vientiane Province. Currently
this service is staffed with ten technicians trained in agricultural colleges
and 150 extension agents, trained by the Directorate. About 16 extension
agents would be selected and trained to assist in the application of the
agronomic package over the 2,500 ha (some 1,600 farmers) under the project.
Estimates of seed, fertilizer and insecticide requirements in particular areas
would be compiled by Farmers' Associations assisted by extension agents who
would arrange the suply of these inputs at the appropriate time from stocks
controlled by the Directorate of Agriculture.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Intensification Compopnent
Phasing of Expendîtures
(K'000)
Year
1           2           3        Total
Investment Costs
Equipment & vehicles                     44,600             -          -      44,600
Construction reservoir & deep well        5,500             -          -       5,500
Revolving fund                            7,700        15,400    15:500        38,600
Technical assistance & support           44,000       44,000    44,000       132,000
equipment
Subtotal                            1j2,800       59,400    59,500       220,700
Contingencies:
physical /a                             5,850             -          -       5,850
Subtotal                            107,650       59,400    59,500       226,550
Expected price increases /b            15,448       12,355    19,717        47,520
Total investment costs            123,098       71,755      9,217      274,07
Operating Costs
Operating Costs                           8,100        9,000      9,000       26.100
Total operating costs               §j909,000                           26,100
Total investment and operating
costs                          131,198        80,755    88,217       300,170
/a 15% of equipment costs.
/b Excluding construction of reservoir and deep well.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPU3LIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Intensification Component
Project Cost Estimates
K'000                        US$'000
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Investment Costs
Equipment & vehicles              -    44,600    44,600         -     223.0    223.0
Construction reservoir &
deep well                   5,500          -     5,500    27.5         -       27.5
Revolving fund                    -    38,600    38,600         -     193.0    193.0
Technical assistance              -   132,000   132,000         -     660.0    660.0
Subtotal                  5,500   215,200   220,700    27e5  1L076.0  1,103.5
Contingencies:
Physical                        -      5,850     5,850               29.5     29.5
Expected price increases  4,300    43,200    47,520    21,5    216.1    237.6
Subtotal                  4,300    49,070    53,370    21.5    245.6    267.1
Total investment
costs                9,800   264,270   274J070    49.0  11,321.6  1,370.6
Operating Costs
Salaries                      6,400          -     6,400    32.0         -      32.0
Labor                         7,600          -      7,600    38.0        -      38.0
Maintenance vehicles,
equipment                   3,200     3,200      6,400    16.0      16.0      32.0
Maintenance buildings         1,000          -     1,000      5,0        -        5.0
Production inputs for
trials                          -     2,600      2,600       -      13.0      13.0
Training courses              2,100          -     2,100    10.5         -      10.5
Subtotal '20,300                    5800    26,100   101.5        29.0    130.5
Total operating
costs               20,300      5p800    26,100   101.5       29.0    130.5
Base cost                    25,800   221,000   246,800   129.0  1,105.0  1,234.0
Physical contingencies            -     5,850      5,850       -      29.3      29.3
Expected price increases    4,300    43,220    47,520    21,5    216.1    237.6
Total cost              30,100   270,070   300,170   150.5  1,350.4  1,500.9



ANNEX 2
Table 3
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Intensification Component
Equipment for Rice Intensification Component
Item                        Quantity    Unit Cost    Total Cost
…__--…(US$ 000)…
Farm tractor & implements, 65 HP           1         20.00          20.00
Hand tractors                              2           2.00          4.00
Motor sprayers                           23            0.35          8.05
Hand sprayers                           200            0.04          8.00
Rice threshers                            5            1.50          7.50
Rice transplanters                        4            1.25          5.00
Grain drier                                1           1.25          5.00
Seed testing equipment                                               5.00
Refrigerator                               1           1.50          1.00
Training equipment, farmer courses                                  40.00
Furniture                                                            3.00
Transmission line                                                   20.00
Deep well, tube filter & lining                                      5.00
Deep well, pumps, 15 HP                   3          10.00          30.00
Truck, 6 ton                               1         12.00          12.00
Truck, pick-up 1.5 ton                    1           7.50           7.50
Motorcycles, 125 cc                      10             .75          7.50
Subtotal                                                      193.55
Spare parts, 15%                                                   29.03
Total                                                         222.58



ANNEX 2
Appendix A
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Rice Intensification Project
Technical Services - Terms of Reference
Rice Management Specialist
Background
1.        The Directorate of Agriculture of the Lao People's Democratic
Republic wishes to implement a program for improvement of rice yields,
initially in Vientiane Province. The proposed Rice Intensification Project
to be jointly financed by Government and IDA is attached (Annex 2 of the
Appraisal Report). Government has requested that UNDP provide the services
of a rice management specialist to assist with this program for a period
of three years.
Qualifications and Experience
2.        The specialists' qualifications and experience would be:
(a) a university degree in agronomy with at least seven years
experience of rice research and technology of improved
rice production. Post-graduate training in crop agronomy
or breeding; and
(b)  at least seven years experience in irrigated farm management
and rice production in a developing country.
Duties
3.        The specialist would be required to:
(a) advise and assist with the establishment of seed multiplication
facilities, sufficient to produce 70 tons/year of improved seeds
on Salakham and Hat Dok Keo Stations;
(b) advise upon the development of cultivation techniques for
rice grown under both rainfed and irrigated conditions;
(c) advise and assist with programs for farmer training, field
demonstration and extension;
(d)  advise and assist with the operation of the research program
of Salakham Research Station; and
(e) advise on specific agronomic problems of rice production
arising within the project area.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig Multiplication Component
Present Situation
1.        Approximately 90% of pig production is by small farmers who raise
1 or 2 pigs under typical backyard conditions. Weaners are purchased at 6-8
weeks weighing about 15 kg and are kept for about 9 months until they reach
about 90 kg liveweight. Generally, pig raising by small farmers is regarded
as a means of utilizing rice bran; to this is added household scraps (residual
vegetables and boiled rice after family consumption). Therefore, pig raising
is an important complementary enterprise to rice cropping, as well as a form
of saving in the farm economy. Local breeds, with poor technical coefficients
but well adapted to local conditions, are generally used.
2.        In addition to traditional pig raising, there are some small livestock
operators in and around the main cities and a few larger commercial pig farms.
Around Vientiane, there are 5 large pig farms, one of which, the breeding and
fattening station of Nanockhum, is managed by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Its average production is about 40-50 fattened pigs per month. In addition,
it is estimated that about 1,200 small livestock holders, each with 5-10 pigs,
are operating in the area. Modern techniques are used by these producers;
piglets (mainly Large White and Landrace) are imported from Thailand. Mixed
feed bought from the Government feed mill is used and vaccination against the
main disease (swine fever) is generally practised.
3.        Housing.  The year round hot climate reduces pig housing requirements
to a minimum, permitting the use of open type shelters to be used as protection
from sun and rain and dividing up pigs into manageable groups for feeding and
husbandry. In larger units the tendency to allow too much floor space for
fattening pigs exists.
4.        Diseases.  Although all the common diseases that affect pigs are
present, they can be prevented and controlled by vaccination, hygiene and
appropriate veterinary medication. The required vaccines and veterinary medica-
tions for the proposed project will be imported mainly from Thailand. Swine
fever (hog cholera) is the most common disease and outbreaks may occur if
sows are not vaccinated regularly. The importance of regular treatment for
worms is not sufficiently appreciated, but if it is not provided, infestation
can result in reduced returns. Likewise pig mange is common because prevention
and control measures are not always practised, and piglet anemia is a problem
because iron preparations are not always administered. It is expected that
disease control will be adequate under the proposed project because the sow
units will be owned and operated by the Directorate of Livestock and adequate



ANNEX 3
Page 2
technical expertise should be available. Small producers will also receive
technical assistance from the Directorate of Livestock technicians and since
the numbers are extremely small per farm, disease should not be a problem.
5.        Feeds.  The main animal feeds available in Laos are by products of
rice unsuitable for human consumption. These include two grades of rice
bran and broken rice. In the traditional sector pigs are usually fed a
mixture of rice bran, household surpluses and purchased pig rations (if
available). Rice bran, particularly the lower grade, has too much fibre for
pigs and even high quality bran should not if possible constitute more than
30% of the feed ingredients.  Although maize, which is an excellent pig feed,
is grown and can be produced without difficulty, the current supply is inade-
quate to meet the projected demand. Balanced pig feeds are imported from
Thailand but the continuity of supply cannot be assured. Therefore the quality
and sometimes the quantity of feed available is the main constraint on pig
production in Lao P.D.R. A Government feed mill located in Vientiane and a new
mill planned under French bilateral aid would provide the feeds required for
the proposed Project. Government has informed the mission that priority would
be given to this Project in allocating feed supplies. It is expected that the
supply of feeds will markedly improve before the project becomes effective for
the following reasons:
(a) Government is taxing rice producers in kind and this will
result in a considerable proportion of the rice crop and
rice by products being brought under direct Government control;
(b) A decision has been taken by Government to abolish the tax on
maize and it is expected that the price paid to producers will
increase from 15 to 25 k/kg; at this price an adequate supply
should be forthcoming;
(c)  The Livestock Directorate will have about 1,000 ha upland soil
available around its sow units which are well-suited for maize
production if required, particularly since pig siurry will be
available as a relatively cheap source of fertilizer;
(d) UNDP will provide technical assistance and equipment for a project
commencing in early 1977, to increase maize production in the Province
from 2,500 tons in 1977 to 10,000 tons in 1980;
(e) Protein feeds together with mineral and vitamin premixes
would be imported from Thailand.
Government Plan
6.        Imports of pigs and piglets, which were estimated at 18,000 per year
in 1973, are now only 6,000 and these may be cancelled in 1977 if foreign
exchange is lacking. To meet requirements of the Vientiane population (the
main consumption center), Government has planned:
(a) to set up a pig breeding unit whose immediate obiectives would be:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(i) to import purebred breeding stock (Landrace and Largewhite) and
to establish a selection program to provide improved breeding
stock to multiplication units; and
(ii) to train livestock extension agents and small farmers in pig
production.
The project would be implemented with UNDP assistance. The UNDP
contribution, over a three-year period, has been estimated at
US$0.41 million. The project started in January 1977;
(b) to set up 10 pig multiplication units to produce about 14,000
piglets per annum, corresponding to about 65% of Vientiane's
requirements in 1985 (para. 24). IDA financing has been requested
for these multiplication units.
The Project Pig Component
7.        The project would finance:
(a) ten sow units over a three-year period. Each unit would sell
piglets to farmers associations, cooperatives and smallholders,
State Organizations, individual civil servants and other individuals
for fattening in a typical backyard operation (1 or 2 piglets per
person). Breeding farms (sow units) would be located within 20 to
30 km of Vientiane.
(b) a revolving fund in the National Bank of Laos to provide short-termr
financing for pig fattening by the organizations and individual
smallholders in (a) above.
(c) technical services.
Detailed Features
8.        Sow Unit (120 sows).  Under the project, financing would be provided
to establish 10 breeding units. Each would have about 120 breeding sows and
would produce about 1,450 piglets per year. Piglets (weanlings) would be
sold at about 15 kg for fattening by smallholders or Government employees who
would fatten one or two pigs per year. The main items financed would include
pig buildings and ancillary buildings, installations, and services; vehicles
and equipment; and incremental working capital for one year to cover the
purchase of breeding stock and start up capital for pig feeds, drugs, labor
and other short term inputs. About K 10.5 million (49%) would be for buildings
and construction, K 5.9 million (28%) for incremental working capital, and
about K 3 million (14%) for vehicles and equipment. The total investment per
120 sow unit would be about K 21.4 million (US$106.8 thousand). Investment
per unit would be made in one year and full production would be reached in
the third year. Commitment would be phased over three years 1977-1979.
Model details are in Tables 1-5.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
9.        Revolving Fund:  Under the project financing would be provided to
set up a revolving fund in the National Bank of Laos to extend short-term
loans to small pig producers. Loans would be extended for pig feed only.
Credit would not be provided for purchase of piglets as farmers are accustomed
to direct cash purchase and the demand for piglets for fattening is large.
About 260 kg of feed would be required per pig over the weight range 15 to
90 kg, and therefore the loan amount per pig would be about K 9,400. Indivi-
dual loans would be made to finance feed for one or two pigs over a fattening
period of about 6 to 8 months. At time of slaughter or sale the loan would
be repaid in full with interest charged at 6% per annum. The fund would
finance feed for 50% of project output each year estimated as follows: 872
pigs in 1979; 3,213 pigs in 1980; 6,151 pigs in 1981 and 7,345 pigs from 1982
(at full development). It is judged that the remaining 50% of output would
replace piglets which in the past were imported from Thailand and for which
financing is already available. At full development about 3,700 loans would
be extended each year and the average loan size would be about K 18,800 (US$94).
The amounts shown for this item each year in Table 5 are incremental. A small
pig producer's farm budget is given in Table 6.
10.       Technical Services.  Under the project two expatriLate specialists, a
pig production specialist and a construction engineer would be provided during
periods of three years and five months respectively. The duties, responsibilities,
terms of reference, qualifications and experience required for these posts are
at Appendix 1.
11.       Cost Estimates.  The estimated cost of the pig multiplication component
is K 385 million (US$1.92 million) of which K 294 (US$1.47) is foreign
exchange. Subcomponents and phasing are shown in Table 5. Costs were estimated
at late 1976 prices with a physical contingency of 15% for sow units. Expected
price increases for local and foreign costs are 9% in 1977-79 and 8% for 1980
and thereafter, for civil works, operating costs and technical services and as
follows for vehicles and equipment: 1977-79, 7.5%; 1980 and thereafter 7%.
12.       Input and Product Prices.  Government would review annually prices
of feed, piglets and pig meat and would, after review with IDA, maintain
prices at a level sufficient to yield an annual financial rate of return by
the pig multiplication units of not less than 10% and provide a satisfactory
producer incentive. To ensure the financial viability of the various operations,
Government would set the following initial prices:
Piglet (15 kg)           K 7,200
Pig (kg liveweight)    K   230
Mixed feed (kg)          K    36
Thereafter, the price structure would be reviewed annually by Government
(para. 3.17). For the economic analysis, the following prices corresponding
to import prices at the official exchange rate have been used:
Piglet (15 kg)           K 7,200
Pig (kg liveweight)    K   200



ANNEX 3
Page 5
The rate of return for each pig multiplication unit would be calculated by
relating the operating income for the year in question to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets of each unit in operation at the beginning and
at the end of such year. These terms are defined as follows:
(i)  "value of net fixed assets in operation' is the gross book value of
such assets, less the amount of accumulated depreciation;
(ii) "operating income" is the difference between (A) gross operating
revenue accruing to the unit; and (B) the operating and administra-
tion expenses (including taxes, if any), adequate maintenance and
depreciation but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
Organization and Management
13.       Pig Management Unit.  Overall responsibility would be vested in
the Directorate of Livestock. Main functions of the Directorate comprising
the Director and two Deputy Directors would be:
(a) coordination between the UNDP (breeding) and the IDA
(multiplication) projects;
(b) general planning and organization of the pig multi-
plication units (sow units).
The Directorate would be responsible for the selection of the sites of the units
and for the supervision of the detailed designs and for project implementation.
For these functions it would be assisted by two specialists (para. 10).
14.       Project Managers.  There would be two project managers, one for the
proposed IDA-assisted project and one for the UNDP project, responsible to the
Directorate. The project manager for this project would be responsible for:
(a)  establishment of the 10 pig multiplication units (sow units); and
(b) overall coordination and supervision, including transport of
animals and feed, allocation of vehicles and provision of
veterinary services;
15.       Assistant Managers.  On each unit there would be one assistant
manager (technician level) and seven workers. Each assistant manager would be
responsible for the day-to-day operation of the unit and would keep production
records and accounts. The project manager assisted by an accountant to be
provided by the Directorate of Livestock would maintain overall project
accounts and records.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
ORGANIZATION
Directorate of Livestock /1
Project Manager                                               Project Manager
UNDP Project                                                  Proposed IDA Project
Pig Breeding Unit                 Parent Stock --------->  Pig Multiplication Units (10)
asst.managers (10)
16.       Import of Animals.  The animals required to set up each sow unit
(gilts and young boars) would be imported from Thailand, over a three-year
period, by the Directorate of External Trade which has the monopoly for
imports.  It has been assumed that replacement gilts would be supplied by the
UNDP project.
17.       Training.  Training cf staff of the Provincial Livestock Service in
extension and of farmers would be carried out by the UNDP project. In addition,
within its Technical Cooperation Program (TCP), FAO envisages financing a
project for the training of about 30 veterinary technicians over a four-month
period (project costs have been estimated at   US$40,000).
Meat Consumption and Demand Marketing and Prices
18.       Meat Consumption.  There is no statistical base on which to evaluate
meat consumption in Lao PDR. The only information available is the survey
carried out by the Statistics Division of the former Ministry of Economy and
Planning showing that meat consumption in Vientiane in 1971/72 was about 68 g
per capita per day as indicated in the table below:
g/day
(per capita)
Beef                        15
Buffalo                     23
Pork                        15
Poultry                     15
Total                       68
Eggs (number)              0.3
19.       According to this survey (which did not include foreigners), annual
consumption of red meat (beef and buffalo) and of pork was about the same as
in Bangkok. To meet its requirements, Vientiane had to import large quanti-
ties of meat and live animals, mainly from Thailand (Table 7).
20.       Little and often contradictory information is available on the
present pattern and trends of meat consumption in Laos.  However, for the
country as a whole meat consumption is likely to be lower than in the past,
especially for beef and buffalo, whose herds have been largely decimated
during the war, in particular in the northern provinces.
/1 Director and two deputies.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
21.       Present meat consumption for the city of Vientiane and the corres-
ponding number of animals can be tentatively estimated by:
(a) applying the daily consumption per head mentioned in para. 18
to its population, now estimated at 100,000 inhabitants:
Unit Weight    Number of Animals
(carcass kg)   Per Month   Per Day
Beef      15 x 30 x 100          100             450         15
Buffalo   23 x 30 x 100           150            460         15
Pork:     15 x 30 x 100            60            750         25
Poultry   15 x 30 x 100             0.5       90,000      3,000
(b)  considering the number of animals slaughtered each day at the
abattoir and in the backyards:
Abattoir        Backyards        Total
Pig                       30-35            25-30           55-65
Cattle and buffalo        10-15             2-3            12-18
22.       As livestock imports are now limited to only piglets (about 6,000
p.a.) and day-old chicks (about 12,000-15,000 per week) (Table 8), the rough
estimates given in 21(b) appear reasonable.
23.       Meat Demand.  SEDES (Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement Economi-
que et Social) has estimated the future daily requirements as follows:
1980     1985      1990
-- g/day per person --
Beef                     16.0     21.0      25.0
Buffalo                  21.0     16.0      15.0
Pork                     19.5     28.0      36.5
Poultry                  19.5     28.0      36.5
Total                  76.0     93.0    113.0
Eggs (number)             0.3      0.4       0.4



ANNEX 3
Page 8
24.       Assuming an annual population growth rate of 3%, pork consumption
(and the corresponding number of pigs) for the city of Vientiane would be:
1980     1985      1990
Pork (tons)               781    1,285    1,995
Number of pigs /a    13,000   21,400   33,250
/a  60 kg carcass weight.
25.       Marketing.  The livestock marketing system is still largely tradi-
tional. Farmers sell livestock by the head to traders and middlemen who
provide transportation to the city for resale to butchers. There is a modern
abattoir in Vientiane (built in 1973/74) with a capacity of 200 pigs and 20
head of cattle per day; however, a large percentage of the animals are still
slaughtered in backyards (especially pigs). The slaughtering fee is K 800 per
pig, K 1,000 per head of cattle, K 1,200 per head of buffalo. The animals
killed during the night are sold the next morning on meat markets without
grading or cut selection.
26.       Piglets and day-old chicks imported by the Ministry of External
Trade are sold to state organizations and small operators by the Directorate
of Livestock. About 30% of the day-old chicks are sold to contract growers
who have to sell 80% of their production to Government shops at Government-
fixed prices, the remaining 20% being for home consumption and/or sale on the
unofficial market where prices are much higher.
27.       Prices.  Prices are fixed by Government and, for social reasons,
maintained at low levels. Prices paid to producers and retail prices are
given in the following table:
K/kg           K/kg
Liveweight      Carcass
Cattle and buffalo                 120           250
Pig                                150           250
Chicken                            150           180
Egg                                       15
Day-old chick (layer)                    100
Day-old chick (broiler)                   80



ANNEX 3
Page 9
28.       Actually, prices on the unofficial market are much higher than the
Government-fixed prices; they reflect both the scarcity of animals available
for slaughtering and the unofficial market rate for the kip. Prices on the
Vientiane markets at the end of 1976 are given below:
K
Pork (cutlet)                  1,200-1,400/kg
Beef (deboned)                     1,500/kg
Egg                                45 each
Broiler (liveweight)         400/kg each or per kg
29.       For comparison, prices in Burma and Thailand are given in Table 9.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig 14ultiplication Component
Herd Projection - 120-sow Unit
---------- End of Year ---------
1              2             3-20
------------- units ------------
Herd Composition
Sows and replacements                   80              120              120
Boars                                     6               6                6
Pigs (0-8 weeks)                          -             250              250
Gilts                                    68              13               13
Total pigs                          154              389             389
Total births                          -            1,296           1,728
Purchases
Gilts                                   162              28               43
Boars                                     6               -                3
Total purchases                     168               28              46
Moortality
Sows                                      1               3               3
Boars                                     -               -
Pigs (0-8 weeks)                         -              174             259
Total mortality                       1              177             262
Sales
Culled sows                             13               40              40
Culled boars                             -                -               3
Weanlings (>8 weeks)                     -              872           1,469
Total sales                          13             912            1,512
Technical Coefficients
Conception rate (%)                     80               80              80
Number born/farrowing                    -                9               9
Average number of
farrowings/female in
breeding herd                          -             1.6              1.6
Sow culling rate/year (%)-                               33              33
Boar culling rate/year (%)               -               50              50
Mortality (%)
Sows                                 2.5             2.5             2.5
Boars                                  -               1                1
Pigs (0-8 weeks)                                      15               15



ANNEX 3
Table 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEI40CRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig Multiplication Component
Investment Table - 120-sow Unit
(K'000)
No. of                   Foreign
Unit        Unit cost       units         Cost        exchange
Buildings and Construction
Site preparation and fencing             -                -            -            300           80
Farrowing pen                          6 sq m            36           48          1,728           80
Gestation house                          sq m              6         168          1,008           80
Boar house                               sq m             6           30            180           80
Mating house                             sq m              6          12             72           80
Gilt house                               sq m             6           90            540           80
Culled sow house and spare pens          sq m             6           46            276           80
Feed store                               sq m             6          100            600           80
Office                                   sq m            20           24            480           80
Houses                                70 sq m         1,400            2         2,800            80
Workshop                                 sq m              6          30            180           80
General store                            sq m            16           10            160          80
Drainage and water supply                                 -            -          1,000          80
Power supply (electric)                                   -            -         1,200           80
Subtotal                                                                     10,524
Equipmnent
Scales and troughs                                        -            -            800         100
Veterinary equipment                                      -            -           300          100
Subtotal                                                                      1,100
Vehicles /a                                                                         1,860         100
Incremental working capital /b                                                     5,933           9u
Subtotal                                                                    19,417          8S
Physical contingencv 157                                                           2,912
Total                                                                        '2,329          8(
/a  10% of total for 10 units - 1 x 6-ton truck  = K  3,000
2 x 3-ton truck  = K  4,000
2 x 1-ton pickup = K 2,400
10 motorcycles   = K  1,200
2 tractors         = K  8,000
Total            K 18,b00
b  From Annex 3, Table 3.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
LAO PEOPLE'S DEŽMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Pig Multiplication Component
Sales and Operating Expense Projection - 120-sow Unit
(K'000)
-------------- Year ---------…-____
1                2              3-20
Sales
Culled sows /a                        523             1,610            1,610
Culled boars /b                         -                 -              138
Weanlings ic                            -             6,278           10,577
Subtotal                           523            7,888           12,325
Operating Expenses
Feed /d                             1,030             5,489           5,723
Labor /e                              336               672              672
Services /f                           120               240              240
Transport /                           200               400              400
Veterinary services /h                 56               274              286
Miscellaneous /i                        10               55               57
Subtotal                         1,752             7,130           7,378
Livestock - gilts jj                  4,536               560              860
- boars i                     168                -               60
Subtotal                         4,704               560             920
Total                            6,456             7,690           8,298
Net income /k                         (5,933)             198            4,027
/a  Liveweight 175 kg/sow; price K 230/kg.
/b  Liveweight 200 kg/boar; price K 230/kg.
/c  Liveweight 15 kg/pig; price K 480/kg.
/d  Sows or boars - 1,100 kg/head/year; gilts - 100 kg/head; weanlings
(0-8 weeks) - 10 kg/head. Feed price K 36/kg.
/e  Manager, watchman and 6 workers; average monthly salary of team
K 56,000.
/f  Electricity, water, lighting.
/g  Contribution to cost of vehicle fleet.
/h  Mledicines, vaccines and drugs; 5/O of feed costs.
/i  1% of feed costs.
/j  Year 1 - K 28,000/head; year 2-20 - K 20,000/head.
/k  Deficit for year 1 represents incremental working capital and _s
financed as part of the investnent. See Annex 3, Table 2.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig _ultiplication Component
Cash Flow Projection - 120-sow Unit
(K'000)
…__------------- Year ---------------
1      2        3     4-19      20
A.  Cash Inflow
1.  Revenues                               523  7,888  12,325  12,325  12,325
2.  Government grant /a                 22,329       -        -       -        -
3.  Government short-term loan /b            -  1,923         -       -        -
4.  Sale value of herd                       -       -        -       -   6,629
5   Total inflow                        22,852  9,811  12,325  12,325  18,954
B.  Cash Outflow
1.  Investments                         16,396       -        -       -        -
2.  Operating expenses                   6,456  7,690   8,298   8,298   8,298
3.  Interest on short-term loan /c           -       -      116        -       -
4.  Loan repayment                           -       -   1,923         -       -
5.  Total outflow                       22,852  7,690  10,337   8,298   8,298
Cash flow                                           -  2,121   1,988   4,027  10,656
Cash flow for financial rate of return /d  22,852    198   4.027   4 027  10,656
Financial Rate of Return:  15.5%
Sensitivity Tests
Investment increased by 10% - Rate of Return 14%
Benefits decreased by 10%   - Rate of Return 10%
/a To cover investment cost and incremental working capital requirements plus
physical contingencies in year 1 (see Annex 3, Table 2).
/b 25% of operating costs; short-term loan provided by Government at 6% interest.
/c 6%.
/d A.1 - (B.1 + B.2) + A.4.



AINEX 3
Table 5
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig Multiplication Component
Phasing of Investments
(K'000)
Investment                              1978    1979       1980      1981    1982    Total
Sow Units (120 sows/unit) /a
Civil works                          21,048   42,096   42,096          -        -  105,240
Equipment and vehicles                5,920   11,840   11,840          -        -   29,600
Incremental working capital          11,866   23,732   23,732          -        -   59,330
Subtotal                         38,834   77         77,668 7-              -  194,170
Pig Fattening
Revolving fund (feed)                     -    5,87   14,461  18150            7,377   45,375
Technical Services                     12>,000   12,000   12,000         -        -   36,000
Base costs                             50,834   95,055  104,129  18,150   7,377  275,545
Physical contingencies /b               5,825   11,650   11,650          -        -   29,125
Price contingencies                     7,784   25,032   36,921   7,258   3,212   80,207
Total                            64,443   31,737  152,700  25,408  10,589  384,877
/a  Phasing of units:  1978 - 2 units, 1979 - 4 units, 1980 - 4 units.
/b  15%, app]ied only to Sow Unit.



ANNEX 3
Table 6
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPNIENT PROJECT
Pig Mlultiplication Component
Farm Budget for Small Pig Producer
Year 1           Year 2-20
K                 K
Assumptions - Farmer buys two weanlings (15 kg each) and sells
two finished pigs the following year. Housed in
homemade shelter built by farmer costing K 8,000.
Feed is predominantly purchased pig feed, supple-
mented with household leftovers and garden
surpluses.
Sales
2 finished pigs /a                        -              41,400
Housing Expenses                        8,000                    -
Operating Expenses
Purchase 2 weanlings /b              14,400               14,400
Feed /c                              18,720               18,720
Veterinary /d                           540                  540
Total                            41,660               33,660
Net benefit                           (41,660)               7,740
Financial Rate of Return le - 18%
/a  90 kg/head at 230 K/kg.
/b  K 7,200/head; 15 kg liveweight.
/c  260 kg/head at K 36/kg; household waste also used.
Id  2.5% of purchased feed cost.
/e  Cash flow for financial rate of return:  Year 1, (K 4.1,660);
Year 2-19, K 7,740; Year 20, K 22,140.



ANNEX 3
Table 7
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig Multiplication Component
Recorded (Official) Imports, 1973
Value
Quantity      (K millions)
Live animals (000 head)
Cattle                                    10.6              139.9
Buffalo                                   61.3              256.5
Pigs                                      17.3              259.6
Poultry                                  122.8               21.6
Subtotal                                               677.6
Meat (tons)
Fresh, chilled and frozen meat:
beef                  10.6              10.5
pork                   9.9               6.1
poultry               33.3              10.0
mutton                 3.0               3.0
Other (offal, delicatessen products)   20.1                  16.6
Canned products                          542.2              406.2
Subtotal                                               452.4
Dairy Products
Milk evaporated or condensed
(in cases)                            94,495             251.4
Powdered milk (in cases)                14,930               72.3
Fresh milk (in cases)                    4,343                1.6
Butter, cheese, cream (in tons)             41               40.4
Subtotal                                               355.7
Eggs (in tons)                            3.6                 1.2
Total                                                1,486.9



ANNEX 3
Table 8
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig Multiplication Component
Imports for the Livestock Sector
(January 1 - September 30, 1976 Period)
Value
Quantities          (US$)
Day-old chicks (number)                     170,300          51,635
Piglets (number) /a                           4,500        163,125
Concentrates (30-kg bags)                    14,415         137,342
Medicines (boxes)                            19,708          15,464
Equipment for poultry (number)                3,800           6,847
/a  Mission estimate on the basis of 6,000 p.a. according to the
agreement with Thailand.
Source: Directorate of External Trade.



ANNEX 3
Table 9
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig Multiplication Component
Price Comparison in Three Asian Countries
Laos /a          Thailand      Burma
Present  Proposed   (North-East)
…----------------   US$…
Mixed feed (kg)               0.15       0.18          0.16          0.15
Piglet (head) /b                25         35            35        30-40
Pig (kg liveweight)           0.75       1.15          0.90         1.11
Pork (kg carcass average)    1.25        1.90          1.60         1.90
/a  Kips converted into dollars at the official exchange rate of K 200
to UJS$1.
/b Approximate liveweight 15 kg.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
LAO PEOPLES DEMIOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig Multiplication Component
Technical Services - Terms of Reference
Pig Production Specialist: would assist the Project MIanager in executing the
project. He would have the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) to recommend major policy and procedural matters with respect to the
pig component of the project;
(b) to assist in the execution of the pig component;
(c) to recommend the employment and assist in the selection of technicians
and other staff needed to carry out the project;
(d) to advise the project manager on prescribing duties and responsibili-
ties for all personnel (technicians, staff .and workers) employed on
the pig component;
(e) to assist in the training of technical and managerial staff in techni-
cal and economic aspects of pig production;
(f)  to assist in establishing accounting and recording procedures for each
unit and for the project as a whole which would provide a sound physi-
cal, biological and financial data base for management decisions and
for project monitoring and evaluation;
(g) to provide, inter alia, guidance on design and specifications of pig
buildings, ancilliary buildings and equipment used therein (in coopera-
tion with the Construction Engineer); advising on pig production and
management techniques, including feed formulation and home mixing (if
appropriate), use of antibiotics, vaccines and veterinary medicines,
mating, castration, hygiene, feeding methods and scale of feeding for
different categories of stock.
(h) to provide such supervision and technical assistance as needed to
ensure successful completion of the pig component; and
(i)  to assist where possible with the implementation of the smallholder
fattening component.
(j) to assist in project procurement and in supervision of construction
of the units in the absence of the Construction Engineer.
Qualifications:  The pig production specialist should have a degree in General
Agriculture or allied sciences such as Animal or Pig Husbandry or Animal Science.
He should have at least five years experience in pig work either as a research
worker, extension officer, commercial adviser or producer. Desirable but not



ANNEX 3
Appendix i
Page 2
essential would be experience of pig production under tropica'l and/or subtropicai
conditions and experience of pig production in a developing country. A knowledge
of French would also be desirable.
Construction or Civil Engineer: would assist the Project Manager in executing
the project. He would have the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) in association with the Pig Production Specialist, draw up plans,
designs and specifications for the pig buildings, auxilliary buildings
and services under the project;
(b) in the case of all contract works prepare contract bid documents
including all specifications and conditions;
(c) evaluate all bids and make recommendations to the Project Manager;
(d) supervise the execution of all contracts including advising the
Project Manager on making or withholding payments; certifying
payments after ensuring that the standard and quality of work is in
contract compliance;
(e) if and when construction through force account or contract is not
feasible, carry out works by direct account after consultation with
the Project Manager and ensure that all actions necessary to execute
the project are taken (e.g. employ tradesmen, workers, and hire
machinery and equipment);
(f)  play an active and imaginative role in solving procurement, supply and
implementation problems and keep the Project Manager fuily briefed at
all times;
(g) assist the Project Manager or the accountant in drawing up a suitable
accounting and recording system that clearly identifies the allocation
of all funds under the project.
Qualifications: The construction engineer should have a degree in civil engi-
neering or building construction. He should have at least five years experience
as a working engineer in direct contact with construction work and should have
experience in preparing contract documents and evaluating bids. Desirable but
not essential would be experience with buildings for agriculture, experience in
a tropical or subtropical climate and/or experience in a developing country. A
knowledge of French would also be desirable.



ANNEX 4
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Foreign                          Foreign
Local   exchange       Total     Local   exchange   Total
---------- K'000 ---------       -------- US$'000 -------
A. SSmall Irrigation Works
Equipment & vehicles              -    374,280    374,280          -    1,871.4   1,871.4
Survey & design               6,560      15,300      21,860      32.8       76.5      109.3
Civil works                 330,680    118,960    449,640  1,653.4         594.8   2,248.2
Technical assistance              -    110,000    110,000          -       550.0      550.0
Construction, O&M            50,580    225,680    276,260    252.9   1,128.4   1,381.3
Physical contingencies       51,100      40,910      92,010    255.5       204.5      460.0
Price contingencies         129,690    235,980    365,670    648.5   1,179.9   1,828.4
Subtotal A             568,610  1,121,110  1,689,720  2,843.0   5,605.6   8,448.6
B. Rice Research Station
Equipment, vehicles &
civil works                 5,500      44,600      50,100      27.5      223.0     250.5
Technical assistance              -    132,000    132,000          -       660.0      660.0
Revolving fund
(fertilizers)                   -      38,600      38,600        -      193.0      193.0
Operating costs              20,300       5,800      26,100    101.5        29.0      130.5
Physical contingencies            -       5,850       5,850        -        29.3       29.3
Price contingencies           4,300      43,220      47,520      21.5      216.1      237.6
Subtotal B               30,100    270,070    300,170    150.5   1,350.4   1,500.9
C. Pig MIultiplication
Equipment, vehicles &
civil works                26,960    107,880    134,840    134.8         539.4      674.2
Incremental working
capital                     7,455      44,655      52,110      37.3      223.3      260.6
Technical assistance              -      36,000      36,000        -       180.0      180.0
Revolving fund (feed)         9,075      36,300      45,375      45.4      181.5      226.9
Operating costs               3,475       3,745       7,220      17.4       18.7       36.1
Physical contingencies        5,475      23,650      29,125      27.4      118.3      145.6
Price contingencies          38,357      41,850      80,207    191.7       209.3      401.0
Subtotal C               90,797    294,080    384.877    454.0   1,470.4   1,924.4
Total                   689,507  1,685,260  2,374,767  3,447.5   8,426.4  11,873.9



ANNEX 5
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Semi-Annual Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
IDA fiscal year and                       Semester            Accumulated
semester                        disbursement         disbursements
FY78
Ist
2nd                                       300                    300
FY79
lst                                     1,400                  1,700
2nd                                     1,100                  2,800
FY80
Ist                                     1,400                  4,200
2nd                                     1,100                  5,300
FY81
Ist                                       500                  5,800
2nd                                     1,000                  6,800
FY82
lst                                       600                  7,400
2nd                                       800                  8,200



ANNEX 5
Page 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Special Disbursement Account
List of Equipment and Supplies
Item                           Quantity                 Total Cost
(US$)
Topographical Survey Teams (3)
Theodolites                               3                       13,500
Level                                     3                        3,930
Staves                                   12                       3,120
Steel tapes                               6                          150
Range poles                              18                          108
Plumbs                                   12                           60
Chaining pins                            24                           72
Penta prism squares                       6                          360
Hammers                                   6                           60
Saws                                      6                          120
Hand axes                                 6                          150
Subtotal                                                    21,630
Topographical Mapping Teams (2)
Engineers scales                          2                           20
Protractors                               2                           10
Drafting machines                         2                          600
Rotungs                                   2                          160
Compasses                                 2                          160
Subtotal                                                       950
Soil Exploration Teams (1)
Hand auger                                1                          30
Standard penetration kit                  1                          60
Density apparatus                         1                          20
Pocket penetrometer                       3                          30
Subtotal                                                       140



AMNEX 5
Page 3
Item                           Quantity                Total Cost
(US$)
Soil Field Test Teams (1)
Balances                                 3                         300
Shrinkage limit sets                     1                         225
Set of sieves                            1                         100
Hydrometer                                1                         15
Thermometer                               1                          5
Chronometer                               1                         20
Compactors device set                    1                         150
Laboratory equipment set                  1                         50
Subtotal                                                      865
Socio-Economic Team (3)
Calculators                              3                         150
Typewvriters                             3                         900
Subtotal                                                    L 050
Hydrological Team (1)
Current meters                           3                       2,400
Evaporation pans                        30                       1,500
Calculator                               1                          50
Subtotal                                                   3_950
Design Teams (3)
Miscellaneous design equipment                                  10,900
Subtotal                                                  10,900
Administrative Teams (1)
Typewriters                              2                       1,300
Calculator                                1                         50
Subtotal                                                    1,350



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Item                           Quantit                  Total Cost
(US$)
Finance and Accounting Teams (1)
Calculators                               2                       1,400
Typewriters                               5                          250
Subtotal                                                     1,650
Procurement and Supply Teams (1)
Typewriters                               2                        1,400
Calculator                                4                          200
Subtotal                                                     1,600
To be distributed between all teams
Vehicles
Trucks, pickup                          6                       45,000
Motorcycles, 100 cc                     3                        1,800
Sundry equipment                                                   2,000
Subtotal                                                     48,800
Subtotal all equipment                                       92,885
Spare parts for vehicles                                           7,115
Total                                                      -100, 00



ANNEX 6
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEIIOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Paddy Production and Farm Budgets
Present Cropping Pattern
1.        Less than about 5% of the 102,000 ha lowland paddy soils in Vientiane
Province is irrigated. Wet rice cultivation is therefore rainfed and dependent
on wet. season rainfall. Due to the severity of the dry season, with the
exception of a few small areas, all crop cultivation is restricted to the five
month wet season.
2.        Wet season rainfed rice is grown between late May and late October.
Transplanting time is about eight weeks.  There is an adequate supply of buffa-
loes for draft animal purposes in Vientiane Province and sufficient agricultural
labor is available. Cultivation is not mechanized and agricultural practices
are traditional in nature.
3.        Present and potential paddy yields are discussed in Annex 1, paras. 20
and 21.
Future Cropping Patterns and Yields
4.         In the absence of the project there would be no increase in yield in
the rainfed area. Due to the lack of reliability in the wet season rainfall
pattern, farmers are not prepared to risk expenditure on improved seeds,
fertiliser and other material inputs. In irrigated areas yields are estimated
to increase from the present average level of 1.2 tons paddy/ha as detailed
below, as a result of controlled water supply, use of improved varieties,
fertilisers and pesticides (Annex 1, para. 21). The expected increases in
yield per hectare in irrigated areas are:
Estimated Paddy Yields (tons/ha)
Witho ut                              With Project
project           Year 1                Year 2              Year 3
Wet      Dry         Wet       Dry         Wet       Dry
season   season      season   season       season   season
Without
agronomic       1.2          1.5        -          1.7         -         1.7       -
package
IJith
agronomic        -           1.7       2.7         2.0       3.0        2.5       3.5
package



AINNEX 6
Page 2
5.        The improved road network under the project would improve access to
farms, facilitating extension work and operation and maintenance.
6.        Harvesting is by sickle and threshing is carried out manually. The
labor supply is ample for the increased yields produced under the project.
Threshed paddy is currently sun or air-dried in the farmer's backyard. Exist-
ing rice mills and hullers run by private individuals operate well under
capacity and are sufficient to cope with the increased yields.
7.        In view of the rice deficit in the province there should be no
difficulty in marketing the incremental production of the project.
Farm Budgets
8.        Per hectare production costs for rainfed rice at present and irri-
gated rice in future, with and without the project, are presented in Table 1.
Physical input assumptions and unit prices are given in Table 2. These data
were collected during appraisal and provided by the Directorates of Agriculture
and Irrigation.
9.        Detailed data on monthly labor requirements for areas to be irrigated
under the project are not available, but in view of the restriction of this
first project to less than 10% of the lowland paddy land in Vientiane Province
and the substantial under employment in the remaining areas, there should be no
problem in provision of adequate agricultural labor.
10.       Table 3 provides a per hectare budget for rice farms and is the basis
for the budget for a 1.5 hectare rice farm in Table 4. These tables use pro-
jected prices for inputs and farm gate values for rice. The 1.5 hectare model
was selected as representing the average lowland paddy operation in Vientiane
Province. Budgets are presented for owner operators on both gravity and pump-
ing schemes. Agricultural taxes have been calculated according to Government
regulations. Interest charges on credit for inputs are relatively low (6% p.a.
for borrowing over a 6-12 month period) and have not been included. Pumping
scheme charges for pump operating costs would be paid in part by farmers
benefitting from the service and have been allocated one third to the wet
season and two thirds to the dry season.
11.       On gravity schemes with the agronomic package net farm incomes
from rice would improve from $175 to $415 p.a. with farmers who double crop.
IJithout the agronomic package incomes would improve from $175 to $245. On
pumping schemes occupying about 15% of the project area the improvement
would be from $175 to $320. Due to absence of data the value of other
farm income from fruit trees, vegetables and livestock is unknown. Therefore
the contribution of the above to total farm income cannot be fully assessed.
However, in that net farm incomes in the project area are estimated at
US$270 per family these projected increases in net rice incomes would make
an important contribution to total farm incomes.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Crop Production Costs
Present and Future                         Future With Project
Without Project            Wet season irrigated            Dry season irrigated
Wet season rainfed    No agronomic  With agronomic             With agronomic
package        package                  package
---------- US$/ha      …
Cash inputs($/ha)
Seed (30 kg/ha)             3.75                 3.75            3,75                      3.75
Fertilizers                  -                    -             12.00                    67.00
Insecticides                 -                    -              7.50                     15.00
Tools                       3.00                 3.00            3.00                      3.00
Animals                    10.00                10.00           10.00                     10.00
Interest                     -                    _               _
Total cash inputs          16.75                16.75           36.25                    98.75
Labor inputs
(man days/ha)
H :>
Incremental labor                                                2.33                    23.33                   z
(D >
In the Annex 6 tables, it is assumed that, under the project, 30% of the area irrigated will be
farmed through the application of the agronomic package including fertilizers and insecticides.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs and Unit Prices
Wet season            Dry season
Inputs                   Units      Rainfed    Irrigated    Irrigated          Units    Unit price/Input
-------------- Us$ ---------------                  ------US$ -----
Present and future
without project
Seed                     kg/ha         30             -              -         $/kg           0.125
Tools /a                                                                       $/ha           3.00
Animals /a                                                                     $/ha          10.00
Future with project
Seed                     kg/ha         30            30             30         $/kg           0.125
Fertilizers
- urea                 kg/ha          -            80            100         $/kg          0.15
- ammonium
phosphate (16-20)  kg/ha           -              -           200          $/kg          0.26
Insecticides            application   -               1              2    $/application       7.50
Tools /a                                -             -                        $/ha           3.00                   >
Animals /a                              -             -                        $/ha          10.00                oD
/a  Costs estimated on a per hectare basis.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Crop Budgets
Present and Future                    Future with Project
without Project         Wet season irrigated        Dry season irrigated
Wet season         No agronomic  With agronomic    With agronomic
Rainfed             package        package            package
Yield of paddy (ton/ha)           1.2                  1.7            2.5                 3.5
Farmgate price ($/ton)          125.00               125.00         125.00             125.00
Gross value of production
($/ton)                      150.00                212.50         312.50             437.50
Production costs, exclu-
ding labor ($/ha)              16.75                16.75          36.25              98.75
Net value of production
without accounting for
labor ($/ha)                 133.25                195.75         276.25             338.75
Fs>
CD X
w ci



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget for 1.5 ha Farm
Gravity Scheme                              Pumping Scheme
Future             Future with Project                 |       Future with Project
without  Wet season   Wet season  Dry season  Total |  Wet season  Dry season  Total
Pro _et  (irrigation  (with irrigation and             |       (with irrigation and
only)       agronomie package)            |         agronomic package)
Total paddy cropped
area (ha)                   1.5       1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5   I        1.5        1.5        1.5
Cropping irtensity (%)      100       100        100          30        130     I      100         50        150
Total paddy cropped area      1.5       1.5        1.5         0.45       1.95  |        1.5        0.75       2.25
Total production (tons)       1.80      2.55       3.75        1.15       4.90  |        3.75       1.75       5.50
Gross value of produc-
tion ($)                  225.00   318.75      468.75      149.50    618.25  |      468.75      218.75    687.50
Production costs exclu-
ding labor ($)             25.12    25.12       54.38       44.43      98.81  |      54.38       74.05    128.43
Net value of production($) 199.88   293.63       414.38      105.07    519.45  |      414.38      144.07    558.45
Agricultural tax ($)         23.75    48.75      118.12         -       118.12  |      118.12        -       118.12
Pumping scheme charges ($)      -        -           -          -          -    |      55.00      110.00    165.00
Net crop income ($)          176.13  244.88      296.26      119.87    416.13  I       256.26      64.70    320.96   ' '



I,AU 'PE'PLfE S DJEr'iUCR'flC KEPtUBL:I i
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Rent and Cost Recovery /a
(US$)
1                  2             3            4             5            6                7             8           9
1.0 ha          Incremental  Incremental  Management                   Incremental    Incremental        Rent        Cost
model          net family   family labor & uncertainty  Project    tax assess-           water        recovery   recovery
income /b       cost /c   allowance /d   rent /e          ment /f       charges       index /g  index /h
_  () …
A. Gravity scheme
(i) irrigation
& agron. pack  215             15          54            146            65             -              45          100
(ii) irrigation
only             63             8          16             39            25             -              64           42
B. Pumping scheme
(i) diesel
pumps           240            25          60            155            65            35/i            64           40
(ii) electric
pumps           240            25          60            155            65            40Q/            68           63
/a All values are in late 1976 constant prices.
/b From Annex 6, Table 4, converted from 1.5 ha farm to per hectare basis.
/c Valued at an estimated market wage of K 30 per day.
/d Valued at 25% of incremental income (Column 2).
/e  Equals Col. (2)   (Col. 3 t Col. 4)
/f  Farm tax as in Annex 7, Appendix 1 Scheduile and Farm Budgets (Annex 6  Tables 1-6).
/g Equals Col. (6) + Col. (7) divided by Col. (5).
/h Equals Col. (6) + Col. (7) divided by incremental O&M costs and capital costs in
Annex 8, p. 2, amortized over 20 years at 10% interest.
/i Assuming water change equal to one third of cost of fuel and maintenance of pumps and
diesel engines.
/i  Assuming water change equal to 100% of cost of power and maintenance of pumps and electrie
motors.
?C



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Tax Assessment /1
1.        The amount of tax is determined according to the following
schedule:
Class            Taxable Product (kg paddy)             Tax Rate %
I                       1  -    500                        8
Il                     501  -  1,000                       12
III                   1,000  -  1,500                       16
IV                   1,501  -  2,000                       20
V                   2,000  -  2,500                       25
VI                   2,501  -  above                       30
2.  Family tax exemption amounts to 100 kg per person.
/1 Source: State Decree on Agricultural Taxes Regulations, September 29,
1976.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
ACkRICT LTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smali Irrigation and Drainage Works Component
LcofoTic Analysis
1.        The incremental net values of production (see table on page 2) have
been estimated for the various schemes proposed under this project at full
production (Tables 2-6).
2,        Economic rates of return have been calculated for all schemes with
Lne foiloweig assumptions:
(a)  Exchange rate.  The foreign exchange component of costs was
estimated at appraisal in US dollars. There was therefore no
need to shadow price, For local currency costs the analysis was
performed by shadow pricing costs so to bring them to more realistic
values, The exchange rates used in this analysis were:
(i) K i,000/US$1 in 1978 and 1979;
(ii) K 750/US$1 from 1980 onwards.
(b)  Investment costs (excluding price contingencies) were used as given
in Annex 1, Table 14 but adjusted with the above shadow exchange
rates.
(c) Area cropped, yields and incremental production are given in
Tables 2-6.
(d)  Paddy price.  The current price of K 25/kg (US$0.125/kg), in line
with Ba.nk proiected prices, has been used.
(e)  Development period.  According to the project implementation schedule,
all works would be coripleted by 1982.   Beginning with the first crop
grown under improved conditions, farmers are estimated to achieve the
projected yield levels over three years.
The economic rates of return of new irrigation schemes would be:
Scheme                           Rate of Return
Houei Son (gravity)                    40%
Ban Cheng (pump irrigation)            12%



Total
Total                         Operation        Incremental       Incremental
Investment       Production         and          Net Value of    Net Value of
Type of Scheme                   Costs /a         Costs       Maintenance        Production       Production for
-- US$'000 -------                                all Schemes
No. of   Name of   Area of   (total)             (per scheme)  (per scheme)   (per scheme)           (total)
Code  Schemes  Scheme    Scheme
A         9    Ilouei Son  300 ha        1,930              23.4           3.0             45.8              412
B         4    Ban Cheng  300 ha         1,878              33.9          36.4             28.1              112
C        16    Ban Nakeo  100 ha         1,131               7.8           1.0             15.3              244
D        16    Ban Ylai    120 ha          965               9.3           1.2             18.3              293
E         3    Pak Pung   300 ha           413              23.4           3.0             45.8              137
/a Refer to para. 2. Local costs were shadow priced.
(D k]
x
oo,
<D0



ANNEX 8
Page 3
3.        The economic rate of return for all the parts of the irrigation
conponent of this proiect would be about 29% (Table 1).
4.        The main benefit from this component of the project would be the
increase in paddy production estimated at 15,736 tons per year (9,500 tons
rice) at full development (year 8 onwards) by some 5,500 small farmers.  This
incremental production reDresents about 30% of the annual deficit of Vientiane
Province estimated at 30,000 tons of rice at present met only by imports from
Thailand.
5.        The irrigation component of the project would result in net foreign
exchange savings of about US$1.2 million a year at full development (from
Year 8 onwards) assuming that rice at that time (1985) is valued at US$200
per ton (constant 1976 prices). The project incremental imports of ferti-
lizers and insecticides would be about US$0.4 million; the project incremen-
tal output would be approximately US$2.0 million.
6.        In addition, through the strengthening of the Directorate of Irriga-
tion and the Vientiane Provincial Irrigation Service, the pro4ect would be an
essential precursor to irrigation development in other provinces where the
construction of minor dams or simple diversion weirs would make a significant
contribution to agriculture.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN /a
Small Irrigation and Drainage Works
Investment                        Incremental            Incremental
Year       Cost          O & M          Production Costs          Net Value
… -----    US$000 -----…--… -
1     1,794.5           16.8                 94.2                  132.0
2       396.0          33.6                 188.5                  325.5
3       451.0          85.6                 302.3                  573.4
4       546.6         134.7                 399.4                  805.5
5       677.2         216.9                 504.8                1,012.8
6         -                                                      1 134.2
7         -                                                      1,199.4
8         _
10         -
12 _
13 _
14         _
15         _
16         _
17       150              '                     '
18       150              '                     '
19       300              '
20         -           216.9                 504.8                1,199.4
Economie Rate of Return = 29%.
Sensitivity tests.
- If investment costs increase by 15%, then ERR = 25%.
- If investment costs increase by 20%, then ERR = 24%.
- If incremental net value decreases by 10%, then ERR = 26%.
- If incremental gross value decreases by 20%, then ERR = 23%.
/a Figures have been shadow priced. In Annex 1, Table 14 figures are
actual.



LAU PEOPLES DEMUCRATl REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REIIABILITATIUN AND DEVELUPMENT PROUI:T.CT
Incremental Net Value of Prodtiction per ScIeome
Type:  Ilotuei Son (A)              Without                                            WithI Project         ___      ___       ___
(300 ha)                    Project               Year 1 ___                      Year 2                     __  _Year 3
WS       DS      Total         WS       DS       Total          WS        DS      Total
Area                                    300          300       90      390          300       90        390          300       90       390
Yield (tons/ha)
- without fertilizer (70%)            1.2         1.5        -        -           1.7      --                     1.7        -          -
- with fertilizer (30%)               -           1.7      2.8        -           2.0      3.0        -           2.5      3.5         -
Production of paddy (tons)              360         468       252      720          537      270        807         582       315       897
Cross Value (US$)                   45,000       58,500  31,500  90,000         67,125  33,750   100,875         72,750  39,3/5   112,125
Production Costs
- seeds (30 kg/ha - $3.75/ha)  1,125            1,125      338    1,463        1,125       338     1,463        1,125      338      1,463
- tools ($3/ha)                      900          900      270   1,170           900       270     1,170          900      270      1,170
- draft animais ($10/ha)           3,000        3,000      900   3,900         3,000       900     3,900        3,000      900      3,900
- fertilizer                         -          1,080   6,030    7,110         1,080   6,030       7,110        1,080   6,030       7,110
- insecticides                                    675    1,350   2,025           675   1,350       2,025          675    1,350     2,025
- incremental labor                  -            700   7,000    7,700            700   7,000      7,700          700   7,000       7,700
Subtotal (US$)                5         7480   5,888  23,368           7,480   15,888   23368           7480   15,888    3,368
()p craL tig & m loi. ionc c (aJSS)     -         2 300       700    3y00(        2,3()0     700     3,000        2,300       700     3,)00
Net value of production (US$)   39,975           48,720   14,912  63,632        57,345   17,162    74,507        62,970  22,787    85,757
Incremeiital net value (US5$)                                      23,657                           34,532                           45,782
WS = wet season; I)S = dry season
N rri
o X



LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Net Value of Production per Scheme
Type:  Ban Cheng (B)               Without                                            With Project
(300 ha punping scheme)  Project                 Year 1                          Year 2                         Year 3
WS       DS      Total        WS        DS       Total        WS         DS      Total
Area                                   300         300       150      450         300       150       450         300       150       450
Yield (tons/ha)
- without fertilizer (70%)           1.2         1.5       -        -           1.7       -         -           1.7       -          -
- with fertilizer (30%)               -          1.7      2.8       -           2.0      3.0        -           2.5      3.5         -
Production of paddy (tons)             360         468      420       888         537      450        987         582      525      1,107
Gross Value (US$)                   45,000      58,500  52,500 111,000         67,125  56,250  123,375         72,750  65,625  138,375
Production Costs
- seeds (30 kg/ha - $3.75/ha)   1,125          1,125      562   1,687         1,125      562     1,687        1,125      562     1,687
- tools ($3/ha)                     900          900      450   1,350           900      450     1,350          900      450     1,350
- draft animals ($10/ha)          3,000        3,000    1,500   4,500         3,000   1,500      4,500        3,000    1,500     4,500
- fertilizer                        -          1,080  10,050  11,130          1,080  10,050   11,130          1,080  10,050   11,130
- insecticides                                   675   2,250   2,925            675   2,250      2,925          675   2,250      2,925
- incremental labor                 -            700  11,600  12,300            700  11,600    12,300           700  11,600    12,300
Subtotal (US$)            5,025        7,480  26,412  33,892           ,480   26,412        33,892    7,480  26,412   33 892
Operating & maintenance (US$)          -        23,700  12,730  36,430         23,700  12,730   36,430         23,700  12,730   36,430
Net value of production (US$)   39,975          27,320  13,358  40,678         35,945  17,108   53,053         41,570  26,483   68,053
Incremental net value (US$)                                          703                          13,078                          28,078
WS = wet season; DS = dry season                                                                                                     o z
D cc



LAO PEOPLES UEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Net Value of Production per Scheme
Type:  Ban Nakeo (C)                Without                                           With Project                            _
(100 ha)                   Project               Year 1                          Year 2                         Year 3
WS       DS      Total        WS       US        Total        WS        DS       Total
Area                                   100          100       30      130         100        30       130          100       30       130
Yield (tons/ha)
- without fertilizer (70%)           1.2         1.5       _        -           1.7       -         -           1.7       -         -
- with fertilizer (30%)               -          1.7      2.8       -           2.0      3.0       -           2.5      3.5        -
Production of paddy (tons)             120          156       84      240         179       90       269         194      105        299
Gross Value (US$)                   15,000      19,500  10,500  30,000         22,375  11,250  33,625         24,250  13,125   37,375
Production Costs
- seeds (30 kg/ha)                   375         375      113      488          375      115      490          375      115       490
- tuels ($3/ha)                      300         300       90      390          300       90      390          300       90       390
- draft animals ($10|ha)           1,000       1,000      300   1,300         1,G00      300   1,300         1,000      300     1,300
- fertilizer                         -           360   2,010   2,370            360   2,010   2,370            360   2,010    2,370
- insecticides                       -           225      450      675          225      450      675          225      450       675
- incremental labor                 -            233   2,330   2,563            233   2,330   2,563            233   2,330    2,563
Subtotal         1,675                 2,493      2      7,786        2,493   5,293   7,786          2,493   5,293      7 786
Operating & maintenance (US$)          -            800      200   1,000          800      200   1,000           800      200      1.000
Net value of production (US$)   13,325          16,207   5,007  21,214         19,082   5,757  24,839         20,957    7,632   28,589
Incremental net value (US$)                                        7,889                         11,514                          15,264
>
WS = wet season; DS = dry seasun
r- ça



LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Net Value of Production per Scheme
Type:  Ban Ylai (D)                 Without                                          With Project
(120 ha)                 Project               Year 1                         Year 2                         Year 3
WS       DS      Total        WS        DS      Total        WS         DS      Total
Area                                    120         120       36      156          120       36      156          120       36        156
Yield (tons/ha)
- without fertilizer                 1.2          1.5       -        -           1.7       -        -           1.7       -         -
- with fertilizer                     -           1.7      2.8       -          2.0       3.0       -          2.5       3.5        -
Production of paddy (tons)             144          187      100      287          215      108      323          233      126       359
Gross Value (US$)                   18,000       23,375  12,500  35,875        26,875  13,500  40,375         29,125  15,750   44,875
Production Costs
- seeds (30 kg/ha)                   450          450      135      585          450      140      590         450       140       590
- tools ($3/ha)                      360          360      110      470         360       110      470         360       110       470
- draft animals ($10/ha)           1,200       1,200       360   1,560        1,200       360   1,560        1,200      360      1,560
- fertilizer                         -            430   2,410   2,840           430   2,410   2,840            430   2,410       2,840
- insecticides                       -            270      540      810         270      540       810         270      540        810
- incremental labor                               280   2,795   3,075           280   2,795   3,075            280   2,795       3,075
Subtotal                   2010        2,990 6                                 6,350   9,340 2,9 9 9          6,350    9,340
Operating & maintenance (US$)          -            900      300   1,200           900      300    1,200          900      300     1,200
Net value of production (US$)    15,990          19,485   5,850  25,335        22,985   6,850  29,835         25,235   9,100    34,335
Incremental net value (US$)                                         9,345                        13,845                           18,345
WS = wet season; DS = dry season                                                                                                       C
h_n Co



EAO PEOPLES DEMOCRAT1C REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Net Value of Production per Scheme
Type:  Pak Pung (E)                 Without                                           With Project
(300 ha)                 Project               Year 1                          Year 2                         Year 3
WS       DS      Total        WS        DS      Total        WS         DS      Total
Area                                   300          300       90      390          300       90       390          300       90       390
Yield (tons/ha)
- without fertilizer (70%)           1.2         1.5        -        -          1.7       -          -          1.7       -          -
- with fertilizer (20%)               -          1.7      2.8        -          2.0      3.0         -          2.5      3.5         -
Production of paddy (tons)             360         468       252      720         537       270       807         582       315       897
Gross Value (US$)                   45,000      58,500  31,500  90,000         67,125  33,750  100,875         72,750  39,375  112,125
Production Costs
- seeds (30 kg/ha - $3.75/ha)   1,125          1,125      338   1,463         1,125      338     1,463        1,125      338      1,463
- tools ($3/ha)                      900         900      270   1,170           900      270     1,170          900      270      1,170
- draft animals ($10/ha)          3,000        3,000      900   3,900         3,000      900    3,900         3,000      900     3,900
- fertilizer                         -         1,080   6,030   7,110          1,080   6,030      7,110        1,080   6,030      7,110
- insecticides                       -           675   1,350   2,025            675   1,350      2,025          675   1,350      2,025
- incremental labor                  -           700   7,000   7,700            700   7,000      7,700          700   7,000      7,700
Subtotal (US$)            5,025        7,480  15,_888  23,368         7,480  15,888   23,368          7,480  15888   23,368
(perating & maintenance (US$)                    2,300       700   3,000        29300       700    3,000        2,300       700     3,000
Net value of production (US$)   39,975          48,720  14,912  63,632         57,345  17,162   74,507         62,970  22,787   85,757
Incremental net value (US$)                                       23,657                          34,532                          45,782
WS = wet season; DS = dry season                                                                                                     Cr
oDX



C1834/J12885/D754tB-27
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component - Economic Analysis
Schedule of Paddy Ares and Production Under Project
___ ___ __ ___ __-   Year  -
O          1           2           3           4           5           6           7         .     17      18      19          20
-Invesrment costs la                                 817         537         605         617         547           -           -        -      150    150    3dO             -
Area - Wet season                      1,680      1,680       3,360       5,220       6,780       8,320       8,320       8,320       ->       ->      ->     ->       8,320
- Dry season                          -        504       1,008       1,626       2,154       2,154       2,736       2,736       ->      -       -       ->       2,736
Total                      1.680      2,184       4.368       6.846       8.934      11.056      11,056      11.056       ->       -       -              I> 11,056
Total production (tons)                2.016      4,028       8,548      14,173      19,141      24,227      25,198      25,720       ->       -       -      ->      25,720
Gross value (US$)                    252,000   503,500  1,068,500  1,771,625  2,392,625  3,028,375  3,149,750  3,215,000              ->               -      ->  3,215,000
Production coste (US$)                28,140   130,822    261,644    417,018    549,024    690,000    690,000    690,000              ->       -       -      ->    690,000
Operation & maintenance (US$)              -    16,800       33,600      85,630    134,660    216,920    216,920    216,920           ->     4-               ->    216,920
Net value of production (US$)        223,860   355,878    773,256  1,268,977  1,708,941  2,121,455  2,242,830  2,308,080              ->       -       -      ->  2,308,080
Incremental net value (US$)                -   132,018    325,536    573,412    805,506  1,012,815  1,134,190  1,199,440              ->       -      -       ->  1,199,440
Incremental production costs               -    94,240    188,480    302,348    399,379    504,812    504,812    504,812              ->       -      -       ->    504,812
Cross value of production /b               -   372,678    806,856  1,354,607  1,843,601  2,338,375  2,338,375  2,338,375              ->       -       -      ->  2,338,375
La Including technical assistance for the first four<.years.
,b  This is gross value of production minus production conts (operation and maintenance not included).
Economic Rate of Return:  29.55Z.
Senaitivity analysis:       When investment coats increase by 15%, ERR will decline to 26.6%.
When incremental net value of production decreases by 15Z, ERM  - 25Z.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE REHIABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT SJECT
Pig Multiplication Component
Financial and Economic Evaluation
Financial Analysis
1.        A cash flow analysis of the project has been prepared and the
financial rates of return have been estimated to be 15% (Annex 3, Table 4).
The financial rate of return depends directly upon the sale price for weanlings.
The weanlings sale price is itself part of an overall price structure for feed
grains, milled feed and consumer meat.
2.        Government is justified in implementing the project aC the proposed
level because the economic impact of the project on the country, as measured
by the economic rate of return, is substantial. Sensitivity tests on the
financial rate of return show that a 10% increase in investment- would bring the
rate down only by a point (to 14%) while a 10% decrease in benefits would have
a more marked reduction in performance (down to 10%).
Economic Analysis
3.        The project is of high priority and supports Government's strategy
for the livestock sector. At full development in the fifth yiear, annual
production would reach 14,000 weanlings.
4.        As the main objective of the project is to promote pig production,
the internal economic rate of return has been calculated for the integrated
operation (pig multiplication and pig fattening operations) with the following
assumptions:
(a)  Exchange Rate.  The foreign exchange component of the costs was
estimated at appraisal in US dollars.  There was th2refore no need
to shadow price.
(b)  Labor.  Government fixed wages have been used.
(c) Housing Facilities for Pig Fattening. No additional investment
costs have been included as it is considered that, due to a lack of
weanlings, existing facilities of small farmers are unrderutilized.
Provision for repair and maintenance has been included.
(d) Pig Price. An import-parity price for pigs has been used; at the
proposed prices (Annex 3, Table 9), there are no significant differ-
ences in prices between Lao PDR, Thailand and Burma,
5.        Over a 20-year period, it is estimated that the project would have
an economic rate of return (ERR) of 23.5%. When a sensitivity -Lest was run
the following results were observed:



ANNEX 9
Page 2
If investment costs increase by 10%, ERR = 21.6%;
If investment costs increase by 20%, ERR = 19.9%;
If benefits decrease by 10O, ERR = 20.2%;
If benefits decrease by 15%, ERR = 18.5%.
6.        The project would result in net foreign exchange savings of about
$326,000 a year at full production.
7.        In addition, social benefits of the project would be substantial
as it would help:
(a) increase the animal protein intake of the Vientiane
population whose daily protein ration is estimated to be
well below the recommended level. It is estimated that by
1985, the project would meet about 70% of the pork demand
of the Vientiane City population; and
(b) maintain the activity of about 4,500 small livestock
operators.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of the Pig Production Component
(US $' 000)
Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
1      2       3      4       5      6-19    20
Investment costs                         1,118  2,371  1,973    340    138          -       -
Civil works (incl. phys. conting.)  1,068  2,271  1,873    340    138             -      -
and revolving fund
Technical services                       100    100    100        -       -       -      -
Operating expenses                          253    605    680    509    541    541    541
Feed, labor, services and others           18    106    251    364    369    369    369
Livestock (gilts and boars)              235    498    429    145    172    173    173
Value of production                          26    447  1,093  1,978  2,311  2,310  3,554
Fattened pigs                              -    314    867  1,661  1,983  1,983  1,982
Culled sows                               26    133    220    302    302    302    302
Culled boars                               -       -       5     16      26      26     26
Final sale of herd                                                                   1,243
Economic Rate of Return (ERR): 23.55%



":":wEx 10 (a)
Page 1
LAO PEOPLES DEIIOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURLAL REFIABILITATIOIN AED_DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Annual Work Programs
A. Contents of Work Plans
(1) Project budgets for the year for the Directorates of
Irrigation Agriculture and Livestock for their Vientiane
Provincial Irrigation Service covering:
(i)  proposed capital expenditures (e.g. on vehicles, equipment
and civil works ) for the project,
(ii)  all proposed incremental recurrent expenditures on
salaries, fuel, repairs and maintenance directly
attributable to project activities.
(2)   In respect of the Directorates of Irrigation, Agriculture and
Livestock and the Vientiane Provincial Irrigation Service: work,
procurement, staffing and staff training plans for the year as
related to the project.
(3)   Proposed plans for the year for delivery and recovery of credit for
(i) the agronomic package to paddy farmers and (ii) pig feed to
fatteners under the project.
(4)   Review of project performance in the previous year.
B. Supporting Information to be provided to the Association
In respect of each location in the project area proposed to be assisted in the
year the following:
a)  Name of location.
b)  NIumber of participating farmers and the basis of their selection.
c)  Description of proposed increase in physical development (number of
hectares for paddy and number of piglets) for the year.
d)  Description of input package recomnended for each paddy and pig
fattening farm operation.
e)  Quantities of farta inputs required.
f)  Number of extension staff and ratio to participating farmers.
g)  Training program for farmers and location of demonstration work.



ANNEX 1q_ a)
Page 2
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Early Events
Activity                                                                 Target Date
1. Irrigation Component (Directorate of Irrigation and
Provincial Irrigation Service)
Procurement of Force Account Construction Equipment
(a)  Complete tender documents for force account
equipment and advertise (ICB)                               May 1978
(b)  Evaluate bids and award contracts                             September 1978
(c)  Receive construction equipment                                November-
December 1978
First Force Account Construction
(d) Complete detailed engineering design for first
year s construction                                           March 1978
(e) Start construction of small structures and
features not requiring earthmoving equipment                  April 1978
(f)  Start construction with earthmoving equipment                 December 1978
2.   Rice Intensification Component (Provincial Irrigation Service)
(a)  Complete design for improved irrigation facilities            March 1978
(b)  Start construction on force account                           April 1978
3.   Pig Multiplication Component (Directorate of Livestock)
(a) Complete detailed construction design documents
and request bids for contract construction or
investigate arrangements for force account
construction of first year's buildings                       April 1978
(b)  Advertise for supply of material for first year              April 1978
(c)  Submission of bids                                           May 1978
(d)  Evaluation bids and award contract or finalise
arrangements for force account construction                  July 1978
(e)  Start construction                                           August 1978



Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Reporting Requirements
To assist in the supervision of this project, the Association would
expect to be sent the following reports and programs at regular intervals.
(i) Six-monthly Project Progress Reports. This would comprise a report
on progress of project activities in relation to project targets,
by the three project directors (Appraisal Report para. 4.03). The
format of the report would be agreed between the Directorate General
of Agriculture and the Association at the time of the field visit
of the first supervision mission. Two six-monthly reports would be
sent to the Association each year, covering the periods October-
March and April-September.
(ii) Annual Work Program. The content of the work program is outlined
in Annex 10, page 1 of the Appraisal Report and the amount of
detail required would be discussed during the first supervision
mission. Apart from the first year of the project for which the
program would be submitted by March 1, 1978, the annual work program
prepared by the three project directors would be submitted to the
Association not later than July 1, for each twelve-month period
October 1-September 30. (This period is convenient in relation to
the construction period for civil works.)
(iii) Annual Audit of Project Accounts. The first supervision mission
would provide guidelines to project audit requirements (Annex 10).
The annual audit by the State Auditor should be completed within
four months of the end of the project fiscal year and sent to the
Association as soon as possible, thereafter.
(iv) Monitoring and Evaluation Reports. Again, the first supervision
mission would provide information on the format and content of
(a) project monitoring reports and (b) project evaluation reports.
These reports would be drawn up by the staff of the Directorate
General of Agriculture and the Directorate of Planning (Appraisal
Report para. 4.17). Project monitoring reports would be submitted
annually to the Association at the end of September for the year
October-September. The project evaluation report to determine
the impact of the project would be submitted at the end of
project implementation.
General
The above reports and programs are regular records of project
activities and proposals for future activities. They do not include designs
and specifications for irrigation structures, irrigation scheme summary data
sheets, designs of pig multiplication units, procurement documents and con-
tracts which would be dealt with separately as they become available and
whenever possible during supervision mission visits.



ANNEX 10 (c)
Page 1
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Audit Guidelines
General
Reasons for the Bank Group's Auditing Requirements
In ary business or other enterprise the prompt and regular prepara-
tion OL accounts is an important means of ensuring that the enterprise is
carrying out adequately the tasks assigned to it. Accounts are essential not
only for the enterprise itself, but aiso for lenders, who need reliable
information about the financial condition of the organization they are
helpina to finance. As a lender, the Bank Group, in appraising a project, has
to be satisfied that the financial data presented are accurate and complete,
and that, during the implementation of the project, the borrower will have
adequate financial controls and follow proper accounting principles. These
are the reasons why the services of auditors are required for IDA projects.
Definition of Audit
An audit is an authorized examination of the accounts and accounting
system of an organization, whose purpose is to enable the auditors to report
on the financial statements of the organization and to express an opinion on
their fairness, consistency and conformity with accepted accounting principles:
(a)  to make a critical review of the system of bookkeeping, accounting
and internal control;
(b)  to make such tests and enquiries as the auditors consider necessary
to form an opinion as to the reliability of the records as a basis
for the preparation of accounts;
(c) to compare the financial statements with the underlyîng records in
order to see whether they are in accordance with them;
(d) to make a critical review of the financial statements and to report
whether, in the opinion of the auditors, the accounts are presented
and the items are described in such a way that they show not only
a true but also a fair view and give in the prescribed manner the
information required by law;
(e) to review compliance with various relevant terms ard conditions of
the credit agreement.



ANNEX 10 (c)
Page 2
Selection and Appointment of Auditors
The borrower is responsible for the selection and appointment of
auditors. The Bank Group requires, however, that the person or firm appointed
should have experience and qualifications acceptable both to the Bank
Group and to the borrower.
The criteria employed by the Bank Group in judging the acceptability
of auditors are that the auditors should be professionally qualified and in
particular:
(a) be impartial and independent of the control of the entity subject
to audit and of the person appointing them: in particular, the
auditors should not, during the period covered by the audit, be
employed by, or serve as director for, or have any financial or
close business relationship with the entity, except as independent
professional advisers;
(b) be well-established and reputable, using procedures and methods in
conformity with, internationally recognized and generally accepted
auditing practice and employing adequate staff with professional
qualifications and suitable experience by international standards;
and
(c) have experience of auditing the accounts of entities comparable in
nature, size and complexity to the entity whose audit they are to
undertake.
Before project auditors are appointed, therefore, the borrower should arrange
that the Bank Group be furnished with sufficient information about the auditors
to enable it to satisfy itself on the above matters. This information would
normally include the name of the firm (or government department or agency)
the names and qualifications of the principals, the approximate number of
professional staff employed and some of the main audits carried out.
Professional and Government Auditors
The choice between professional and government auditors will normally
depend on the nature of the project and who is executing it. A non-revenue
earning project being carried out by a government department, following
government accounting and budgeting procedures, would normally be audited by
the government auditor. On the other hand, a revenue earning project
executed by a company or corporation (whether wholly government-owned or not),
and using commercial accounting and budgeting procedures, would normally be
audited by a professional firm. In some cases, the nature of the project
calls for a joint audit by the government auditor in collaboration with
a professional firm.



NJiNEX 10 (c)
Page 3
To encourage the growth of domestic firms of auditors, -  Sank,
§ierever possible, agrees to the appointment of a local firm, eLcco: alone
în coniunction with an internationaL firm.
,-,dit Procedures
The procedures employed by the auditor should always be designed
m-o enable him to arrive at an opinion Dn the fairness of the financial
,tatements which are the subject of his report.
The extent of the auditor's test of the accounting records is depen-
<s.e-Qa on the system of accounts and internal check and control main-ained by
-he company.
For this purpose, the auditor should examine:
{a) the organization and procedures for taking financial declsions and
authorizing expenditures;
(b)  the design, management and operation of the accounting system;
(c)  the efficiency of the system of internal control and cf 'nternal
audit;
(d)  the adequacy and competence of accounts staff;
(a)  the effectiveness of related systems and procedures, s-ucîh as
inventory control, or data processing, payroll records and vehicle
records.
In the light of this examination of systems and procedures, the
ditor should test the financial transactions of the organizaticn, in
orjunction with such evidence, documentary or otherwise, as may be necessary
o enable him to be satisfied as to the authenticity and correctness off the
-ransactions, their complete and proper record in the bo-ks off account, and
;-hiir effect on the financial results. The evidence r-werred tc above will
-nclude: documents such as checks, invoices, contracts, minutes of meetings,
cank statements and confirmations by third parties of amounts payable or
-eceivable; and information obtained by the auditor from enquiry, observation
and physical inspections.
By means of similar tests, the auditor should satisfy hiimself as to
mhe existence and basis of valuation cf assets and liabilities, such as:
(a)  land, building, machinery and equipment, including provi-sion for
deprecation;
(b)  inventories, including provision for obsolescence, spoilage or
losses;



ANNEX 10 (c)
Page 4
(c)  receivables, including provisions for bad and doubtful debts;
(d) cash and bank balances;
(e) amounts due to third parties (long and short-term loans and
suppliers' accounts payable).
In addition, the auditors' examination should cover such items as capital
commitments, contingent liabilities and events occurring after the balance
sheet date (for example, material changes in the value of commodity
inventories).
Audit Report
The auditor should submit both short-form and long-form reports.
These report should be addressed to the Chairman of the Board of Directors
(or equivalent) and not to any member of the management.
The following is an example short-form report:
"We have examined the balance sheet of                  as of
19  , and the profit and loss account and related statements for
the year then ended.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the
accounting records, verification of assets and liabilities, and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements and appended
notes present fairly the financial position                 at
19  , and the results of its operations for the year then ended,
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles,
applied on a basis consistent in all material respects with that
of the previous year.
When a qualified opinion is offered by the auditors, or when an
opinion is disclaimed, the opinion paragraph of a short-form report should
be modified in such a way as to make clear the nature of the qualification or
disclaimer. It should refer specifically to the subject of the qualification
and to the effect on the financial position and results of operations, if
reasonably determinable.
The report should include comments, if any, deemed appropriate by
the auditor with respect to any material deficiencies or inadequacies in
the organization's accounts or accounting system and recommendations for
improving accounting procedures.



ANNEX 10 (c)
Page 5
The long-form report is an extension of the short-form report and
should give appropriate details (analyses, summaries, explanations and
comments) of items in the various audited financial statements.  The audited
financial statements would normally include:
(a) balance sheet;
(b) profit and loss account;
(c)  profit and loss (income and expenditure) statement of each major
unit contributing a material part, say more than 20% of revenue or
incurring more than, say, 20% of costs or such other criteria as
the auditor shall determine;
(d) statement of sources and application of funds.
All statements should, when practicable, show comparative figures for the
preceding year.
Comments and recommendations in the long-form report would cover,
for example:
(a)  implementation of recommendations made in previous years;
(b) management organization;
(c) budgetary control;
(d) financial and field controls;
(e) payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
(f) inventory control and stock levels;
(g) adherence to public accounting standards;
(h) efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
(i) events after the date of the balance sheet significantly affecting
the financial position.
With regard to the IDA Credit disbursement applications, in
particular those accompanied by a statement of expenditures, the auditor's
report should also indicate:
(a) implementation of recommendations made in previous years;



ANNEX 10 (c)
Page 6
(b) management organization;
(c) budgetary control;
(d) financial and field controls;
(e) payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
(f) inventory control and stock levels;
(g) adherence to public accounting standards;
(h) efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
(i) events after the date of the balance sheet significantly affecting
the financial position.
With regard to the IDA Credit disbursement applications, in particular
those accompanied by a statement of expenditures, the auditor's report should
also indicate that:
(a) goods and services have been procured from member countries, or
Switzerland;
(b) goods have been received or works performed;
(c) payments have been made, and;
(d)  goods and services are eligible for financing under the credit
agreement and have been used under the project.
The borrower should arrange for copies of the short- and long-form reports to
be transmitted to IDA together with the audited accounts.
Pig Component - Additional Guidelines
The Auditor would pay special attention to the system of internal
control over the following aspects:
(a) capital expenditure: civil works, equipment, vehicles, furniture,
fittings;
(b) purchases (local and foreign): breeding stock, feed, drugs, etc.;
(c) sales: animals, feed and sundry sales;
(d) stocks and stores, including animal stocks;



ANNEX 10 (c)
Page 7
(e) salaries and wages;
(f) other expenses;
(g) cash and bank;
(h) credit - sales of feed;
(i)  insurance:  fire, theft, personal accident, fidelity.



Page 1
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUJBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government's Procurement Procedures
Under Government's existing procedures, all imports are procured
by the Import-Export Corporation of Lao PDR which is an agency within the
Ministry of Industry and Trade. In addition to the Import-Export Corporation,
three other agencies are usually involved in procurement: the procuring
ministry, the Ministry of Finance and the External Trade Bank.
The procurement cycle (Chart 8) begins at the procuring ministry.
There, a project manager prepares the technical specifications for the purchase
of items included in the annual expenditure program. A request for procurement,
containing the specifications, is then presented to the Import-Export Corpora-
tion by the project manager through the Director General. After ensuring that
the procurement request is in accordance with the approved expenditure program,
the Corporation solicits bids from foreign suppliers. Bids are not advertised
formally, but are solicited - either directly or indirectly - through a letter
(or in urgent cases, by phone) or indirectly through the country's commercial
attaches - from an established wide network of suppliers in Bangkok, Hong Kong,
Singapore or Tokyo.
Bid evaluation is the responsibility of a special commission within
each ministry. In the Ministry of Agriculture, the commission is composed of
the Director for Planning and Statistics, a representative from the Director
General's office, a representative from the Ministry of Finance and the project
manager. Bids are evaluated according to the following criteria: (i) lowest
price; (ii) where appropriate (e.g., heavy machinery and equipment), existence
of service facilities, availability of spare parts and need for standardization;
and (iii) if time is a major constraint, speed of delivery. There is no
official boycott of imports from any country. Usually, the commission awards
bids on the basis of a recommendation from the project manager. The commis-
sion's decision is then approved by the Director General and passed on to the
Import-Export Corporation which arranges the purchase.
Payment to the supplier is made by the External Trade Bank which
is a division of the National Bank of Laos. Before an LC is opened, however,
a committee composed of representatives of the External Trade Bank and the
Ministry of Finance authorizes the release of foreign exchange. The External
Trade Bank has correspondent banks in major financial capitals and has had no
difficulties in opening LC's in the past. The Bank denominates all its
payments in US dollars.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REIIABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmer Credit Arrangements
General
1.        The project requires provision of credit for rice seed, fertilizer
and insecticides, and for purchase of pig feed. The initial objective is to
develop a simple, straightforward system for delivery and collection of
credit. This development would contribute to institution building and if
successful the system would be further developed for future projects. Super-
vision missions would pay particular attention to credit aspects of the
project and would report fully on the progress of this part of the project.
The credit to be provided under the project is short term. Its provision is
necessary for the success of the project and it is available only through the
channels to be utilized under the project.
lianagement and Planning of the Credit Operation
2.        Credit arrangements would be managed by the Credit Department of
the National Bank of Laos (BNL). The Head Office of BNL is located in
Vientiane City. There are 13 branches, one in each province. The branch in
Vientiane Province is located in Vientiane City. As soon as feasible sub-
branches would be set up at district level. Until their establishment,
farmers requiring credit would apply to the Economic Committee of the District
Administration. In the Vientiane Province these District Committees have
adequate staff for this function. The total staff in the Credit Department
of the Head Office is about 40 persons, of whom five are senior officers with
experience in credit operations. The total staff in the branch in Vientiane
Province is about 50 persons of whom about seven are senior officers. At
the district level the Economic Committee deals with agriculture, industry,
trade and marketing. The Committee includes an officer in charge of develop-
ment with some seven staff for agricultural matters. BNL are an independent
organization and not a member of any Economic Committee.
Finance
3.        Funds for credit would be allocated from the Government budget to
the Credit Department of BNL who would have full authority to manage these
funds.  These funds would be provided by Government to BNL free of interest.
The total requirement of funds for credit for each year would be determined
for each area by the Ministry of Agriculture staff in association with dis-
trict officials. The auditing of BNL accounts would be carried out by a
joint audit of the MIinistry of Finance (the State Auditor) and the BNL
Internal Audit Unit.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Arrangements with Farmers
4.        Priority in selection of farmers for participation in the credit
program would be given to those farmers who have combined in cooperatives and
self-aid groups and to state farms. (However, credit would also be given
to farmers who preferred to work individually outside these cooperatives
and groups.) In the Vientiane province, self-aid groups would comprise
some 10-15 farmers. In this area the minimum village size would be about
50 farmers. The main requirements for approval of credit would be that a
farmer has farmed successfully in the past and is a full-time farmer.
Farmers would not be required to make downpayments against subloans. As
there are no land titles, these cannot be used as collateral.  However, the
annual product would be considered as collateral. Farmers would have several
or individual liability on subloans. The first supervision mission would
receive a copy of the subloan agreement between BNL and participating organi-
zations/farmers. Defaulting farmers would not receive a further loan until
a previous loan was repaid. Where loans were not repaid, penalty rates of
interest would not be levied but BNL would continue its efforts to collect
outstanding loans. In years when crops were poor due to climatic or other
reasons beyond the farmers' control, participants would be required to repay
the principal only with one year's grace period on repayment. In such cases,
interest would be written off.
Appraisal of Subloans
5.        Cooperatives, self-aid groups, state farms and individual farmers
in their application for a subloan would be required to present a farm plan
to the Economic Committee. As part of the examination of the farm plan the
staff member of the Economic Committee would visit the farm(s) in question.
A report would then be submitted to the head of the Economic Committee on
the feasibility of the farm plan as judged on technical, economic and manage-
ment considerations. Subloan amounts per farmer are unlikely to exceed
K 50,000 but larger amounts could be approved for specific projects. Authority
for subloan approval is given as follows (the amounts refer to the subloan
per individual involved):
(i) Credit less than K 50,000 per individual - approval by Provincial
Branch of BNL;
(ii) Credit K 50,000-100,000 per individual - approval by Head Office
of BNL in consultation with Ministry of Agriculture in Vientiane
(within the Ministry, the Directorate of Planning would consult
with the Directorates of Irrigation, Agriculture and Livestock,
as appropriate); and
(iii) Credit more than K 100,000 per individual - in such cases,
approval is given by the Cabinet.
Where necessary prior to approval of a subloan, the Ministry of Agriculture
in Vientiane, the BNL and the District Economic Committee would carry out
field visits. Technical agricultural staff at district and provincial levels
are administratively responsible to the Province and District but technically
responsible to the Ministry in Vientiane City.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Interest Rates
6.        Short-term credit (6-12 months) would be at the rate of 0.5% per
month, 6% per annum. Long-term (1-3 years) would be at the rate of 3% per
annum. Inputs in this project are short term. (Long-term inputs would be,
e.g., equipment, machinery, buffaloes.) The interest rate of 6% for short-
term credit is the standard rate set by Government and is justified on the
basis that the economy is planned; there is no opportunity cost of capital
and there is no spread to BNL. Interest rates are applied according to the
following categories of production units as approved by Government on
September 29, 1976:
(i) Army units and state organizations - interest rates as above.
(ii) Cooperatives, self-aid groups and individuals - interest rates
as above.
(iii) Shifting cultivators - short-term credit: 0.25% per month/p.a.
- long-term credit:   3% per month.
The objective of the low interest rate for short-term credit is to reduce
shifting cultivation and encourage permanent farming.
Administrative Charges
7.        Administrative charges are not included in the interest rate.  BNL
administrative expenses are paid out of the government budget.  The 6% margin
in short-term credit is returned to the Government.
Procurement and Distribution of Inputs
8.        Inputs would be stored in warehouses at the provincial level and in
stores at the district level. In Vientiane Province, large warehouses exist
in Vientiane City and at Tha Ngon. During storage, project inputs would be
under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. Farmers would receive
vouchers for inputs and would collect inputs personally from warehouses and
stores.
Repayment of Subloans
9.        In cases of group subloans, individual farmers would be identified.
Farmers within a group would still have the right to repay a loan at their
own selected time within the set period of 6-12 months. However, repayment
would be channeled through the head of the group. Collection of repayments
in the form of cash would be made by Provincial BNL staff at the time of
harvest or sale of product.
Arrangements for Extension and Farmer Supervision
10.       Extension services and supervision of the use of credit would be
carried out by the Provincial Irrigation, Agriculture and Livestock Services.



LAO PEOPLES`DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION COMPONENT
ORGANIZATION OF VIENTIANE PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION SERVICE
DIRECTOR GENERAL
. OF
AGRICULTUFlE
I
DIRECTORATE
OF
IRRliGATION
VIENTIANE
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION
SERVIC(E
AI)MINISMiATION                                      DESIGjN                CONSTIRUCTION             EOlUIPMENT
ANt)                        SUIIVEY                  AND                    AND                       SUPI'LIES
ACC OlJNIlS             _DRA F TING                                         O & M                     WOR KS flOP
WoId Plank-17322
rt



LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RtEFIABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION COMPONENT
SCHEDULE OF CONSTRUCTION FOR EARTHWORKS
(iOURS OF EFFECTIVE WORK)
Nov      Dec.        a        Feb.      Mai      Apri       May      eun.
Farni road                                     900
anid Embankmenl                  _
500
ileadwAork site                                  __.__
baii ¶aIlai                                          -         -        -
750
draiu,age impr.
distributaries
1. Dry Season: Nov.  Apt.
2. Wet Seasoni: May -Oct.
3. Max. effective limc for conissruction is 1,200 tsouis/yeuar. lhie daily ellectivue working houts are
6 hours/daiy, 25 days/miQltl.
Wouid Iaiank-17323
It
rt



*2hart 3
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHAB1LITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Schemnatic  .ayout for 300 ha Systam
1000 m   -                  R
Supply (Diversion or Pumo
Contrai up to 5 Nos
O       Crcu drainag                            - - - -                         _         R
/      Distributary offtake                ,
In ech di«mliuttarV                                                                                  Sarrrzw
Check musrures C                                                      2-0 rn                       Pit -drain
Fieid offtaces FP
End structure E
Pi0Rag protection R
drains ta
de ,maroved
Extra fill to auna s cut
Main Canai X Section                                     Citl                                      n layre  'rom  fierds
-~~~~~ ~ ~                           i<Orn  crri
50cm
Distributar'y X Section
Narlod 8anc-d 7321



LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGFICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION COMPONENT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
WORK ITEM        1977         1978         1979          1980         1981         1982          1983
uoI)IVclal (icu
Supplv ti cof trcion 
Opto aitti ofI
îîttvuyludittil    I-    -  _-  - _       -- -_     _   l --  - -     -_--  _- 
B..ttutiuttta nI              :LT1r m :2:
Word Iank-I17320
fi
rt



LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RICE INTENSFICATION COMPONENT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1977                 1978                 1979                 1980
WORK ITEM
______________   J  J  DJ     J         O JD       J         D i    J      |
CONSTRUCTION IRRIGA-
TION FACIL ITIES FOR
SEED PRODUCTION
PRODUCTION IMPROVED                                                -
SEED
SUPPI-Y IMPHOVED SELD_
TO FARMtliS
SUPPI-Y AGRONOMIC
PACKAGE
IMPLEMENT CHEDIT
FACILITIES FOR                                -
AGliONOMIC PACKAGE
IMPLEMLNT FARMER_
TRAINING PROGRAM
IMPLEMENT lESEARCII
AND DEVEI-OPMENT
PliOHiRAM
RECUitJIT ADVISOR
rB



LAO PEOPILES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PIG MULTIPLICATION COMPONENT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
_                     ~~~~     ~      ~~19717  19783              1979                   1 98C
WOFiK ITEM
_______________   J  J  D   J  J         D J         J          D J        J           l
ESTABLISIIMENT OF
PFI UHEEDING AND
MULTIPLICATION UNIT
SITE SELECTIlN
PHIOCUFRE MATEHIlAI S
ANO EOUIPMLNT
CONSTRIUCTION OF
fJUILDINGS
ESTABLISII CHEDIT                                                    -
FAC ILITIES
SUPPLY PIGLETS TO
FARMEflS___
IdECHUII ADVISOltS
Worid I3iaik-17457
mi



LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REIIABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED CROPPING CALENDAR
Seasons  J    F   M    A    M    J    J    A    S    O    N    D    J    F   M    A    M    J
NOTATION: Ntrsery -N   Talnt\ -T   Mdaittiinenit -M Hretn
WoWII  Bank-17319
/ ~   -    -    -    -



LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REtlABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Procurenient Procedures
Organoflow Chart
TECIINICAL MINISTRY
-uMiaiaarv  anprovuas  ttnuel
eapaIodliure  pruoaremrmno       _________________a_________
- Project f iana0ir prtepaIs            .                 i  _ .n.p-
tacholcel speclilcationz
lor pmocurament
IMPORT-EXPORT CORPFORATION                       tXTERNAL TRADE UANK                             MINISTRY Of F INANCE                              IMPORT-EXPORT CORPORATION
-Preplirea purchiese orders                     -ToueUser with                              UUREAU 0F TIUE UUDGET                                 -Issues and edeertiseas tender
ae d coniss.ts supplier                          repreaentatieie of                            Apprûpriatea Iunds for tan                          dncumentaX for pPocurernent of
-Hueuests Esieriiel lieUe                         Mln. of Fi na nce                            approvcd annuel eaponditure                          a4ulpment authoîized in Use
Beîîk ta n îeke payîneîît                        varifise Corpora-                             progueramîn                                         budget
to  îii ppltr                        - -         Ilois  reques i                                       _*--f -eceliies blds frorn supplierr
-Tekes .daiverV oil lîiporaod a_udinas buduet
uoodb                                a~~~~~~~~~~~lbocaljon
-Aruîuiua dulivt v '°                         -Openes LC
Trclînicl Minsistry
TECIINICAL MINISTRY-
UID EVALUATION COMMISSION
Four members:
-pirectar ot Pîenîsng
-Rtepresenlativa of Minlsîîy of Finanlce
-Reprasentativ of thae Direun,o Genearal
-Projact Mdu1ailur
-Upon reconsmen1datban of Prajuct                                                                  Fi
sp )Ico nowr  hueée his bueri is0 <uin)al cddvel lissi iu                                      Maîsajur selects bid                                                                              rt
tuîîder docuîîîeîî  IdiU aoe soliciled frins suppliers                                       -Cognnsssion's ducision is appsoved                                                                0c
ciller ulrouoh reîurisuiidtises ol smmpplleis ilw Vieritiane,                                by tde Director GiaeraIl (tfrnsalityî
tkîmikok, ilboil Kulîm  om Suisiipcoic os tliiouui t Lei
Coi linuiciil Oitacl léS in miaoir s uppliürs' Calpit is.                                  _            _
Worid Baîsk - 17601



'  C HXN  A       )   ,<    `<r        '<_    n 102                                      22°-.                      CHINAi `   J - >
<ETN  A N  &
,  </  THAILAND                         >        \    ,    u           u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HILN
eng ~  ~       ~       ~       KlTmoMn S             'i.^)            `
LAO  PEOPLE'S                                 M     2 u   y_          4         ``~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMOA
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                            v          w  X ,           "Ç---- X   s~~~~~CHIA SE
o  Malor Town5                                       % \Z3   ,g' '--&   ' ' t;St   (_~~~~~~~~~~  M E S 
~~ 4~  Rod UnerCntuto                                                       Vh                 > 
20- Dm#- ;<  
DAM,M                                  O     I                $S?                           4
1012°   /                  10A°                               X6°    -                 1     l~k.






IBRD 12883
,         ~~~~~102'30'                                      52C H I N A   l0'S 1                            iZt-     06        H I N A
LAO  PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC                                        e>.  Et ,tRo' .Y   IE    N A M                        >
VIENTIANE PROVINCE                                                                                           j s4`9j-
PROJECT  AREA                                                                         H0ft/  °d *,,~')IUAPHPA-NV    9 20
BariHin_bgSwD-                                                                                           e 4~ pHAMVoOUAN
4   X 8 >   A   -;i @ e t;   az                                                    t S<v»Er -X5à~~~~~~~LA N 
-le30'     X   ~Bon Phon Ngtn8                        <-0;1e0-Ip6                                               t      
/   -    -   -   )   '   '   , ,   o S  w    5Zi.,     -   -,   \ ;   >   c    bonndarla    sSIez tl    on    tha    /lar   Jv    not   ,   103 
/   *  -   r 1   -  4  S49 lS- # Z - -- -- \  \   -        Impb cndorsetnene or :Cecprance by dA Z  eA j ~ 7g      4.
Z  -   .~~.-',.  '. o i   -   '  .   -   ,  -   ' , s , ,  ,'':,  ',  .  s   \ " '  W orldEanka mlirsa,Kfitiares  (~~~~~104
(   .   -Bci  No  -  -  -> \ - \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13l,
LuSAuNY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l                                                      by m
-l8O'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,l .~                                  -J i-f f                                       13°
\   tANE  )\\>v_/i~~~hon
, ' "' ' q Si ) <' 
.   ,    .'`  '   '             ,               \    d'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
ta v. U   roject  reu   ,       j r             >                \c/
P-P ovincial Borndctries                   . 
-Internotional Boundaries-   'b\
.                  <s- }            \           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  H  A  I  L  A   D.1
0 ~      l   0   15      2S 7 
K ILOMEtER5 S 
.  10a2°30,                                                                            103t0'
§  0                  \                    `                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1977



