FILE        COPV                             Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE QNLY
Report No.P-2185-LA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 14, 1977
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kip de liberation
US$1.00             2 KL 200
KL 1.00             = US$0.005
KL 1.00 million     = US$5,000
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
FEOF  =  Foreign Exchange Operations Fund
NLHS  = Neo Lao Hak Sat (Pathet Lao Front Organization)
OPEC  = Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PGNU  = Provisional Government of National Union
USAID = United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Lao People's Democratic Republic
Amount:          $8.2 million
Terms:           Standard
Proiect
Description:    The project, to which the UNDP is contributing $1.7 million
equivalent on grant terms for technical assistance, would
(a) directly benefit about 10,000 poor farm families by
raising incomes of nearly half of them above poverty levels
and of the other half by about 20%; (b) improve nutrition by
helping increase rice and pork production in the Vientiane
Province through improved water management, provision of an
agronomic package to farmers and establishment of a regular
supply of piglets for fattening; and (c) strengthen planning
and implementation capacity of agencies involved in rural
development. Specifically, the project would include:
(i)  construction and rehabilitation of about 48 small gravity
and pump irrigation schemes, varying from 100 to 300 ha
each, over a total of about 8,300 ha;
(ii) establishment of 10 pig multiplication units of
120 sows each;
(iii) production of improved rice seeds and research
and development of rice cultivation techniques;
(iv) credit for agricultural inputs and pig feed;
(v)  procurement of equipment, vehicles, materials, pig
breeding stock and agricultural inputs; and
(vi) technical assistance for project planning and execution,
and studies to prepare a program of small irrigation
works for other priority areas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Cost:
…- $ million -------          Foreign
Local   Foreign     Total      Exchange
Irrigation                   1.9       3.7        5.6        65
Rice intensification         0.2       0.4        0.6        67
Pig multiplication           0.2       1.0        1.2        80
Technical assistance          -        1.4        1.4       100
Subtotal                   2.3       6.5        8.8        73
Physical contingencies       0.3       0.3        0.6        50
Expected price increases     0.9       1.6        2.5        64
Total project costs        3.5       8.4       11.9        70
Financing Plan:
------- $ million -------     % of
Local    Foreign     Total    Total
Government     2.0       -          2.0       17
IDA            1.5      6.7         8.2       69
UNDP            -       1.7         1.7       14
3.5      8.4        11.9      100
Estimated
Disbursements:                            -------$ million----------
IDA FY   1978   1979   1980  1981   1982
Annual                  0.3     2.5    2.5   1.5   1.4
Cumulative              0.3    2.8     5.3   6.8   8.2
Economic Rate
of Return:         25%
Estimated Project
Completion Date:   December 31, 1982
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1593-LA, dated December 12, 1977



REPORT ANiD RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMIENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMIOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION ANiD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Lao People's Democratic Republic for the equivalent
of $8.2 million on standard IDA terms to help finance an Agricultural Reha-
bilitation and Development Project. The United Nations Development Programme
is contributing $1.7 million equivalent to the project on grant terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Some Findings Relative to the Reconstruction
and Economic Development of Laos" (668-LA) was distributed on April 9, 1975
under cover of Secretary's Memorandum (M75-239). Soon after the above report
was distributed important political events occurred which have had a major
impact on the state of the Lao economy. The following discussion of economic
problems and prospects of the Lao economy is based primarily on the findings of
staff members who visited the Lao People's Democratic Republic in October 1976
and February/March, August and November 1977. Country data are given in Annex 1.
Recent Political Events
3.        Since the signing on September 14, 1973 of the Vientiane Peace
Accord, Laos has undergone fundamental political and social changes. In April
1974, the Provisional Government of National Union (PGNU) was established,
bringing the old adversaries in the civil war into a short-lived coalition.
Although formally a national government, PGNU's mandate only extended over the
territory that had been controlled by the Vientiane Government before the
armistice. The rest of the country, with about three quarters of the territory
but only a third of the total population of roughly 3.2 million, continued to
be administered by the Neo Lao Hak Sat (NLHS) from its wartime headquarters
in Sam Neua. Soon after the changes of the government in South Viet Nam and
Cambodia in spring 1975, the year-old coalition in Laos came under increasing
political pressure from the NLHS. In May 1975, major demonstrations against
the presence of USAID in Laos led to the closure of the USAID mission and
the departure of a number of leading cabinet members of the PGNU drawn from
the former Vientiane Government. In the second half of 1975, with the
appointment of neutralist ministers to succeed the ones who had fled the
country, de facto power in the PGNU transferred to the NLHS and was followed
by a major exodus of people and flight of capital. It is estimated that
150,000 people have since left the country. Finally, on December 2, 1975,
the National Congress of People's Representatives, which had been elected in
October-November, proclaimed the formation of the Lao People's Democratic
Republic, thereby abolishing the PGNU and the monarchy.
4.        For nearly a year, beginning in Summer 1975, the new regime's
attention was focused almost entirely on the need to establish and consoli-
date a nationwide party organization and an administrative apparatus capable
of maintaining law and order; short-term management of the economy was
neglected during this period. Since coming to power the present government



has had to cope with occasional resistance movements by the Meo and other
groups in various parts of the country. However, there does not seem to be
any serious threat to the survival of the present government. Relations with
neighboring socialist countries are cordial. Lao-Thai relations, however, have
been strained in recent months. Nevertheless, both governments have stated
their desire to work towards improved relations and are expected to resume
regular flights between the two countries.
Recent Economic Developments
5.        Through 1975, 1976 and most of 1977, the Lao economy suffered from
severe shortages of goods and foreign exchange, disruptions in internal and
external trade as well as financial instability, due primarily to internal
political upheavals and a sharp drop in foreign economic assistance. The
drastic reduction in foreign aid since mid-1975 and the decline in economic
activity, which accompanied the political developments, led to a sudden drop
in the standard of living of the highly consumption-oriented urban areas around
Vientiane, which had been the principal beneficiary of foreign assistance.
Supplies there diminished as: (a) imports fell sharply following the rapid
decline and then termination in MIarch 1976 of the Foreign Exchange Operations
Fund (FEOF),/1 the closure from November 1975 to January 1976 of the Thai border,
which was subsequently only partially reopened, and the placing of an embargo
in mid-1977 by Thailand on exports of Thai goods to Laos, which has recently
been partially lifted; (b) output of factories declined due to the departure of
a number of industrialists, the nationalization of some industries and the
shortage of both technicians and imports of raw materials, fuel, and spare parts;
and (c) poor weather reduced the 1976 rice crop and farmers withheld their
surpluses from the markets in response to price controls and the subsequent
establishment of a state run marketing system; and as a result, prices of food
and basic commodities on the free market rose considerably above official levels.
6.        The financial situation deteriorated rapidly in 1975/76 as government
expenditures rose, revenues declined and state enterprises, particularly the
public distribution system created in mid-1975 to market basic commodities at
low and stable prices, incurred heavy financial losses. The increase in
government expenditures reflected primarily the shifting of items, formerly
financed directly by foreign aid, to the government budget, the costs of
initial resettlement of about 500,000 displaced persons and the increase of
civil service salaries to help compensate for inflation, while the decline in
revenues stemmed mainly from the sharp drop in foreign assistance. Recourse
to bank credit to finance the growing budget deficits and financial losses of
state enterprises led to rapid monetary expansion. Thus, limited supplies and
rapidly expanding money supply fueled inflation. In addition, the official
exchange rate became increasingly unrealistic as the parallel market rate
depreciated rapidly reflecting both rapid inflation and substantial capital
flight, which accompanied the evolution of the transfer of power to the NLHS.
Although rural areas were mainly shielded from these developments, real
incomes in urban areas like Vientiane, Savanakhet, Pakse, etc., which account
for about 10% of the population, fell sharply.
/1 Set up in 1964 by a group of donors under the auspices of the IMF to
channel direct foreign balance of payments and budgetary support to Laos.



7.        In the summer of 1976, to absorb excess liquidity in the economy,
control inflation, stabilize the exchange rate and equalize cash holdings of
the population, the Government demonetized the former Vientiane Kip (K) and
replaced it by the Kip de liberation (KL), which circulated in the former NLHS
zone, at a conversion rate of K 20 per KL, and devalued the KL by nearly 70%
vis-a-vis the US dollar. During the currency conversion, nearly half of
the money supply was eliminated from circulation due to losses, nondeclara-
tions and withholdings. Nevertheless, the deflationary impact of these
measures was short-lived as poor budget discipline and mounting financial
losses by state enterprises continued to expand liquidity. Towards the end
of 1976, the Government introduced an agricultural production tax to increase
revenues and took measures to improve the financial position of state
enterprises.
8.        Indications are that since early 1977, with additional disburse-
ments of external aid, higher revenues and tighter controls on public
expenditures, the country's economic situation, although still serious,
is beginning to stabilize. The supply situation has improved slightly with
the arrival of new commodity aid, the reopening of about 200 enterprises, and
an easing of restrictions on free market transactions and imports of basic
consumption goods. Moreover, the Government has been able to provide an
average monthly rice ration of 15 kg per capita at a fixed price to about
half a million, mostly urban, people, thereby averting hunger in the ciLies.
In addition, compared with the previous year, the budget deficit and the rate
of monetary expansion have been cut by nearly two thirds. As a result ot
these developments, consumer prices, which in mid-1976 were rising dramatically
at an annual rate of about 400% on the free market, have slowed down consider-
ably to less than 50% in late 1977. Moreover, a substantial part of the
basic necessities of urban consumers is provided at fixed prices through
government-controlled shops and cooperatives. Therefore, the adverse impact
of inflation on real urban incomes is less than that suggested by inflation
rates on the free market. Nevertheless, the exchange rate on the narrow but
active parallel market is ten times the official rate of KL 200 per US$. The
Government is most concerned about the impact of the overvalued official
exchange rate on exports and, in addition to a number of recently announced
incentives to stimulate exports, is considering other measures as part of a
stabilization program being negotiated with the IMF. It has also purchased
new forest cutting and transport equipment and has given contracts to foreign
concerns to cut, ship and market timber over the next five years with a view
to increasing wood exports.
9.        The outlook for 1978 is, however, clouded by a severe drought in the
1977 planting season, which has reduced the current rice crop by an estimated
25% and, unless emergency food aid is disbursed in time, the country is likely
to run out of rice by mid-1978. The financial situation, on the other hand,
is expected to improve considerably as the Government intends to balance the
budget over the next two years by cutting military and other administrative
expenditures, reforming the tax system and requiring state enterprises to
increase their contribution to the state budget.
Structural Problems of the Economy
10.       With an estimated per capita income of about $90, Laos is one of the
least developed nations in the world. The bulk of the population has incomes
below absolute poverty levels. The country is landlocked, sparsely populated



- 4 -
and deficient in food, basic needs and skilled manpower and, despite being
rich in timber and unexploited mineral resources, it faces serious obstacles
to reconstruction and development after nearly three decades of war. In the
rural areas, the war damaged some of the most productive agricultural lands
and most of the existing infrastructure, killed tens of thousands of draft
animals, caused the displacement of 500,000-700,000 persons (about a quarter
of the population), and mobilized a high percentage of the labor force into
the armed forces. Moreover, during the past two decades, public investments
to increase productivity have been negligible and agricultural production has
not kept pace with population growth. Consequently, Laos has a serious
foodgrain shortage, regularly importing about 100,000 tons of rice per annum
or about 15% of its total requirement and about 30% of the requirement in the
Vientiane Province, which is the principal beneficiary of imports. During
the war, economic activity in the urban areas was almost exclusively geared
to servicing the needs of the large expatriate community, the small wealthy
section of the Lao population and the Royal Lao army. The services sector
accounted for about half of GNP, a disproportionately large share for a
country where the bulk of the population derives its income from agriculture.
The major source of urban income was foreign aid, which, until mid-1975, had
enabled the urban population to enjoy an artificial prosperity, substantially
above the standard that could have been supported by the country's internal
output and capacity to import. Consequently, except for a few sawmills
and wood processing factories producing for export, most industries produce
simple consumer goods and nearly all of nonfood consumption needs of towns-
people have to be imported.
11.       The Lao economy consumes considerably more than it produces and is
heavily dependent on external assistance for its survival. In the early
1970s, recorded imports in the former Vientiane zone, which were consumed
primarily by the urban population, amounted to about $100 per urban inhabitant -
a very high level for a country with a per capita income of only $90. In
the same period, recorded exports, mainly timber and tin, covered only about
a tenth of recorded merchandise imports in the former Vientiane zone, and
the current account deficit, which averaged about a quarter of the estimated
GNP, was financed entirely by bilateral aid programs and FEOF. Moreover,
because of the country's limited financial resources, more than 80% of public
expenditures were covered by direct foreign support of the budget and taxes
on foreign aid financed imports; together these sources played a key role
in maintaining financial stability for a decade. At its peak in the early
1970s, foreign economic assistance was equivalent to about $40 per capita
p.a. Because this assistance primarily financed urban consumption and
sizable capital exports, it did little to improve the productive capacity of
the country or develop exports. Although since mid-1975 imports have been
cut drastically to essentials, exports at present cover only about a fifth
of imports. Similarly, nearly half the country's budgetary expenditures are
currently covered by foreign aid.
Government's Development Objectives
12.       In its policy statements, the Government has indicated that its aim
is to restructure the economy along socialist lines and to develop it by
relying, as far as possible, on the country's own resources, and to guide the



country step by step towards socialism; the socialism that will emerge is
likely to be distinctly Lao. Although the precise definition of the shape
of the future economic management system and the details of the organization
of production have not yet been disclosed, the broad outlines are, neverthe-
less, gradually emerging. The change will clearly be in the direction of a
centrally planned economy; nevertheless, the private sector is likely to
retain a minor role.
13.       In the agricultural sector, the Government intends to promote
the principles of joint farming and to control the marketing of basic food
and export products. The authorities have already begun experimenting with
a number of alternative arrangements, including cooperatives and state
farms, and are establishing a state marketing system which will initially
procure and sell only rice. In the industrial sector, the Government's policy
statement calls for state ownership of all basic industries. Private enter-
prise in other industries will be allowed but closely regulated. The Govern-
ment has also indicated that it does not intend to nationalize enterprises
owned by foreigners or Laotians who cooperate with the State. Thus far,
except for the assets of those who have left the country, very few of the
existing industries have been totally nationalized; the Government is currently
negotiating a compensation package for the foreign-owned assets of the Lao
Brewery and the Banque de l'Indochine, both of which were nationalized in
1975. In addition, the Government has taken over the major means of communi-
cation and transport as well as foreign trade and has nationalized all
banks, merging them into the National Bank of Laos.
14.       Preparation of a three-year development plan has begun but is only
at the basic data collection stage. On the basis of policy statements and
programs announced thus far, the Government's principal development objective
is self-sufficiency in food. In view of the mountainous geography of much of
the country and the transport constraint in distributing food supplies, each
province would have to become self-sufficient. Development plans are expected
to provide a framework for investment expenditures that addresses the priority
needs of the country, namely, increasing agricultural production and export
earnings. In agriculture, since the resettlement of displaced persons on
abandoned farmland has now been largely completed, priority will be given
to rehabilitation and development of small-scale irrigation schemes, develop-
ment of livestock and fisheries, land improvement and on-farm development
to raise the productivity of resettled land, and expansion of exports; these
priorities are in line with those identified in the 1975 economic report on Laos.
Thereafter, resettlement of shifting cultivators on permanent farms, develop-
ment of larger irrigation schemes and support services will be emphasized.
In addition, agricultural production will be diversified to produce raw
materials (maize, cotton, etc.) for agro-industries and arabica coffee for
export. In the 1977 budget, about a quarter of development expenditures has
been allocated to agriculture, in particular for rehabilitation and expansion
of irrigation works; the Government intends to increase agriculture's share
of development outlays in 1978.
15.       In the industrial sector, the immediate task is that of rehabilitat-
ing existing factories. Thereafter, industrialization will be closely linked
to agriculture and forestry, and priority will be given to agro-industries,



- 6 -
import substituting consumer goods industries and wood processing industries.
Exploitation of mineral resources (potash and iron) and establishment of
export-oriented enterprises will be pursued vigorously with the help of
foreign assistance. Finally, in view of the uncertainties associated with
reliance on one route (through Thailand) to the sea, the Government also plans
to establish, as soon as possible, alternative links to the sea through the
ports of Danang and Vinh in Viet Nam.
Development Problems and Prospects
16.       A major effort would be required to achieve the country's develop-
ment objectives. Although Laos has good agricultural potential, achieving
the goal of self-sufficiency in food is attainable by the mid-1980s at the
earliest and only if rice production grows by around 4% annually; this,
however, will require major investments in irrigation, on-farm development
and other infrastructure to improve marketing and distribution. With timely
preparation and implementation of investment projects, particularly in
irrigation, a 2-3% annual improvement in yields is within reach as is the
potential to expand cropped area by 1-2% a year. However, given the limited
number of trained cadres, the country will experience difficulties in preparing
and implementing the required development projects. Therefore, Laos will
require substantial technical assistance to help the Government in preparing
an investment program. The authorities are seeking this assistance on grant
terms from bilateral and multilateral donors to help prepare projects for
foreign financing. To this end, a recently completed study by consultants
from Japan, financed by UNDP and executed by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), has identified a number of projects in the Vientiane Plain; but more
work is required to prepare these and to identify additional projects,
particularly in other parts of the country.
17.       Even with improved management and timely preparation, implementation
of investment projects needed to increase agricultural production and develop
industry is likely to encounter serious resource constraints. Laos' savings
potential is limited by the low per capita income level. Although the author-
ities are determined to restore fiscal discipline by raising revenues and
streamlining expenditures, for a number of reasons it will be difficult to
increase public savings - which are negative at present - in the foreseeable
future. First, in view of the low level of economic activity, the scope for
further tax measures, other than the recently instituted tax on agricultural
production, is limited over the next three to five years. Second, reducing
current expenditures, however desirable to create financial stability in the
short run, cannot be pushed very far in the long run, since increased current
expenditures will be required for development-related activities, such as
maintenance of irrigation works and rural infrastructure, and improvement of
education and health facilities. Therefore, even with relatively good fiscal
performance, public savings' contribution to finance development projects will
be negligible in the immediate future and remain at best modest in the 1980s.
18.       Availability of foreign exchange will be another major constraint
on development. Despite the considerable potential for hydroelectric,
timber and mineral exports, Laos will be unable to earn the foreign
exchange required to finance its medium-term import requirements. One



- 7 -
reason for this is that economic recovery and development of industries will
increase the demand for power and thereby limit expansion of power exports
in the 1980s to about four times the present levels. Second, although with
existing infrastructure, equipment and exploitation techniques the volume of
timber exports could easily be increased tenfc-d over average official levels
in 1976/77, expansion beyond that would require a nationwide forestry survey,
considerable investment in infrastructure and processing equipment, and more
rational exploitation techniques. Third, mineral exploitation is just
beginning and will take considerable capital and time to reach significant
proportions, possibly in the 1980s. Because domestic resources and the
country's capacity to import are quite inadequate for the needed development
effort, Laos will have to rely on substantial external assistance - nearly
all from official sources - to finance required investments over the next
five to ten years. Given the country's poverty and difficult financial and
balance of payments situation, external aid should be on the softest possible
terms including, in the first few years, commodity aid or cash grants to
finance imports of food and basic necessities and to stabilize the budget;
assistance will also be needed to finance nearly all of the local currency
costs, as well as foreign exchange requirements of projects.
Balance of Payments and External Assistance Requirements
19.       Laos' balance of payments has come under considerable pressure
since 1975, because of low export earnings and a sharp drop in external
assistance.  Recorded merchandise export earnings, after a decline in 19'/
because of internal and external factors, have recently improved. Recorded
merchandise imports, which had reached a record high in 1974, have since
fallen considerably, reflecting lower real urban incomes as well as substan-
tial cuts in nonessential imports. Nevertheless, food products, including
about 100,000 tons of rice, represent nearly half the annual import bill.
The current account deficit, which declined from an estimated annual average
of about $70 million in 1972-74 for the former Vientiane zone to about $50 mil-
lion in 1976 for the whole country, was only partially covered by foreign
grants and commodity aid in the period 1975/76. Estimated foreign economic
assistance for the whole country in this period averaged about $45 million
p.a. or less than half the average levels obtained in 1972-74 by the Vientiane
zone alone. Since mid-1975, aid from convertible currency areas (except
Sweden, Netherlands, West Germany and Japan) has declined sharply, while aid
from nonconvertible currency areas, primarily in the form of commodities, has
increased considerably, rising from negligible amounts in 1972-74 to an
estimated third of all foreign economic assistance in 1975/76. Because of
the sharp drop in total foreign assistance, the estimated overall balance of
recorded payments has moved from nearly a $15 million average surplus - most
of which financed unrecorded imports and capital exports - in 1972-74 to a
$4 million average deficit in 1975/76. To finance these deficits, Laos drew
about $7.5 million from the IMF's Compensatory Financing Facility and used
nearly $1 million of its foreign exchange reserves. Official reserves
declined by an additional $5 million in the first ten months of 1977 and
stood at around $7 million at the end of October 1977, or about a month of
projected 1978 merchandise imports.



- 8 -
20.       The balance of payments situation in 1977 and the outlook for 1978
are no more favorable than in the past two years. The current account
deficit is estimated at about $60 million in 1977 and projected to be even
higher in 1978 because rice import requirements are expected to double to
about 200,000 tons due to this year's drought. Based on current commitment
levels, expected disbursements of commodity aid from nonconvertible currency
areas combined with grants, credits and project aid from other bilateral
and multilateral sources are unlikely to cover the projected current account
deficits and the overall annual deficit is expected to average about $7 mil-
lion in 1977/78. The Government has put out an appeal for emergency food
aid through the UN and is negotiating the use of resources in the first
credit tranche and a Trust Fund loan from the IMF.
21.       The large size of the current account deficit in 1972-77 (estimated
at a quarter of GNP) indicates the fundamental problem facing the economy,
namely, its inability to produce enough to meet the population's needs.
Despite the potential to expand export earnings substantially and reduce
food imports, rising import levels required to finance reconstruction and
development projects will lead to a growing external resource gap for at
least the next five years. Because details of the Government's investment
program are not yet available, it is impossible to estimate the size of the
external resource gap with any degree of confidence. Nevertheless, if an
investment program of a reasonable size is to be implemented, annual trade
deficits averaging about $75 million over the next decade are in prospect.
Because service transactions are relatively small, the trade deficits roughly
indicate the foreign assistance requirements. Cash grants and credits and
commodity aid would help increase supplies, stabilize prices, raise revenues
and provide noninflationary financing of budget deficits. Grants and credits
on concessional terms would also be required to finance development projects.
The Government is seeking assistance from all sources. It has recently
concluded long-term aid agreements with its major socialist donors and has
received new commitments from Western European countries, Japan and the OPEC
Special Fund. Lately, a number of countries have also made special commitments
in response to the emergency appeal for food. In addition, the Government is
seeking concessional aid from international organizations such as IDA, the ADB
and the UN group. Laos' external debt position is not serious. Debt outstand-
ing and disbursed, the bulk of which is on soft terms and of long maturity,
amounted to about $53 million at end-September 1977. The debt service ratio,
which in 1977 is estimated at about 17.8% of exports of goods, is expected to
decline in the near future, since current exports are considerably below their
medium-term potential levels and the Government's policy is not to undertake
short-term borrowing on commercial terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
22.       Laos joined the Bank in July 1961 and the Association in October
1963; the proposed credit would be the Bank Group's first operation in the
country.  During the wartime period, the Bank Group's contacts with Laos were



limited. In 1966, at the request of the former Vientiane Government and bilat-
eral donors the Bank agreed to act as administrator for the Nam Ngum Develop-
ment Fund, which was established with grants from Australia, Canada, Denmark,
France, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Thailand and the United States
to help finance the first stage of the Nam Ngum hydroelectric project located
about 60 km north of Vientiane. The project was successfully completed
in 1972 and is now being expanded. Electricity from Nam Ngum is now serving
the Lao grid and being exported to Northeast Thailand. In the period 1972-75,
under the general sponsorship of the Mekong Committee and in cooperation with
the ADB and the UNDP, the Bank helped prepare the Casier Sud and Se Bang Fey
pioneer irrigation projects in Laos. In January 1975, soon after the end of
hostilities and the establishment of the PGNU, the Bank sent an economic
mission to Laos. The mission's report identified priority areas for external
financing, including, inter alia, resettlement of displaced persons, rehabili-
tation and development of small-scale irrigation systems, expansion of agricul-
tural credit and development of integrated foodgrain and cotton production
schemes. In April 1975, the Bank co-sponsored an Aid Meeting on Laos, chaired
by the ADB. The ADB has recently undertaken to review with the Government and
the participants the possibility of holding another meeting. In early 1976,
after the political transition and the establishment of the Republic, the new
Government requested IDA to begin lending operations along the lines discussed
in a preliminary way at the time of the Aid Group meeting; since March 1976 a
number of Bank staff members from Headquarters and the Regional Mission in
Bangkok have visited Vientiane to identify and develop proposals for IDA
assistance.
23.       Our knowledge of the economy and policies of the new Government is
still limited, partly because these policies have not yet been fully elaborated
and partly because few records on the economy were kept during the hostilities
or during the period of political transition (1975/76). The Government's
awareness of the possibilities of Bank Group assistance and the procedures
involved in obtaining it is equally limited. The proposed credit provides
an opportunity for the Government to gain experience in project preparation
and execution and a better understanding of IDA policies and procedures,
thus paving the way to expand cooperation in future. As identification and
appraisal of this first project have progressed and staff contacts with Lao
authorities have developed, an atmosphere of mutual confidence and understand-
ing has been created. While a generally sound basis for IDA operations has
been established, it will take time to build a working relationship which
will enable Laos to achieve the maximum benefits from its membership.
24.       In these circumstances, we plan to continue to improve our knowledge
of the economy and to seek ways for the Bank Group to contribute effectively
to meeting Laos' development needs. In view of the scarcity of skilled
technical cadres, their inexperience in project planning and implementation
as well as other uncertainties, IDA staff will seek priority projects for
financing which are clearly defined, simply designed, easy to implement and
promise fairly immediate returns. Since the most basic problem now facing
the Lao economy is its inadequate food production, we are concentrating on
projects to increase it through integrated schemes of rural development,
including assistance for irrigation, drainage and flood control. Projects
to assist maize and cotton production, forestry development, livestock



- 10 -
(particularly to increase the number of draft animals) and new land settle-
ment schemes may also be developed for IDA financing. We expect the Bank's
Regional Mission in Bangkok to continue to be actively involved in helping
the Government prepare projects for future financing, while also helping to
supervise the proposed first IDA credit. Close supervision of the first
credit will also provide a basis for preparing future projects.
25.       Laos faces unusual difficulties in mounting a sustained development
effort and mobilizing resources to finance productive investments. While
opportunities will be sought to coordinate IDA activities with bilateral
and other multilateral aid programs, both in project preparation and financing,
we should be prepared to make a relatively large commitment of staff time and
finance a high percentage of total project costs, including local cost, if IDA
is to play a meaningful role in Laos' development effort. This investment of
staff time seems justified in view of the fact that Laos is a landlocked
country and among the poorest in the world.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE VIENTIANE PROVINCE
26.       The Lao economy is predominantly agricultural.   Approximately
four fifths of the population derives the bulk of its income from agriculture.
The sector currently accounts for an estimated half of the national product
and nearly two thirds of export earnings (mainly timber and coffee) and
supplies the bulk of the raw material requirements of main industries (saw-
mills, rice mills and wood processing factories). Most agricultural produc-
tion in Laos is by small cultivators, tilling 1.5-2.0 ha of land to which
they have customary settler and cultivation rights. Recently, a number
of cooperatives and state farms have also been established. Most cultivators
produce glutinous rice, the staple food, on an estimated 90% of the area
under cultivation; about one half of the rice produced is grown on lowland
permanent and semipermanent paddy fields and the other half on upland soils,
under slash-and-burn techniques of cultivation. Less than 3% of the paddy
area is irrigated, and double cropping is practiced on only a small portion
of the irrigated area. Paddy production is, therefore, dependent upon wet
season rainfall, which is unreliable and often insufficient. Where pre-
cipitation is inadequate, the returns to fertilizer application are low
and farmers have developed a low input, low risk system of traditional rice
cultivation. Consequently, paddy yields are low, estimated at an average of
1.2 ton/ha on rainfed lowland areas and about 0.8 ton/ha on upland soils.
27.       Although ecological conditions are generally favorable for agricul-
tural production in many regions of the country and the ratio of cultivable
land to population is relatively high, growth in agricultural production
has not kept pace with population increases, and the country cannot produce
all of its major food requirements. As discussed in Part I, the war has
retarded expansion of cultivated area and inhibited improvement in productiv-
ity. Other constraints to agricultural development on a national scale are
the shortage of qualified and experienced staff, inadequate institutions
for extension, farm inputs and credit delivery, the lack of organized and



- 11 -
controlled marketing arrangements, the traditional nature of agricultural
production, the lack of financial resources and feasibility studies upon
which to base development projects, and poor land communications. The
Government is aware of the urgent needs in the agricultural sector and,
in addition to currently allocating a large sh ce of its development expendi-
tures to agriculture, is preparing a medium-term development plan which will
emphasize higher agricultural productivity through increased investments in
the sector (see Part I).
28.       There are many abandoned fields that could be resettled and rehabil-
itated when remaining ordnance from the war - mainly in the interior of the
country - have been cleared. There is also considerable scope for expanding
agricultural production in the longer run. There are vast areas of new
land suitable for cultivation. Moreover, because average crop yields are
low and only a fraction of cultivable area is irrigated, there is considerable
potential to improve yields through construction and rehabilitation of irriga-
tion works and increased supplies of inputs. The many valleys and the plains
of Laos are served by thousands of permanent streams, which can make a signifi-
cant contribution to irrigated agriculture at a very modest cost. Full
advantage should, therefore, be taken of the opportunities to both rehabilitate
and further develop irrigation works. Minor dams or simple pumping structures
and diversion weirs can provide an assured water supply during the wet season
and, in some cases, even the dry season, thus reducing the uncertainty of main
crop production and allowing the cultivation of a second crop. Given the
country's scarce resources, shortage of trained manpower and urgent need
increase food production, small irrigation schemes, which are simple and quick
to build at low per hectare investment costs, are now more appropriate to the
needs of the country than larger, more capital intensive projects. In the
past, a number of small irrigation schemes were constructed in Laos; however,
they were not properly maintained due to difficulties stemming from the
hostilities as well as ineffective management, inadequate supervision and the
lack of budgetary resources. Furthermore, in a few instances canal designs
were inappropriate. Another major factor was the lack of interest and motiva-
tion on the part of the beneficiaries to maintain structures which they viewed
as the property and responsibility of the Government.
The Livestock Subsector and Pig Production
29.       National data on livestock production are lacking.     However, most
farmers raise buffalo as draft animals, and have one or two pigs and 10-20
poultry. Weaning rates are generally low due to low genetic potential, the
poor quality of feed, and widespread occurrence of debilitating diseases. In
addition, during the war thousands of head of livestock, buffalo in particular,
were destroyed. Considerable quantities of pigs, meat and poultry had to be
imported in recent years to satisfy demand. Pig production, which is still
largely traditional, is far below the level required to meet demand, particu-
larly in the urban areas.



- 12 -
The Vientiane Province /1
30.       The Vientiane Province is inhabited by approximately 600,000 people
and is the location of the national capital and the Vientiane Plain. The
Government is initially concentrating its agricultural development projects
in the Vientiane Province, because a fifth of the population lives in the
Province, which is a major food deficit area and accounts for an estimated
third of the country's rice deficit. Yields and the cropping intensity in
the lowland paddy areas are low, due primarily to inadequate water supplies.
There is also a serious shortage of meat. Another reason for concentrating
initial efforts in the Vientiane Province is that the standards of rural
infrastructure and the quality of provincial technical cadres are higher
there than elsewhere, facilitating rapid project implementation and early
realization of benefits. The Province, having the above advantages, is
to be used to obtain administrative experience in irrigation, rice intensifi-
cation and pig production for later replication in other parts of the country.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
31.       The economic mission which visited Laos in 1975 concluded that
increasing food production was the country's main development priority. In
early 1976, the Government requested IDA to assist in preparing and financing
a project to alleviate the constraints to food production in the country. The
project was identified and prepared by Lao Government agencies with assistance
of IDA staff and appraised by an IDA mission in September/October 1976. The
draft staff appraisal report was discussed with the Government in Vientiane
in February/March 1977. Project content and implementation procedures were
further discussed in detail with the Lao Delegation to the Annual Meeting in
September/October 1977, and negotiations were concluded in Vientiane from
November 15 to 18, 1977. The Government delegation was led by Mr. Somphong
Mongkholvilay, Director of Planning, Ministry of Agriculture, assisted by
Messrs. Oudone Voratanouvong, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Chanthavong
Saignasith, National Planning Committee, Bounsuane Thavonekham, Ministry of
Finance and Leuane Sombounkhan, National Bank of Laos. The staff appraisal
report (No. 1593-LA) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
A credit and project summary is provided in the front of this report.
Project Description
32.       The project would help increase rice and meat production in
Vientiane Province through the provision of irrigation and drainage works
to some 5,500 small farmers in the lowland areas of the Province and an
agronomic package of modern inputs to about one third of the farmers.
Small farm activities would be further intensified and diversified through
the provision of a regular supply of weaned piglets for fattening to about
4,500 livestock operators. In addition, the project would strengthen the
/1 See maps IBRD 11559R and 12883 annexed to this report.



- 13 -
planning and implementation capacity of government agencies, and provide
experience which could be transferred later to other provinces.     The
project consists of three components, i.e., small-scale irrigation and
drainage works, rice intensification and pig multiplication.
33.       Small Irrigation and Drainage Works.   This component would improve
water management on about 8,300 ha of permanent paddy land through construc-
tion and rehabilitation of new and existing small irrigation schemes, varying
from 100-300 ha each at an average investment cost of $950 per hectare. About
48 such schemes classified into 5 main types (i.e., new gravity and pump
and 3 gravity rehabilitation schemes) have been selected from about 90 or
so possible schemes already identified in the Province. Design standards
would be similar to those used in IDA-financed irrigation projects elsewhere.
The component would include:
(a) construction of headworks, distribution and drainage facilities
over 9 new and rehabilitation of about 35 existing small gravity
schemes; installation of pumping facilities in 4 paddy growing
areas, and construction of approximately 145 km of roads for
access, operation and maintenance;
(b) procurement of equipment, vehicles and materials;
(c) provision of technical assistance for design and planning of
small irrigation works; and
(d) preparation of a program of small irrigation works for other
priority provinces.
34.       Transplanted paddy has been cultivated in the project area for many
years and most individual paddies are sufficiently level to permit increased
yields from the wet season crop. Significant on-farm development work (such
as land clearing) is, therefore, not required. The distribution systems would
consist of a main canal and secondaries with offtakes and collector drains.
Field distribution would be by means of small pipe offtakes, field ditches
and from plot to plot. The source of water supply for the gravity irrigation
facilities would be the many streams in the project area, where water flow is
sufficient to provide the necessary supplementary irrigation in the wet season
and allow 25-50% cropping in the dry season. Water for the pump irrigation
schemes would be supplied by the Nam Ngum River, which is a reliable source
throughout the year. Detailed surveys to determine the probable water supply
for all schemes, as well as detailed design and final selection of schemes
would be carried out during the project by the Provincial Irrigation Service
as part of preconstruction activities. Assurances were obtained that before
implementation, standard designs and specifications for each of the five
types of schemes and summary data forms for individual schemes based on
technical, agronomic, and economic criteria already agreed with the Association
would be submitted to the Association for approval (Section 3.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
35.       Rice Intensification.   This component comprises rice seed production,
distribution of an agronomic package (seed, fertilizer, pesticides and
insecticides) over some 2,500 ha of land under satisfactory water management,



- 14 -
and research and development of techniques of rice cultivation. Project
works would be located at Salakham and at Hat Dok Keo Research Stations and
on small farms in the Vientiane Plain. These stations have basic facilities
which are underutilized due to a serious shortage of finance, equipment and
trained personnel. This component includes the following works and activities:
(a) additional facilities, equipment, electricity connections, vehicles,
fertilizers, pesticides, and insecticides;
(b) support for a program to increase the annual production of improved
local varieties of rice seed from 8 to 75 tons at full development;
(c) establishment of a revolving fund to finance one year's requirement
of modern inputs to be used in areas where water management is
satisfactory; and a research and development program to demon-
strate improved cultivation techniques to selected farmers; and
(d) technical assistance for rice management.
36.       Pig Multiplication.   This component is designed to increase meat
production in the project area through the establishment of a government
service providing regular supplies of weaned piglets and feed for fatten-
ing. The bulk of these piglets would be purchased by small livestock
operators and some by government cooperatives. The project would increase
present piglet production capacity from 600 p.a. to about 14,400 piglets
at full development. The following works and activities are included:
(a) site preparation, construction of buildings and provision of
water and power supplies for ten pig multiplication units each
with 120 sows;
(b) procurement of equipment, machinery and vehicles;
(c) establishment of a revolving fund to finance one year's supply
of pig feed for livestock fatteners; and
(d) technical assistance for construction design and pig
husbandry.
37.       Feed for the pig multiplication units and subsequent fattening
operations would be a mixture of imported concentrates and locally produced
broken rice, rice bran and maize. To produce the total mixed feed require-
ments at full development (estimated at 6,000 tons a year) would require
approximately 3,000 tons of maize and 1,500 tons of rice bran. This represents
only a small percentage of total rice and maize production in the Vientiane
Plain and adequate supplies will be available. Assurances have been obtained
that Government would implement a program to produce sufficient feed to meet
the requirements of the project (Section 4.03 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). To this effect, the Government has already requested
IDA's assistance in financing a maize production project in the Vientiane
Province. IDA staff have recently visited the country to help identify and
prepare such a project. Existing feed plant facilities and those planned
for completion in 1978 with French assistance will ensure sufficient capacity.



- 15 -
In order to provide adequate incentives to farmers and fattening organizations
to participate in the Government's program to increase meat production and to
provide a satisfactory rate of return on the pig multiplication operations,
assurances were obtained that the Government would set and maintain the prices
of piglets, feed and pig meat at levels which ,uld enable the multiplication
units to earn a rate of return on their operations acceptable to the Associa-
tion and provide an incentive for producers to continue to purchase and fatten
piglets (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The prices
would be set and maintained to achieve a rate of return on the pig multiplica-
tion operations of not less than 10% and the Borrower would review such prices
annually with the Association to ensure that the rate of return as well as
producer incentives are maintained.
38.       The project would benefit from the UNDP pig breeding stock project,
which commenced operations in early 1977. The UNDP project will develop
improved strains of pig breeds and by 1981 would be able to provide the pig
multiplication units with high quality replacement stock and stock for further
expansion of the pig multiplication operations.   Furthermore, under the UNDP
project, a program to train livestock extension officers and farmers in pig
husbandry and fattening would be carried out sufficient for the requirements
of this component.
Project Implementation and Coordination
39.       The project would be implemented by existing government agencie,
within the Ministry of Agriculture. The irrigation and rice intensification
components would be the responsibility of the Directorates of Irrigation and
Agriculture respectively, while the Directorate of Livestock would be respon-
sible for the pig multiplication component. These directorates would imple-
ment the project components either with their own staff or, where appropriate,
through the Provincial Services for Irrigation, Agriculture and Livestock in
Vientiane Province. Where coordination of the activities of the Directorates
of Irrigation and Agriculture is necessary to ensure that works complement
each other, it would be provided by the Director General of Agriculture. For
each of the three project components, the above directorates have appointed
and would maintain a senior, well-qualified officer as Project Director, who
would be responsible for the administration of his respective project activity
(Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Provincial
Irrigation Services, which have adequate O&M field staff in the Vientiane
Province, would be responsible for and would organize the operation and
maintenance of irrigation schemes. Assurances have been obtained that
Government would operate and maintain all works and facilities and road systems
constructed under the project in accordance with sound engineering standards
(Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, not
later than March 1, 1978 covering the period to September 30, 1978, and not
later than July 1 in each subsequent year during the project period, Government
would present an annual work program for comment by the Association, detailing
the proposed activities of the coming year (Section 3.04 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
40.       A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established not later
than six months after the date of the proposed Agreement to monitor and
evaluate the execution of project activities and the socioeconomic effects
of the completed irrigation schemes. The unit will comprise staff drawn
from the Directorate General of Agriculture and the Directorate of Planning
and include an agriculturalist, an economist and a financial specialist who
would report to the Director General (Section 3.08 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Training
41.       To assist project implementation, the Government, UNDP and the Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO) have entered into three agreements dated
December 5, 1977 under which UNDP would provide $1.7 million to finance about
15 man-years of technical assistance, at an average cost of $62,000 per
man-year, and support equipment. Two irrigation specialists, one in design
and construction and another in planning, would be appointed for a period of
four years. The former adviser would be responsible for drawing up specifi-
cations for equipment, for assisting in bid evaluation and for certifying that
work performed by force account had been satisfactorily executed. The latter
adviser would assist the Director of Irrigation in the detailed review and
appraisal of irrigation schemes to be implemented under the project and in
the preparation of a program of small irrigation works for other priority
provinces. One rice management specialist would be appointed for three years
to assist the Director of Agriculture in implementation of the rice intensi-
fication program. Two specialists, one, a short-term consultant in building
design and construction and another in pig husbandry and management for three
years, would be appointed to assist in implementing the pig multiplication
component. A condition of disbursement under each part of the project
except for initial disbursements into the Special Account (see para. 44
below), and purchase of off-the-shelf items would be that the specialists
(except the short-term consultants under the pig component) required for each
part of the project have taken up their positions and are being employed on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Schedule 1, para. 4 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). All advisers would be required to
carry out training programs for Lao staff with particular emphasis on project
preparation and implementation.
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $11.9 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $8.4 million (or 70%). Cost of civil works
is based on quantity estimates made by the appraisal mission and staff of the
Directorate General of Agriculture in the field. Operation and maintenance
of irrigation structures (excluding labor, which will be provided free),
project buildings and equipment during construction, as well as incremental
working capital for pig multiplication units and one year's supply of pig
feed for livestock fatteners and the cost of one year's requirements of an
agronomic package under the rice intensification component are also included.
Unit prices for equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies are based on late
1976 prices prevailing in Vientiane. There would be no taxes or duties on



- 17 -
items imported for the project. Physical contingencies of 15% for civil
works as well as for spare parts at 15% of the cost of vehicles and equipment
are also included. Expected price increases due to inflation amount to about
20% of total project cost and assume the following annual rates of inflation:
for civil works, 9% (1977-79) and 8% (1980-82); for equipment, vehicles and
services, 7.5% (1977-79) and 7% (1980-82). In spite of the current high
inflation rate on the free market, the above international inflation rates
are appropriate because: (a) nearly all equipment and materials would be
procured abroad; (b) local procurement would be through official shops where
prices are stable; (c) official salary levels and wage rates are controlled
and linked to the official price of rice, which is expected to increase at
the same rate as the import parity price at the official exchange rate.
Detailed cost estimates are shown in the credit and project summary which
appears at the front of this report.
43.       The proposed IDA credit of $8.2 million would finance about 69% of
total project costs and would cover $6.7 million (or 80%) of foreign exchange
costs and $1.5 million of local costs of civil works (or 43% of local costs).
UNDP would finance $1.7 million of foreign exchange costs for technical assist-
ance and support equipment. The balance of the costs ($2.0 million) would be
provided by the Government. The Government would channel investment funds
to the Directorates of Irrigation, Livestock and Agriculture through normal
budgetary procedures.
44.       Financing for Start-up Activities.   In order to help relieve the
acute shortage of foreign exchange and ensure the efficient and timely
start-up of project activities, it is proposed that immediately after credit
effectiveness, IDA would make an initial disbursement of $50,000 into a
Special Account that the Government would establish for this purpose at the
Banque de l'Indochine et de Suez in Singapore. From this Account, Government
would be able to finance the foreign exchange costs of small items of
equipment and supplies to facilitate early start-up and preparation by the
implementing agencies for a period of six months from credit effectiveness.
Items eligible for financing from the Special Account were agreed during
negotiations. At the request of the Borrower, IDA would replenish the Account
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures financed from each
preceding replenishment were eligible for financing; total disbursements from
the Credit Account to the Special Account would not exceed $100,000 equivalent.
Assurances were obtained that, should any payments out of the Special Account
be made for ineligible items: (a) the Government would deposit the correspond-
ing amount into the Special Account; or (b) IDA would withhold an equivalent
amount from requests for disbursements against eligible project expenditures.
A condition of credit effectiveness would be that the Special Account has been
established (Sections 2.02(b) to (e), 2.09 and 6.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement.)
Credit Arrangements
45.       To meet the short-term credit requirements of farmers and livestock
operators for the purchase of the agronomic package (fertilizers, rice seeds,
pesticides and insecticides) and pig feed, the Government would establish a



- 18 -
revolving fund in the Credit Department of the National Bank of Laos which would
be relent at 6% interest p.a. to livestock operators participating in the
project. These funds would be provided by the Government to the National Bank
free of interest. Assurances were obtained that Government would make suffi-
cient funds available to the National Bank for these purposes (Section 3.09
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The National Bank would also
provide short-term loans at 6% interest p.a. to the pig multiplication units
to finance the feed requirements of the units in their initial year of
operation. Thereafter, the net income of the units would be sufficient to
finance their feed requirements.
Cost Recovery
46.       The project would raise average net family incomes of beneficiaries by
about 30% at full development. Despite this increase, incomes of most project
beneficiaries would remain below the estimated poverty level (see para. 52
below). The Government's policy is to recover the capital costs as well as the
costs of operation and maintenance of structures and distribution works of the
gravity and pump schemes indirectly through the agricultural production tax,
which is assessed on a progressive scale on the wet season crop. In addition,
those benefiting from pump irrigation would be required to pay directly for the
O&M costs of pumps. The Government will also require beneficiaries to provide
the necessary labor to maintain gravity and pump schemes without cost.
47.       The capital cost of new gravity schemes would average about $850/ha and
of pump schemes about $2,000/ha. Incremental O&M costs would amount to $10/ha
on the gravity schemes, $50/ha on pump schemes using electric motors (the
Government plans to complete a rural electrification program in the project
area by 1980), and $120/ha on pump schemes using diesel engines (in areas
where electricity is unavailable). Assuming a 10% discount rate and a
repayment period of 20 years, full recovery of investment and O&M costs from
beneficiaries would require incremental annual payments of $60/ha, $170/ha
and $240/ha for gravity, electric pump and diesel pump schemes, respectively.
48.       At full project development, average incremental agricultural taxes
would amount to $65/ha on schemes using the agronomic package and $25/ha on
those without the agronomic package (the agronomic package could be applied to
about 20% of the area under gravity schemes and to the total area under pump
schemes). In the case of gravity schemes with and without the agronomic
package, these payments would represent cost recovery and rent recovery
indices of 42-100% and 45-64% respectively. Under electric pump schemes
(with additional payments by beneficiaries equal to the full incremental
cost of O&M of pumps and motors) and diesel pump schemes (with additional
payments by beneficiaries equal to a third of the incremental O&M costs of
pumps and engines), the cost and rent recovery indices would be 40-63% and
64-68% respectively. Cost recovery levels under the project are acceptable
and provide adequate incentive for farmers to participate in the project.
Assurances have been obtained that Government would: (a) recover from the
beneficiaries of irrigation services the cost of operation and maintenance as
well as a reasonable share of the investment costs without impairing farmers'
incentives to increase production; and (b) from time to time review the
adequacy of cost recovery charges with the Association (Section 4.05 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
Procurement
49.       Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials costing about
$4.5 million would be subject to international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with IDA Guidelines.   Irrigation and dra ¾age works in the irrigation
component, and minor irrigation works and other civil works under the rice
intensification component would be executed by force account. Because of
the character, dispersed location and small size of these works, it is
unlikely that foreign contractors would be interested in bidding on these
contracts. The construction of pig buildings and related works would be
executed under contracts awarded after local competitive bidding under pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association, provided, however, that if local
contracting capacity is inadequate, such works would be carried out through
force account. Total expenditures on force account would be about $4.4 mil-
lion. Bids for the supply of fertilizers, insecticides, pigs and pig feed
costing about $1.0 million would command interest from suppliers represented
in neighboring member countries only; these items would be procured by solicit-
ing at least three bids in neighboring countries, most probably Thailand.
Off-the-shelf items costing less than $10,000 each but subject to a maximum of
$200,000 would be procured in Laos or in neighboring countries in accordance
with existing procedures, because the administrative costs involved clearly
outweigh the advantages of international competitive bidding. Existing local
procurement procedures are satisfactory.
Disbursement
50.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over a period of five
years against:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of directly imported equipment,
vehicles, construction material, fertilizer, insecticides, pesti-
cides, feed and pigs or 75% of local expenditures, if these items
are procured locally; and
(b) 36% of construction costs, including operating costs and expendi-
tures for local staff, of irrigation and drainage works, rice
intensification works, and pig buildings and associated works.
Application for disbursements under (a) above and for works carried out by
contractors would be fully documented, while those for force account work
would be supported by certificates of expenditures certified by the Project
Director, documents for which would not be submitted for review, but would
be retained by the Borrower and be available for inspection by the Associa-
tion during project supervision.
Accounts and Audits
51.       Each implementing agency would maintain a separate project account
for the project component for which it is responsible. In addition, the ten
pig multiplication units would keep separate accounts and operate as individual
cost centers. The accounts of all public agencies are audited by State Audi-
tors; project accounts would be audited annually and audited financial state-
ments together with the auditor's comments would be sent to the Association



- 20 -
within four months of the close of each financial year (Section 4.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Association has provided the Borrower
with pro forma accounts and audit guidelines; supervision missions would work
closely with the Lao authorities to improve the quality of audits, if necessary.
Economic Justification and Benefits
52.       The project would directly benefit an estimated 10,000 rural
families whose incomes are among the lowest in the world. Net farm incomes
in the project area are estimated at about $270 per family (or $45 per
capita) of which about $175 per family (or $30 per capita) is in net paddy
income. Thus, the bulk of the rural population has incomes below the
estimated poverty level ($350 per family, which is comparable to poverty
levels in Northeast Thailand under similar farming conditions). At current
farm-gate prices, the irrigation and rice intensification components of the
project would raise net paddy incomes of about 5,500 families by $70-240 per
family ($10-40 per capita) depending on whether they benefit from gravity
irrigation with or without an agronomic package or pump irrigation. Initially,
it is estimated that about 1,600 farmers would use the agronomic package.
Eventually, however, through low cost postproject activities, most of the
remaining 3,900 farmers are also expected to receive the agronomic package.
Thus, the project would raise the incomes of nearly 5,500 families by about
90% to above poverty levels. In addition, project activities under the pig
component would increase the net farm incomes of about 4,500 pig producers
fattening two to three piglets each year by about $35-50 per family.
53.       Aside from raising farm incomes, the project would contribute signi-
ficantly towards Government's objectives of self-sufficiency in food production,
improved nutrition and meeting the basic needs of the population. The caloric
intake of the population is generally below the minimum recommended levels and
the diet is seriously deficient in protein content, primarily due to the
serious shortages of pork meat, the main source of protein in the local diet.
At full development, the incremental rice production (about 9,500 tons p.a.),
resulting from the irrigation and rice intensification components of the
project, would meet about 30% of Vientiane Province's present annual rice
deficit. In addition, by 1985, the pig component of the project would meet
nearly 70% of the pork requirements of the city of Vientiane, the main market
for pork in the Province.
54.       The project would also yield high economic returns.    The estimated
economic rate of return for the whole project is 25%. The estimated economic
rate of return of the irrigation component is 29%; on some of the rehabilita-
tion schemes the rate of return is as high as 50%. In addition, no irriga-
tion schemes would be accepted for inclusion in the project unless a technical
and economic evaluation prior to implementation indicates an expected rate of
return of not less than 12%. The financial rate of return on the pig multiplica-
tion units is estimated at 15%, while the economic rate of return for the
integrated pig multiplication and fattening operation is about 24%. Sensi-
tivity analyses have been performed on the above rates of return and indicate
that they are marginally sensitive to higher investment costs and lower
levels of benefits.



- 21 -
55.       The project has substantial benefits in addition to those described
above. Construction activities under the irrigation and drainage and pig
multiplication components of the project would create off-season employment
for farmers and laborers and provide on-the-job training in project preparation,
appraisal and construction of irrigation works for headquarters staff and field
teams set up for the project; these staff would form the core personnel for
later projects. Moreover, under the pig component, further benefits to farmers
would arise from the organization of programs to expand production of local
inputs required to produce mixed feed. Finally, at full development, the
project would result in annual foreign exchange savings of about $1.5 million.
Risks
56.       Since the project would be the Bank Group's first operation in Laos
there are inherent risks and uncertainties. Although a number of technical,
organizational, management, implementation and financing arrangements for the
project will be tested under field conditions in Laos for the first time, they
do not differ markedly from arrangements which the Bank Group has applied
successfully in its lending operations elsewhere. To the extent possible
arrangements have been included in the project which should minimize these
risks and uncertainties. First, yields for improved cultivation practices as
well as pig multiplication projections have been conservatively estimated.
Second, designs for civil works are simple and the Association staff will
review and approve designs and specifications prior to implementation. Third,
the project does not introduce new organizational arrangments but rather will
strengthen the implementation capacity of existing, although recently reorga-
nized, agencies through technical assistance. Finally, project costs have been
based on the conservative assumption that diesel engines rather than electric
pumps would be installed in pumping schemes and that labor would be paid,
although the Government has indicated that it will require beneficiaries to
contribute labor at no cost.
57.       In addition, because Laos is a landlocked country, exogenous
factors could have adverse implications for the project. Trade restrictions
by and border disputes with neighboring countries could interrupt the normal
inflow of imported goods required under the project and thus delay project
implementation. Government plans to open alternative links to the sea as
soon as possible, but these are not likely to materialize before the early
1980s. Past experience indicates that while trade may be interrupted from
time to time, these interruptions are of short duration and should not
jeopardize the long-term benefits of the proposed project.
Environmental Impact
58.       The project area is confined almost entirely to existing rice lands.
Schistosomiasis is not a problem in the area. The improved water management
which would be achieved by the project in the lowlands would reduce erosion,
siltation and flooding. Intensification of agriculture in the lowlands would
hopefully in due course lead to a reduction in shifting cultivation in the
uplands which is widely practiced and detrimental to soil and water resources.
The catchment areas of the streams and rivers on which small dams would be



- 22 -
constructed are located within the territory of Laos; and since water reservoirs
which will be created under the project will be small, it is unlikely that
there would be an adverse impact on farms and settlements either upstream in the
catchment areas, or downstream. The ten pig multiplication units would occupy
little more than one hectare each, be separated from one another, and would not be
sited close to residential property. Waste products would be entirely disposed
of for fertilizer and fish farming purposes.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Lao People's
Democratic Republic and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed
Development Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
60.       Features of special interest in the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment are listed in Sections II and III, Annex II. In addition, the draft
Development Credit Agreement provides: (a) as an additional condition of
effectiveness that the Special Account has been opened (Section 6.01); and
(b) as a condition of disbursement of proceeds of the proposed credit under
each part of the project, except for the sum of $200,000 required to finance
off-the-shelf items including start-up activity under the project, that the
advisers provided for each part of the project under technical assistance
arrangements between the Government and UNDP have assumed their positions in
the project area (para. 4 of Schedule 1).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 14, 1977
Washington, D.C.



LAO PEOPLE'S                                                             ANNEX I
DEM. REP.         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                         Page 1 of 3 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                        LAO PEOPLE'S                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      236.8                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      17.6                      1960      1970   ESTIMATE            BURMA         MALI       MALAYSIA***
ONP PER CAPITA (USS)                    60.0**    70.0**    90.0**             70.0*         70.0*        440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR  MILLION)           2.3       3.0       3.3/a             27.0           5.1          10.8
PER SQUARE KM.                      10.0      13.0      14.0 a             40.0           4.0          33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     131.0      171.0     193.0 a            253.0          12.0         185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)        44.8      44.5      44.6               41.3          49.6          42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         23.7      22.7      22.8               19.0          27.8          12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)                                                 .        120.0           40.8/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)     40.4       40.4      40:4               47.5          37.2          56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..       3.0       3.0                2.7           3.3          5.
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)              ..       2.7       2.5                2.2           2.2           2.9
TOTAL27                                                  25222229
URBAN                                 *-        *-       2.5                3.7           4.3           3.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           ..      15.0      15.0               19.9          12.1          26.9
AGE STRUCTUR7 (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                     41.1       41.7      42.1               40.0         49.1           44.7/a
15 TO 64 YEARS                     56.5       55.7      55.2               57.0         49.3           52.1/a
65 YEARS AND OVER                    2.4       2.6       2.7                3.0           N-°           3.27ia
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIC                   0.8       0.8       0.8                0.8           1.0           0.9/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.8/a      0.9/a     1.0 /b             1.1/a        0.9/a          1.6/a
FAMILY PLANIJING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ..        ..        ..                 ..            *-         222.2/a
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            .2 .-               .2 ..                            *-           8.0/a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       1300.0/b 1500.0/b 1600.0              10920.0        2800.0         3600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)       83.1      78.8      85.0                70.0         91.0           49.5
UNEMPrLOED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           ..        ..        .M                 ..            ..           7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             *-        ..        ..                 ..           ..           28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..2.
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                        *        *-                 *-           *-           56.0
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                                             511.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             .
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
__ -- _  _  __  _  _  __  _  _  _ _  _ 
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          38000.0/c    16540.0   21570.0           8970.0      .41490.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      4530.0    3480.0           7540.0/b       3860.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED        2400.0/c     1180.0    1150.0           1200.0        1390.0/b        270.0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)       81.0         95.0      93.0            101.0           92.0         110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)            39.0         46.0      49.0             49.0           69.0          49.0/b
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                                               13.0/c         23.0/c        20.0/b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             ..          ..         ..               ..            ..            5.5
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     25.0         54.0      57.0/c          111.0           20.0          89.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    1.0          4.0       5. o7           21.0            3.0          34.0/a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                         -                         10.0           12.0          13.0/a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      *-        14.0      11.0/c            0.8          40.0            3.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)              20.0           ..        ..                ..                        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                *-          *          *                *-            *             2.3/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                                     65./ac
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..          ..        ..               ..             ..          43.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    ..          ..        ..               ..             ..          30.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU PoP)          ..        17.0      38.0             15.0           12.0          41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           ..         4.0       4.0              1.0            1.0          27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           6.0        18.0      26.0             22.0           11.0         382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)AND4                                 0               0.60 N                        4.
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE-------                                        -------------40



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 Pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to amy year berwee 1959 aod 1961. for 1970 between 1969 sod 1970, and for Mont Recent Entimare between
1973 and 1975.
IsGP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
N0 atiosal. accounts are not com piled In Lao FDR; figures are staff estimate..
0*Malaysia baa been selected as as objective cotunr     because Lao FOR'S development can reas,onably be .  ess..red against that of Maiaysia, a Southeast
Asia country which has moved from as agrica1ture - based ecosomy to semi-industrial econom.y and sacceeded in providing an       adequate level of welfare.
LAO PEOPLE'S    1960    Ia  Ratio of popalatios under 15 and 65 and over to total economically active population,         /b  fcro.omicAlly active population;
OEM. REl'.                  /c  1962
1970    Ia   Ratio of popalatiom ander 15 sod 65 and over to total econom.ically active population;       lb  Iconomisaily active population.
MOlT RECENT ESTIMATE:     Is  1976;     lb  Ratio of Population midst 15 sod 65 and over to total labor force;        Ic  1972.
BURMA           1970    I   Ratio of populatiom under 15 sod 65 and over to total labor force;        lb  Personnel in government services only;
/c 1964-66.
MALI            1970    /   Ratio of popalation under 15 and 65 sand over to total labor force;       lb  Government hospital establishenets;
Ic 1964-66.
MALAYSIA        1970    I   Peninsoular Malaysia;     /b  1964-66;    Ic   Piped water inside.
RIl, December 6, 1977
DEPINITONI OF SOCIAL IBDICATOB
Land Ares I thou Ies2)                                                                 Posulatio  per mursia n"reom - Papulatim  divided by nmbner of practicing
Total -Teotl surface area comprising land area end island waters,                       male and female graduate nurses, 'trained" or 'certified" morass, end
Ati.-Most recant estimate of agricoltural ares oaed temporarily or perma-           auxiliary perssnmel. with training or aspecinne..
mently foe crops, pastures, market & kitchen garden  er to lIe fall.,.               Ppuol.tism car hospital bed - Pepuletion divided by combat of bespica1 beds
.avilable in public end private general and epecialised haspital end
GNP net capita f(US$) - ON  par capit.a.etimates at current market prices,               rahbhilitetim centers; ancludes nursing homas and setabliahmants for
calculated by smea con-raris  method aso W-e1d Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);            custndia1 and preventive crar.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                           Per ..nita supply of calories CT of resuirements) - Computed frem energy
eqoivalemt sf mat food supplifa available In ceuntry per capita par day;
Papulation and vital statistic!,                                                         available supplies comprise dosestic production, Imports Iess esParts, end
Pseulation (md-rea million)     As of July first:  if nor availeble, aver.ag            changes in stock; met supplies eaclude animal feed, seads, quantities uoed
of tw  snd-yeae aetmautas; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                   in food preoss.ing and lessee Is distribution; -squiramsnts uses eaci-etd
by PAO base.d on phyislegice1 mesds for nsomal activity and health censid-
Population density -per uasore he - Mid-year population per Square kileater              acing enviromeantal temperature, body weights, age and asa  distributions of
(100 hectaree) sof toral area.                                                        populatiss, and sl11aing 101 far waste at houseahold level.
POVulation density   pemr square he of acrie, lend - Computed as above for             Par capita supply sf portaim (tarea sac day) - Protein content of per capita
egricultura1 land only.                                                                net supply of food per day; net supply of fosod is defined as above; require-
ments for all .-,trie. established by USDA Economic Resea rch Services
Viral statistics                                                                         provide fsr a minimum allme.nca of 60 grams of total protein Per day, end
Crude birth rate per thousand. aversee - Annual live births per thousand of              20 grams of animal sod pulse protein, of which 10 grams should he animal
mid-year population, ten-year aritkmetic averages ending In 1960 and 1970,             protein; these standards ar  loser than thmee of 75 grams of total protein
and five-year -avrage ending is 1975 for meet recent estimate,                         and 23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FA0
Crude death rate per thailsad. averagel - Annua deaths per thousand sf mid-year          In the Third World Pond Sarvey.
population; ta-year arithmetci vavrages ending In 1960 and 1970 and five-            Par canita Protain suppyfo    ansim1 and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for meat recent estimate,                                  deie     rmsisad pulse          ingams par day.
Infant mortality rate C/thou) -Annual deaths of infants under one year of age          Death rata C/thou) aces 1-4 - Annual deaths per thous.and in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                              yeers, to children In this age group; suggasted a. an indicator of
Life eapectancy at birth (yre) -Average number of years of life remaining at             malntrition.
birth; usually five-year avera.ges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
1mg countries.                                                                       Education
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of live daughtrer  a wean sill hear           Adjusted encolinent ra,tio-_primar school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her normal raproduntive period if she experiences prasant ageopeelfit               centaga of primacy scol-g    ;ppltion; imeludee children aged 6-11 yeon
fertility rates ; usually five-year averag-esnading in 1960, 1970 and 1975             but adjusted for different lengths of primacy education; for coutries with
for developing countries.                                                              universal aducation, enrollment may enceed 100% since soea pupils ore belou
Ppoplationamd rateth    t)1;-total - Compound -nmua grouth rates of mid-year             or abova the official school age.
popuatio fec195060  19070 end 1970-75.                                          Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Compared as shove; secondary
Population arqth rate it) - urban - Conputed like grweth rate of total                   eduction requires at least four years of approved primacy instrution,
population; different definition, of urban .area  ey effect comparability of           provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data among countries,                                                                  of 12 to 17 year  of age; escreepodanc.. cou rses are gene.rally secluded.
Urbam population Cit of total) - Ratio of urban, to total population,; different        ears of echoplmns provided if int an  eod levels) - Total year     of
definitions of urban aroea may affect comparability of data among countries.           schooling; at secondary level,I voatonl      tnstrution may ha partially or
Ate structure (percent) - Children (U-li years), working-age (15-64 years),            Voosti0onl enrollentr CI of secondary) - Vonationa  Institutions include
and retired (65 year  and ovr) as percentages of mid-year population,                  technical, Indus trial or othertprogrea Which operte Independently or as
Ate dependenc.y ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to those             depamtments of sec~ondary institutons.
of ages I) through 64.                                                               Adult literacy rats (%) - Literate adults (eble to read end write) as pe-
Economic dependss..v ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to             restage of total adult population aged 1) years and ever.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Pemily pleonines  - acPtors (cumlative. thou) - Cumulative number of -scptors          Houaing
of birth-control devices under aaspics. of national family pleneing program          Pen- per room (urban) - A-eree nunber of persons per room in uccapied
since in-eption.                                                                       conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings seclude non-psrmannt
F    mily pla-ing - usara ('I of macrooed women).- Pretages of married weman of          structures and unoccupied parts.
child-besting age(15-44 years) who ass birth-control devices to all married          O..spied dwellings without piped water IX,) - Occupied convetional dwellings
wnsis msam  age group.                                                              In urban and rura  areas without inside or outside Piped uster fscilitles
as :percen.tage of all uccupied dwellings.
Emnploymsent                                                                           Acesto electricity C7X of all dwellingts) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active person, including aMed                electricity in living quarters as Percen.t of total dwellings in ache soad
fsrees and unemployed but ..xcioding housewive, students, etc.; definitions            rura  areas.
lein various coutries era not comparble.                                              Rural dwelling conne .cted to electricty  S.   Computed as shov  for rota
Laor force is agriculture It) - Agricultural labor farce (in faring. torestry,          dwellings only.
bunting and fishing) as percentage of ttatl laker farce.
Unonploved Ct of labor focce) - Unemployed are usually defimed as persona who          Conaunetio
ar  able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, remained out        Radio rece.Ivers (par thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcastn
ef a jab, and aseking work f or a specified minimum period not exceeding on            to general public per thoneand of Population; exc ludes eslicensed receivers
week; may not be comparable between countries doe to different definitions              in countries and in Years when registration of radio sets was in effect,
of unemployed smd source of data, e.g., employment office atatitics, sample            data far recent yeasr my not be comparable since most countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance.                                            liceas,ing.
Pseseteer crs (pe   thou pool - Passenger ears comprise motor care aeatisg
Inceao distribution, - Percentage of private incom  (both in cash and kind)              lestaOight Pennr; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
received by richest 51, richeac 205, poorest 201, end poorest 40% of house-            vehicle..
holds.                                                                               Elancrinity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual cea,umption, of induatcial, c.sarcial,
public sod private electricity In kilowtt hours per capita, generally
Diatribstiun of land ownrerhip - Percentages of land ownd by wealthiest 1o%              based on production data, without allowance for losses in grids but alle-
and poorest lOt of land saemen                                                         ieg for Imports and exparts Of electricity.
Nowsprint Chaint per cap) - Per capita .-.u.I cenaumption in kilogream
Health and Nutrition                                                                     estimated from domestic production plus met Imports of newprimt.
Population par physician - Population, divided by numbear of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS LI
ARKA                         POPULATION (1976)                          DENSITY
236,g0o sq ke            3.3 =illion (annual growth tate 2.42)             13 per eq kA
of wich   Urbaa         101
Labor forca 501
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (1976)          GNP PER CAPITA 11976)         LABOR FORCE (1976)
US0300 nillion                          US590                  1.6 =illion
GOVERNMNET FPNANCE (Fisaca Years)
Goveessa-t LgBdast PrPooe               Co...soidtdad Budset Q2
1973   1974   1975    1976 L3  1977 ft    1973       1974       1975
(Billion Kip do Liberrtito)              (Billiao Kip do LiboratEon)
Total Espaoditaras         1.3    1.7      2.2    20     25           3.6        4.4       3.4
Total Rocipte             0.4    0.7      0.6     5     12          0.4         0.7       0.6
Defioit                    0.9    1.0      1.6    15     13           3.2        3.7       2.8
Interest Aemist.a..  /4    0.7    0.9      0.9     9     11           3.0        3.6       2.1
Control Book Barrowing     0.2    0.1      0.7     6      2          0.2         0.1       0.7
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1973     1974      1975     1976    1977 /e
(Billioo Kip dA Liberation outatandiog
end fiscal period)
Money and Qoosi Mosey                               1.22     1.75      5.00     9.10     11.9
Bank Credit to PobOic Sector (net)                  1.00     1.40      4.75     0.40     12.4
Bank Crodit to Private Soctor                       0.21     0.20     0.31      0.20      0.25
(Percentagea or Indoo Nusbors)
Cost of Living Iodeo - Vieotiase /S (1970-100)      197      291       913     2,740     4,900
Annual peortstage ohanges. is:
Cost of Liviog Isdea - Vientiane                      47       214        200       80
Bonk Cr-dit to Pablic Srctor (net)                    40       239         77       47
Bank Credit to Privato Boctor                         40        11         55       25
Money sod Quasi Mosey                                 43       105         02       30
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /6                                                                     MERChANXUSE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1973     1974     1975      1976    1977 eUSE 1                                                   il0lSon        7
(US0 aillios)
Timber and nood products                2.0            40
MNrchandlee (et)                 -52.0    -59.6      50.5    -41.0   -53.0                 Tin-I -7oncoatrato                      1.7            24
Eaporta -5.                                9.5      3.0      9.0     41.0                Coffos                                  1.1            15
IZpots                          57.1     69.1     53.5      50.0    64.0
Seroice   (ot)                   -10.2     -17.     - 8.0      5.5    - 5.0                All other cosdities + olectricity       1.5            21
Receipts                        27.5      20.7      00       3.0     4.0                      Total                              7.1           100
Eoeed1tare                     37.7     30.10      6        8.5     9.8
Cartont Balenoe                  -62.2     -77.3    -58.3    -46.5   -58.0
Capital and Transfers L7          88.0      89.5     52.0     43.0     52.0                EXTERNAL DEBT. SEPTEMBER 30. 1977
Overa11 Bl-oe /8                  25.0      10.0    - 7.0    - 1.3    - 7.0                                                  USC nillion
Chnge    a ReeR  s   -              33     - 20       3.1      2.5      7.0                Pobli Debt, itol. guaraotood         53.2
IMF  orrowing                            -39                   3.8      -                   tngIOtted Privte Dob
Total latatoodiog and Dioburnd
Gross Rosarves (ead year)          10.6     12.6      9.5     12.0      7.2 /9
Petrotean Products Inoorts        10.6      14.0     14.0      5.5      6.0                DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976 /10
1
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                           Poblit Dobt, ioct. guaraotend          17.0
Noog.ar.oteed Peteste Deht
1973 - Jutv 1974 Ill                Jdly 1974 - March 1975                                 Tontga Ortantdig   nd Ditebtr.d
A. US$1.00 - KL 30                    Pro-Jaly ratos applied to
KI.00   - US50.033               restricted goods and troosoo.tloos;                   IBRD/IDA LENDING. (l.t..t   -th)    (Milli.. US$)
B. US01.00 - KL 42                   at the parallel earken race,                                                            IBR1         IDA
ELI.00  - US50.024               US51.00 - about Rip 1,400.                            Outettoding 6 Disborsed
Uodishurnod-                                    -
March 1975 - Jose 30. 1976 /12       Since Jaly 1976                                       Outntooding itol. UodiDbursed
A. US01.00 - KL 37.5                 US01.00 - KL 200
KL 1.00 - US50.027               KL 1.00 - US50.005
B. U001.00 - KL 60
KL 1.00 - US50.017
Li  Aoailablo data is very lieitnd.   Govers=eet finance, trade, -onetary, and debt data for 1973-75 refer to the forser Viesti-ao     .one.
Popua1tion, isbor forte, CNP aod per capita CNP fiEgrea are estimates.     Is Jd.e 1976, the kip (K) was teplaced by Kip do lib6ration (KL)
at a conoerston rate of K 20 - KL 1; alt figores in local ourresoy have bees -o-vert;d to KL equivalsts.
/2  Staff esntiates; iEslodes direct foreign enpenditnres in eappert of gove       nt activitis,    hicbh  ro not rflectd is    he rogulur
govern=est bodgets is 1973-75.
/3  Estimates based os second half aitools; no bhdget was prepared iE the firt half of the year.
L4  For 1973-75:   under badget proper, inoludee FEOF aupport and the foreign eschangs tran.aations tao; under     .onsolidated bodgot includes,
in eddition, finaoeiog of direct eapeoditaree.
/5  Eod of caleedar yeoe indeW ; for 1976 asd 1977, isdicen adjusted ta reflect seart ero infletios as the offical market.
/6  Balance of py=estr .. acounts ar  not co=piled E Laos; table constructed on the basis-of staff estiates and data proided by Lao
oathorities; trade figures limited to official trasRactions only; 1973-75 for the Vientiane Z..o only; 1976-77 for the whole couotry.
L7  Inclodna rosodity aid.
/8  Iooludes errors sod o-idsions.
/9  End October 1977.
/10 Ratio of dsbt -seics    o mopoets of goods.
/11 KL 30/0 applied to aoports. se.n tiports aod mast gover--ent t ranaction.; ton inclusive rote of KL 42/0 applied to all other trtnsacicons.
/12 KL 37.5/0 applied to sane imports, mast gaversn=t tr.ns.ctioo- aod limited traosfest; KL 60/) applied to       rhbandise eoporls and t1
a11 other eonodity imports.
/e Staff estimates.
. ot available
- nil



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 pages
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) IDA staff visited the country on a few occasions between March and
August 1976 to help the Government identify a project for IDA
financing.
(b) Project prepared by Government (Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
and Water Resources), with IDA staff assistance.
(c) Time taken to prepare the project: August-October 1976.
(d) Appraisal mission: October/November 1976.
(e) Completion of negotiations: November 18, 1977.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: March 31, 1977.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
To relieve the shortage of foreign exchange in Laos and ensure the
efficient and timely start-up of project activities, IDA would immediately
after credit effectiveness make an initial disbursement of $50,000 into a
Special Account, which the Borrower will open at the Banque de l'Indochine et
de Suez in Singapore (para. 44).
Section III: Special Credit Conditions
The Government has agreed to:
(a) approve all designs for irrigation works on the basis of criteria
agreed with IDA, and submit standard designs and specifications for
each of the five types of irrigation schemes and summary data forms
for individual schemes to IDA for approval prior to commencement
of construction (para. 34);
(b) implement a program to produce sufficient feed to meet the require-
ments of the project (para. 37);
(c) set and maintain pig production prices at levels which would enable
the pig multiplication units to earn a rate of return on their
operations acceptable to IDA and provide incentives for producers
(para. 37);



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 pages
(d) submit annual project work programs to IDA for approval (para. 39);
(e) establish and maintain a program to monitor and evaluate the project
in accordance with procedures accept-ule to IDA (para. 40);
(f) provide adequate short-term credit to farmers participating in the
project (para. 45);
(g) recover from the beneficiaries of the irrigation schemes of the
project as much of the investment and O&M costs of the irrigation
works constructed under the project as possible, without impairing
producer incentives, and from time to time review the adequacy of
cost recovery charges with the Association (para. 48).






>  |  w_           . |                       I                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 11559R
X               ,  _  5  X \~~~~~~~~~~~0    106°-n               MAY 1977
'  C   l N A     '     _                                                   BURMA  i - 
t -r L                                             c-;,_2                      A
¢          Nong Khav         8\Xi   KHA  UAN1/ ta     X~~~~~~~~~~~~Xi200
,</ THAILAND \2>\ \~~~~~~
ETmmu NAN           OF    TNI
VIEN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Tae j  < N  
LAO PEOPLE'S                                        /    -       -    - 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                        1                 -- 
ELEVATION(Mete,s) tft<
e   ,- ! 0oo   and Over                    6wanr.hkI,t  $iAANk/E      ;?
200 - 999                                           F           1              r
0 0- 199                                           \     9t             > 
o    Major Towns                        ~                           >          /      6
13   Roads                                              v   t/         S.
- Road Under Construction                           V  PKh.n<\   7   eATAN 
+    Airports               }t4- 
ProvinCial Boundaries                     Pk                 XEDON \*  A,> \
Internationol Boundaries                             Ihmesk,       Attp
Not.   All t-ks  ond t-oIs ,ow  sh.w Y-~' 
- KILOMETERS   i cr~>~                              SITHANbON  C-       fAe, 
'14'       MILES~  ~                  C A M B O D I A             n,\ 1g 4,
10J2-      /104 'l6A 






IBRD 12883
104-   06-  C H   NA
22  H I NA                     22'
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                       7AM
VIENTIANE      PROVINCE                    4,oUro~Gz 
PROJECT AREA                          - - U       -0
20Ž3!:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
XO~f,~OflO  Xon-jhoo.gC>  G~?F  of
f ~ ~~~~~~~ ~   ~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    OI K /IVr 
Bc  Hin geup_--                       I   .
/ ~ ~ ~ a                                    4 \ 9 f XI"Pzcd  "OflO  \ KNMMUA -0  °8
_         ,  51vX   ,   w          hbrlJ 6ent eod lis tf/lalei~~~~~~~~~1~o ,  '
~~~~~~~~9    .AA Ar UMa
P on                                                            N,  --'I
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TALN &S )i \
0                                 \S1 IAC  '-H 4 I
16b-,---              -, 3 -0
BonIN                    Rc1 kon  o,M B-k    ffil--
/ Ban Phon Ngain      9,Bornodan Keun      83 \
aBn Nophong
\       )          yBan Dong
B-Bn-Tho-Ngon - _
_>ao\~~ \,
1    ilPoject Area                  .)            8
Aoundary of Vientiane Ploin  4K
IRoads                                        ogKo
-   Provincial Boundaries
i--!internotionol Boundaries       ____
|       $       \      ~~~T H A  I L A N    D
0    5   10  15   20
KILOMETERS
102'30'                                         103-0'
APRIL 1977



