                                   Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                        Report No: ICR2870



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
   (IDA-41570 IDA-44160 IDA-45630 IDA-H2110 TF-54222 TF-57273 TF-99549)

                                       ON A

                                   CREDIT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.2 MILLION
                      (US$ 7.50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                AND A GRANT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.2 MILLION
                      (US$ 7.50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                        AND AN ADDITIONAL CREDIT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION
                      (US $ 6.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                        AND AN ADDITIONAL CREDIT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.8 MILLION
                      (US$ 10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                   FOR THE

          SECOND RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
    IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE RURAL INVESTMENT SERVICES
              PROGRAM (ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LENDING)


                               December 20, 2013

Sustainable Development Department
Ukraine/Belarus/Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 19, 2013)

                        Currency Unit = Moldovan Leu
                              1.00 = US$ 0.078
                            US$ 1.00 = MDL 0.08

          RECIPIENT’S FISCAL YEAR January 1 – December 31
                   FISCAL YEAR July 1 – June 30


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACSA     Agency for Consultancy and Training in Agriculture
AF       Additional Financing
AIPA     Agency for Interventions and Payments in Agriculture
APC      Adaptable Program Credit
CAPMU    Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CLD      Credit Line Directorate
CNFA     Citizen’s Network for Foreign Affairs
DA       Development Agency (NGO)
DFID     Department for International Development
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFSE     European Fund for Southeast Europe
EGPRSP   Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EU       European Union
FAO      UN Food and Agriculture Organization
FI       Financial Intermediary
FM       Financial Management
FY       Fiscal Year
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IA       Impact Assessment
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
JSDF     Japan Social Development Fund
KfW      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, German Development Bank
MAFI     Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
MDL      Moldovan Leu
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
NCFM    National Commission on Financial Markets
NPR     Nominal Protection Rate
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PAR     Portfolio at Risk
PDO     Project Development Objective
PFI     Participating Financial Institution
PNAET   National Program on Youth Economic Empowerment
RAS     Rural Advisory Services
RBD     Rural Business Development
RISP    Rural Investment and Services Project
SCA     Savings and Credit Association
SDR     Special Drawing Right
Sida    Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SMEs    Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises
SP      Service Provider
TA      Technical Assistance
TTL     Task Team Leader
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
USD     United States Dollar




                       Vice President: Laura Tuck
                     Country Director: Qimiao Fan
                      Sector Manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
                 Project Team Leader: Anatol Gobjila
                    ICR Team Leader: Suzy Yoon-Yildiz
                          ICR Author: Jeren Kabayeva
                           MOLDOVA
       SECOND RURAL INVESTMENT & SERVICES PROJECT (RISP II)
   IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE RURAL INVESTMENT SERVICES
           PROGRAM ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LENDING (APL)



                                                      CONTENTS

Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring
  I. Disbursement Profile


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 21
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 47
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 48
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 60
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 61
Annex 10. Revised Key Indicators: .................................................................................. 62
Annex 11. Core Sector Indicators Results ........................................................................ 65
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Rural Investment &
Country:                Moldova                 Project Name:            Services Project (APL
                                                                         #2)
                                                                         IDA-41570,IDA-
                                                                         44160,IDA-
Project ID:             P090673                 L/C/TF Number(s):        45630,IDA-H2110,TF-
                                                                         54222,TF-57273,TF-
                                                                         99549
ICR Date:               11/13/2013              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                         MOLDOVA
Original Total
                        XDR 10.40M              Disbursed Amount:        XDR 20.80M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 20.80M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Swedish International Development Agency (Sida)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/09/2005     Effectiveness:             07/07/2006       07/07/2006
Appraisal:            01/23/2006     Restructuring(s):                           10/05/2011
Approval:             03/28/2006     Restructuring                               04/10/2012
                                     Mid-term Review:           10/15/2008       09/20/2008
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010       06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Highly Satisfactory  Government:         Satisfactory
                                                     Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                           Highly Satisfactory
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                        22
General finance sector                                                  56
General industry and trade sector                                       15
General public administration sector                                     5
Other social services                                                    2


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                 23
Legal institutions for a market economy                                 11
Rural markets                                                           22
Rural non-farm income generation                                        22
Rural services and infrastructure                                       22

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Laura Tuck                           Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Qimiao Fan                           Paul G. Bermingham
Sector Manager:              Dina Umali-Deininger                 Benoit Paul Blarel
Project Team Leader:         Anatol Gobjila                       Pierre Olivier Colleye
ICR Team Leader:             Suzy H. Yoon-Yildiz
ICR Primary Author:          Jeren Kabayeva
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project is the second Phase of a two-phase Rural Investment and Services Program.
The Program objective is to provide long-term support to accelerate agricultural recovery
and growth so that Moldova's agricultural and rural sectors can play their full role in
providing the underpinnings for future income growth and poverty reduction.

Under this overarching objective, the project will strive to continue foster the post-
privatization growth in the agricultural and rural sectors of Moldova by improving access
of farmers and rural entrepreneurs to legal ownership status, know-how, knowledge and
financial services, while building the capacity of the private and public institutions to
ensure the sustainability of the activities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

 (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally          Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target         Completion or
                                                documents)           Values          Target Years
                  Growth in lending to agricultural and rural sectors in the portfolios of financial
Indicator 1 :
                  intermediaries
Value
                  2.14 billion Moldovan                          2.85 billion 5.9 billion
quantitative or                              10 %
                  Lei                                            Moldovan Lei Moldovan Lei
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                 06/30/2010          06/30/2013      05/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of beneficiaries whose income has increased
Value
quantitative or   0%                         N/A                 80%             90.8%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/28/2006                                     06/30/2013      06/10/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of beneficiaries of services (including repeat clients)
Value
(quantitative   300,000                    400,000                           382,500
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/28/2006                   06/30/2013                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        96% of the target has been achieved.
achievement)
                Percentage of revenues of regional and local consultants derived from user fees
Indicator 2 :
                or other sources outside central government's budget
Value
(quantitative   less than 3%               25%                               43.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/28/2006                   06/30/2013                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of businesses created and registered
Value
(quantitative   0                          350                600            1,038
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/28/2006                   06/30/2010         06/30/2013     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of loans disbursed from the credit facility
Value
(quantitative   0                          350                600            737
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/28/2006                   06/30/2010         06/30/2013     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
                Good portfolio quality in the SCAs as measured by portfolio at risk (PAR) for
Indicator 5 :
                more than 30 days
Value
(quantitative   5%                         less than 5%                      2.7%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/28/2006                   06/30/2013                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
                Land re-parceling implemented with participation of at least 30% of the
Indicator 6 :
                population
Value                                                                        40% for pilot 6
(quantitative   0                          30%                               villages, 17% for 40
or Qualitative)                                                              villages
Date achieved 05/14/2009                   07/07/2007                        06/30/2010
Comments        Target met for pilot, but not for expanded program covering 40 villages.
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     The average number of and distance to parcels per household is reduced
Value
(quantitative     0                          30%                                31%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/28/2006                 07/07/2008                         09/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Total factor productivity of agriculture has increased
Value
(quantitative     0                          15%                                Not available
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/28/2006                 07/07/2008                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Data not available.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     The number and size of land transactions are increased
Value
(quantitative     0                          30%                                10%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/28/2006                 07/07/2008                         03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Target underachieved. 10% for 6 pilot villages; data not collected for 40 villages.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Number of rehabilitated hectares irrigated (cumulative)
Value
(quantitative     0 ha                       N/A                 700 ha         3,000 ha
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                                     06/30/2013     12/31/2012
Comments          Target exceeded before project completion. The project provided financing for
(incl. %          26 irrigation sub-projects totaling US$2.8 million, and increased rehabilitation of
achievement)      on-farm irrigated area to 3,000 ha.
Indicator 11 :    Size of investment in irrigation
Value
                                                                 US$1.2
(quantitative     US$ 0                      N/A                                US$2.828 million
                                                                 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                                     06/30/2013     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    Number of beneficiaries on topics related to irrigation
Value
(quantitative     0                          N/A                 35,000         38,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                                     06/30/2013     01/05/2012
Comments          Target exceeded before project completion.
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Adoption rates of drought adaptation agronomics (as % of number of
Indicator 13 :
                 beneficiaries)
Value
(quantitative   0%                        N/A                 30%          30%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                                      06/30/2013   12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved before project completion.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                          IP             Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     10/04/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    1.56
  2     12/14/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    2.42
  3     06/24/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    5.58
  4     12/07/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    7.22
  5     06/25/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    9.62
  6     10/31/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  13.28
  7     06/29/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  16.04
  8     11/20/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  17.29
  9     06/20/2010           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  20.94
 10     05/01/2011           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  24.49
 11     06/27/2011           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  25.07
 12     03/11/2012           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  27.45
 13     06/22/2012           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  30.19
 14     12/30/2012           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  31.97
 15     06/25/2013           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  31.97


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 03/17/2009               S       S          15.65
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      In the early 2000s, the Government of Moldova requested Bank support for a Rural
Investment and Services Program (Program) to address a broad range of issues in the
country’s agriculture sector and to improve rural livelihoods. The request came in the
aftermath of land privatization and restructuring of state-owned and collective farms that resulted
in the emergence of a new class of small, independent farms. RISP (FY02-06) successfully
supported the first phase of the Program by addressing the most immediate needs of the new class
of both private farms and rural businesses—legal ownership, knowledge, know-how, and finance.
This entailed inter alia the creation of new institutions, such as savings and credit associations
(SCAs) and Agency for Consultancy and Training in Agriculture (ACSA). The rationale for the
second phase of the Program was to consolidate these early successes by expanding support to the
growing class of private farmer and rural entrepreneur, while continuing to build the
sustainability of the newly-created institutions.

2.       The Government requested the second phase of the RISP Program in support of its
commitment to reviving agriculture through productivity improvements and ensuring rural
development by creating income-earning opportunities in rural areas. RISP II would address
Government priorities articulated in its Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(EGPRSP) and Moldovan Village Program, including: (i) continuing agricultural sector reform;
(ii) developing non-agricultural activities in rural areas; and (iii) addressing land fragmentation.

3.       By 2005, the country’s economy and political environment had stabilized, creating
favorable conditions for preparing RISP II. At the national level, Moldova was enjoying
strong remittance-driven economic growth (40 percent real GDP growth between 2000 and 2005)
and poverty reduction (fall from 73 to 28.5 percent between 1999 and 2005). Moreover, the
Communist Party’s retention of both the Presidency and Parliament in 2005 elections translated
into a strong and steady policy dialogue with partners, including the European Commission (EC),
resulting in the signing in 2005 of the EU-Moldova Action Plan covering a broad range of
political, economic and social areas. However, these positive advances belied the worsening rural
poverty, which had increased from 35.5 to 42.5 percent between 2003 and 2005.

4.       Rural poverty stemmed from the continued underperformance of agriculture and
the underdeveloped non-farm rural economy. Due to the mostly rural population (nearly 60
percent) and the importance of agriculture 1 to the overall economy (30 percent of GDP),
improving agriculture would be a prerequisite for reducing rural poverty, and sustaining growth
and poverty reduction overall. In the face of the incomplete transition to a market-based
economy, particularly to market-based agriculture, land and farm privatization were necessary but
insufficient conditions to unleash the potential of Moldova’s agriculture sector.




1
    Includes both agricultural production and agro-processing.




                                                             1
5.      Although agriculture’s steep decline had been reversed by 2000, sector performance
continued to be bedeviled by low productivity, prices, and wages, resulting in stagnant
sector growth. Among the factors that affected performance were scarce investments, poor
access to finance, deteriorated infrastructure, vulnerability to natural disasters, and significantly,
administrative interventions distorting market incentives away from producing to Moldova’s
comparative advantage in higher-value products. By 2005, 300,000 small, private farmers, while
occupying only half of agricultural land, were producing 75 percent of total agricultural output
and generating 76 percent of agricultural employment. However, Government continued to direct
subsidized inputs and maintain export restrictions to preserve large, corporate farms producing
lower-value crops for which Moldova had no comparative advantage. All in all, this translated
into farmers paying significantly higher prices for tradable inputs while receiving significantly
lower prices compared to the world market, even for crops of greatest comparative advantage.

6.      Moldova had made impressive achievements in land reform with the introduction of
the National Land Program in 1998-99, but the disappointingly slight growth following
reform led to considerations of “administrative” agricultural land consolidation by the
Government. This would have effectively halted the progress towards more efficient production
and the return to growth observed in the sector. The Bank advocated for the Government to
strengthen land markets as the main tool to allow farms to adjust towards greater productivity and
efficiency, and consider market-based alternatives to administrative land consolidation such as
land re-parceling.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.      The Program’s development objective was to provide long-term support to accelerate
agricultural recovery and growth so that Moldova's agricultural and rural sectors could fulfill their
potential in providing the underpinnings for future income growth and poverty reduction. Under
this overarching objective, the project sought to foster post-privatization growth in the
agricultural and rural sectors of Moldova by improving access of farmers and rural entrepreneurs
to legal ownership status, know-how, knowledge and financial services, while building the
capacity of private and public institutions to ensure the sustainability of the activities.

8.       While RISP (FY02-06) built the foundation for supporting the newly-emerging private
farmer and rural entrepreneur, RISP II (FY06-13) would further enhance service provider
capacity, diversify rural financial and advisory services, increase investment support, and build
the sustainability of the new institutions.

9.      The key performance indicator “Relative increase in productivity in project beneficiaries”
was to be measured through:
        •   Growth in lending to agricultural and rural sectors in the portfolios of financial
            intermediaries;
        •   Percentage of beneficiaries whose income has increased.

10.     The intermediate outcome indicators (as presented in the Project Appraisal Document
were as follows:

Rural Advisory Services (RAS)
• A small rural development unit established and staffed by Ministry of Agriculture and Food
   Industry (MAFI), which receives training and Technical Assistance (TA), to take over
   general technical oversight of the component;



                                                  2
•     Number of beneficiaries of services (including repeat clients).

Rural Business Development (RBD)
• Increased entrepreneurial activity in the project areas and business survival rates;

Rural Finance
• Loans/leases provided by the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) from the credit line;
• The SCA supervisor restructured and fully functioning;
• Sustainability of the SCA system improved;
• Law promoting enabling environment for SCA development passed.

Land Re-parceling Pilots:
• Increased agricultural productivity in six pilot villages compared to the baseline and control
   cases;
• More rapid development of land markets in six pilot villages compared to the baseline and
   control cases.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

11.      In May 2008, as a result of Additional Financing (AF), new intermediate output
indicators were added to track the progress under a new Drought Adaptation Component (see
paragraph 22, Table 1, Annex 10). On May 2009, as a result of AF to scale up Rural Advisory
Services, Rural Business Development, and Rural Finance components, targets were revised for
some indicators (see Table 2, Annex 10). And in October 2011, the project was restructured to
revise indicators related to dropping the Drought Adaptation Component, Sub-Component 1:
Irrigation Finance Services and reallocating financing to the Rural Finance component.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12.      Primary beneficiaries comprised private farmers and rural entrepreneurs of Moldova that
were expected to benefit from rural and business advisory services, training programs, and the
voluntary re-parceling of land plots. The above efforts were meant to improve beneficiaries’
access to financing. Secondary beneficiaries included: PFIs, through TA and long-term lending
to increase the scope of their lending in rural areas; a supervisory agency for the SCA network
through strengthening technical capacity; the national network of RAS through training and
technical support; MAFI, the Cadastre Agency, and local administrations through receiving
international best practice on land re-parceling.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

13.       The approved project components were:

14.     Component 1: Rural Advisory Services (US$4.94m). The component aimed to provide
information, knowledge and know-how to newly established private farmers and rural population.
The purpose of the component was to: (i) provide support and further strengthen and consolidate
the network of private rural advisory service providers established under Phase I, enhance its
focus, efficiency, and sustainability; (ii) help the MAFI develop a vision for the future
development of the public good aspect of RAS in Moldova and translate it into medium-term


                                                   3
policy and initiate the implementation of the emerging policy over the life of the project; and (iii)
build the capacity of the MAFI to gradually assume full responsibility for overall oversight,
coordination and outsourcing of RAS activities implemented by Service Providers (SPs), ACSA
and other entities or donor-funded projects.

15.      Component 2: Rural Business Development Component (US$0.85m). The objective of
the component sought to strengthen the emerging rural private sector. It was envisaged that
component would continue to finance technical assistance to rural entrepreneurs, and provide
operational support for local development agencies (DAs), with the aim to create legally
registered, self and co-owned sustainable rural businesses, which would potentially become
clients of financial institutions.

16.      Component 3: Rural Finance (US$17.77m). The component aimed to: (i) expand the
outreach of the formal financial sector to rural areas, to ensure broader access to investment
financing for farmers and rural entrepreneurs. It was envisaged to promote rural financial
outreach through traditional loans and by expanding the use of leasing, which was a non-
traditional instrument in Moldova’s financial sector; and (b) to restructure the SCAs industry, to
strengthen the delivery of financial services to a large segment of the population which did not
have access to traditional banking services, ensure prudential growth of the industry through
proper management and supervision and structure the industry so that it could become sustainable
in the long term.

17.      Component 4: Land Re-parceling Pilots (US$0.75m). The goal of this component was to
respond to the concerns of Government and others about the fragmentation of agricultural land,
focusing on small peasant farmers (as opposed to larger corporate farms) as its primary target
group. It will do this by facilitating the efficient functioning of land markets in pilot locations
through the implementation of village land re-parceling projects based on international best
practice. The specific objectives of these pilots were to: (i) test the demand for and feasibility of
land re-parceling with small landowners as the primary target group; (ii) use the pilot experience
as the basis for designing a potential national-level approach, including techniques, resource
requirements and legislative framework; and (iii) assess the impact of re-parceling at the local
level, including on land markets, agricultural production, and equity.

18.     Component 5: Project Management (US$0.77m). This component sought to provide
technical and financial support for project management.

1.6 Revised Components

19.     In May 2008, AF in the amount of SDR3.7 million (US$6.0 million equivalent) was
approved to include a new Drought Adaptation Component consisting of: (i) Irrigation Finance
Services; and (ii) Drought Adaptation Advisory Services. These resources were provided for
targeted investments for the rehabilitation of small-scale on-farm irrigation systems, and for the
dissemination of knowledge to farmers on techniques for adaptation to drought. Additionally, a
small allocation was made for additional project management costs related to the management of
the Drought Adaptation Component. The objective of the component was to ensure that farmers
have the resources and knowledge necessary to adapt to and minimize losses from severe weather
phenomena such as drought, in order to ensure the long-term viability of the country’s
agricultural sector.

1.7 Other significant changes



                                                 4
20.     In response to the 2008 global economic downturn and to dampen its potential negative
impact on Moldova’s rural economy, AF of SDR 6.8 million (US$10 million equivalent) was
approved to top up the credit line, which was nearly fully exhausted, and extend agricultural
advisory services as means to lessen the contraction of rural commercial lending. To allow AF
implementation, the closing date was extended from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2012.

21.     In October 2011, the project was restructured to drop the Drought Adaptation Component
and reallocate the associated financing as favorable precipitation levels in 2008-11 resulted in low
demand for investments in on-farm irrigation equipment. IDA financing of US$3.9 million was
reallocated to the Rural Finance Component. In April 2012, a final restructuring was undertaken
to extend the closing date to June 30, 2013 to allow full utilization of financing under the Rural
Finance Component as well as grant resources provided by the Swedish International
Development Cooperation Agency (Sida).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.      Significant analytical work by the World Bank and IMF underpinned the design of the
project. This included the Country Economic Memorandum, Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper,
Financial Sector Assessment, and an extensive series of Agricultural Policy Notes covering inter
alia public expenditures and land policy. This analytical work was also part of the preparation of
the cross-sectoral Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit, which the team effectively leveraged for
RISP II. Thus RISP II benefitted from effective cross-sectoral cooperation, as well as the
program-based approach being applied to Moldova’s portfolio, which helped the team to place
the project activities in the context of the country’s overall development, enhance the quality of
the project design and maximize scarce budgetary resources.

23.      Inspired by the success of RISP I, RISP II sought to expand the outreach of rural
financial advisory services and commercial lending, and most importantly, to ensure the
sustainability of the institutions and service providers. RISP II envisaged transfer of
responsibilities to and capacity building of the Ministries in charge of these activities. The
Program design confirmed to be highly relevant at the entry of RISP II due to a strong demand for
advisory services and long-term financing in the rural sector. The World Bank project turned out
to be the only solution available for rural small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) at a time
that was able to provide bridge financing for the sector to survive until other financial instruments
became available and proved to become sustainable. Lastly, the project activities were also
complimented by related measures which were of primary concern to the Government. These
included (i) strengthening the country’s SCA network by improving its regulatory environment
and building supervision capacity as the network continued to experience considerable growth;
and (ii) launching a series of land re-parceling pilots whose findings were expected to help the
Government in the conceptualization of a strategy or policies on land.

24.     The fourth component on land re-parceling was newly introduced based on the
Agriculture Notes produced to underpin the Bank’s program in Moldova. While the Bank
agreed with the Government that some agricultural land may have been excessively fragmented,
it argued for market-based approaches to promote optimal farm size rather than the
“administrative” land consolidation contemplated by the Government. The Bank undertook a
study of land re-parceling experience internationally, including in other former Soviet republics




                                                 5
such as Lithuania, as the basis for designing a land re-parceling pilot. The success of the pilot led
to its expansion during project implementation.

25.      RISP II was designed to include regular monitoring and evaluation surveys and
beneficiary impact assessments to measure outcomes under each component. This focus on
results was facilitated by a number of factors, including a strong focus on results by Sida and
Bank country management at the time of preparation, and by the strong capacity built under RISP
I to implement these activities effectively by the implementing agencies and CAPMU. These
assessments, which provided quantitative and qualitative information (such as farmer views on
benefits and value-added of various project activities) proved to be instrumental not only for
effective and efficient implementation of project activities, but also their efficacy. The
information was invaluable for enabling the Bank and implementing agency to take corrective
actions to issues/delays that hindered progress as well as to make strategic choices in planning.

26.      RISP II incorporated several key lessons in its design from RISP I activities. These
were: (i) the need to limit policy conditionality or triggers in investment lending operations; (ii)
credit lines, which are likely to make a large number of small sub-loans, need considerable
delegation of fiduciary responsibilities; (iii) if the credit line is to contain a grant portion, the
project should make sure that there is a general consensus about the constraint that the grant is
about to address so that the project can objectively measure its effectiveness; (iv) the lack of
consulting services to help small entrepreneurs prepare and implement business plans and the
lack of long-term credit on the market were among major constraints to rural finance in the
country; (v) Development Agencies should be paid on the principle of a success fee, hence
structuring the component in a way that led to payments based on final outputs, and not lump sum
contracts; and (vi) the long-term sustainability could be ensured only through transferring
responsibilities to the Government Ministries (Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MAFI) as
Implementing Agencies to strengthen their ownership, streamline into the Government’s program
and generate synergies with other related activities of the Government. Finally, there was a need
for ACSA to reduce its reliance on the project funding by applying a sustainable business model
through building partnership with the Government, as well as other donors and development
agencies operating in the country.

27.      Overall, project risks were realistically assessed and mitigated for. Several risks were
considered substantial at entry: (i) Government capacity and resources to take charge of project
implementation, (ii) lack of regulatory environment with respect to land, agricultural prices, trade
policies and expenditures, and (iii) concern over availability of Government’s funding to cover
costs of the RAS Component after the end of the project. These risks did not materialize, largely
due to the team’s persistent efforts in persuading the Government to take appropriate and timely
risk mitigation measures over the project life.

28.      Collaboration with Sida, a key partner in Moldova, in project design/preparation
was most effective. Sida provided grant funds of US$8 million to co-finance technical assistance,
in particular: (i) extension services under the Rural Advisory Service component; (ii) land re-
parceling pilot activities; (iii) strengthening MAFI to manage, monitor and evaluate project
activities; (iv) the Rural Business Development component; (v) strengthening the SCA industry
and its supervision; and (vi) training participating financial intermediaries on environmental
safeguards and new financial products such as leasing. In addition, Sida’s focus on results and
gender influenced project design positively.




                                                 6
2.2 Implementation

29.      Overall, the transition from RISP I (closed on December 31, 2005) to RISP II
(effective in July 2006) was smooth. However, a few bottlenecks arose at project start-up as
described below.

30.      Although quickly resolved, the ACSA Network under the RAS Component faced a
few issues in the beginning of the project due to a brief gap in financing of the Network during
the transition between RISP I and RISP II. The Network was partially able to cover the gap from
an on-going 2-month contract with United States Agency for International Development
(USAID)/Citizen’s Network for Foreign Affairs (CNFA). However, this gap resulted in a
temporary turnover of local and regional consultants in the service providers’ network, with
subsequent increased costs for initial and basic training of new recruits.

31.     The launch of work on the SCA industry under the Rural Finance Component was
delayed for a year pending approval of the new SCA Law. The Law eventually passed
Parliament in July 2007 and the National Commission on Financial Markets was assigned
responsibility providing guidance and enabling the industry’s development.

32.      The launch of the Land Re-Parceling Pilots was delayed for a year and formally
started in October 2007 mainly due to a lack of commitment and cooperation on the part of the
MAFI in ensuring appropriate arrangements for the component implementation. Moreover,
contrary to initially agreed guidelines on the selection of pilot locations, the Communist
Administration continued to advocate the creation of large farms. Significant efforts by the
Government and Bank were needed to overcome these issues.

33.      The project was implemented against a backdrop of natural disaster, global
financial crisis, and protracted political instability, which presented both challenges and
opportunities. The project weathered these challenges well and implemented according to
original plans despite these shocks. Among factors leading to successful implementation were the
comprehensiveness of the project design, commitment and flexibility. Both the Government and
Bank swiftly responded to changing circumstances and emerging needs through such instruments
as AFs and appropriate reallocation of funds for activities within the project’s objectives and
scope, as described below.

34.     The 2007 drought had a catastrophic effect on agriculture with disastrous losses of up
75 percent for major crops such as wheat, maize and sunflower. A new Drought Adaptation
Component was added in response to this unexpected natural calamity. It focused on providing
targeted investments for small-scale on-farm irrigation rehabilitation and the provision of
technical assistance to farmers. Although a subsequent drought in 2012 cut agricultural
production by 22 percent, project funds were already fully committed and almost fully disbursed,
thus a new Emergency Agriculture Support Project was approved by the Bank in March 2013 to
support farmers affected by this natural disaster.

35.      Immediately following the drought of 2007, particularly in 2008, Moldova
experienced considerable rainfall that pushed irrigation down the list of priority
investments for farmers. Consequently, the Irrigation Finance Services sub-component was not
disbursing as originally planned. The Government and the Bank team took a well-timed decision
to restructure this component to make financing available for a broader range of investments by
reallocating funds to the Rural Finance Component.



                                               7
36.      The 2008 global financial crisis negatively affected the PFIs’ balance sheets. With
long-term financing for investments quickly drying up around the world, this translated into
reduced credit resources for Moldovan commercial banks and their rural lending. While all other
project components were being implemented smoothly, the Rural Finance Component was hit
hard as the share of non-performing loans tripled between end-2008 and end-2009, reaching 16.3
percent. In addition, the portfolio of SCAs deteriorated due to the rapid fall of remittances into
the country, challenging NCFM in its new role to manage the emerging crisis in the SCA industry.
There was particular concern that the project’s performance indicator (target of Portfolio at Risk –
30 days:<5%) would not be met. Given that the project’s credit line was already nearly fully
disbursed due to quick implementation, it would not be able to provide the PFIs much needed
liquidity to respond to the ensuing crisis. The Bank thus quickly responded with swift preparation
of AF to scale up the Rural Finance component. This prompt response by the Bank was
significant as neither Government nor any other donor were in a position to step in to provide the
much needed additional resources.

37.      Despite the political turbulence in 2009-12, RISP II continued to implement well,
and facilitated policy dialogue with Government. The failed attempts to elect a President in
2009 and the paralyzing threat of early elections until March 2012 slowed the pace of reforms and
led to political uncertainty. Government counterparts at the national level changed three times
over the project period, and the Bank faced recurrent concerns over hand-over of the project
activities to the Government, as well as building institutional sustainability. Despite these hurdles,
the various governments remained committed to the project throughout and continued to facilitate
successful implementation. In fact, RISP II helped maintain the Bank’s dialogue with every new
government on the longer-term reform agenda for agriculture and rural development.

38.     Following a Mid-Term Review in 2008, an agreement was reached between the
Government and Bank to scale-up activities under the Land Re-parceling Component. Due
to good progress achieved on land re-parceling pilot activities in six villages, the Government
requested to scale-up the pilot to an additional 40 villages and it was agreed to reallocate Sida
funds from the Rural Finance Component to this activity.

39.     Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) Grant: Although not originally included in
RISP II, the project ultimately included a JSDF Grant for the Youth Socio-Economic
Empowerment Program. The JSDF Grant had been orphaned when the IDA operation to which it
was originally attached was dropped mid-stream during preparation. As rules required JSDF
grants to be implemented alongside a regular Bank operation, when the IDA operation was
dropped, the JSDF was left without means for implementation. Thanks to strong implementation
and absorptive capacity of CAPMU and the implementing agencies, and good support by the
Bank team, RISP II was able to seamlessly integrate this additional grant to the project and
maximize their benefits to RISP II beneficiaries. Ultimately, the grant complemented credit line
resources with a 50 percent matching grant for young entrepreneurs, having an unintended but
positive impact on an important vulnerable group—Moldovan youth (see paragraph 86).

40.      Agency for Interventions and Payments in Agriculture (AIPA): At the request of
MAFI, the project supported institutional building measures for AIPA; an activity was not
included in the project’s initial design. AIPA was established in February 2010 at the EU
Commission recommendation and its main goal was to manage the Agricultural Subsidies Fund.
It was financed in the amount of MDL 500 million per year through the state budget resources
and covered around 9,800 investment projects of various agricultural and food processing
business entities. The amount absorbed to support AIPA was US$320,000 and was directed for
staff training and study tours, equipment, furniture, software, field inspection cars, and other


                                                 8
necessary equipment. In addition to the institutional support to AIPA, the project provided
technical assistance in drafting two important laws: (i) one on Producer Groups; and (ii) one on
Principles of Subsidizing in Agriculture.

41.     Strong Government ownership and commitment by each implementing agency were
vital to project success. Numerous government ministries and non-government agencies were
involved in project implementation and their lines of responsibility were clearly drawn and
coordinated well. MAFI was in charge of managing activities under the RAS and Land Re-
Parceling components. ACSA was to deliver extension services by adapting their training
programs and activities to the farmers’ evolving demands. Four DAs--i.e. Alliance for
Cooperation in Agriculture, Center for Consultancy in Business, Center for Rural Development,
and Mobile Expert Group--were involved in the implementation of the RBD Component through
provision of support in formation of viable agribusinesses including business cooperatives,
processing and marketing entities, as well as non-farm rural businesses. Activities under the Rural
Finance Component were coordinated by the Ministry of Finance through the Credit Line
Directorate, and activities under the SCA sub-component were coordinated by the National
Commission on Financial Markets. This joint effort and dedicated commitment not only allowed
for smooth implementation of the mentioned components, but also ensured institutional
sustainability of project activities after closing of the project.

42.     CAPMU, the Project Management Unit for RISP I and a fiduciary agent for RISP
II, ensured a seamless transition between the two phases and was a key cornerstone for
successful project implementation. CAPMU had a well-established track record of
implementation support to the Bank-funded projects. In line with its experience, there were no
issues with its performance throughout the project life. In addition to procurement and financial
management, CAPMU was responsible for coordinating M&E at the project level and two
CAPMU specialists were assigned to coordinate activities under the RAS and RBD Components.
An Environmental Specialist was recruited to oversee environmental aspects of the project.

43.     The successful implementation of RISP II is reflected by the consistent Satisfactory
rating assigned to the project performance in Implementation Status and Results reports
(ISRs). Task Team Leadership changed once over the project period, but the first Task Team
Leader (TTL) remained as part of the project team until the Closing Date. This ensured continuity
and institutional memory on the project by a key team member.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

44.     The project’s M&E system was well-designed and for the most part, effectively
monitored by the Bank team during implementation. The results framework (RF) was
comprehensive in its coverage of all project activities, however, there was a minor shortcoming as
two intermediate outcome indicators under the Land Re-parceling Component were not
monitored, and as a result, end-of-project values were not available at project closing (see
datasheet). The RF was in line with the Bank’s corporate requirements by incorporating core
indicators, which were not formally integrated in the financing agreements, but were monitored
during the project’s life (see Annex 11). There was no need for a baseline survey given the
availability of baseline data from RISP I. The Bank team regularly reviewed progress on results
and reported them in each mission aide memoire. However, the M&E features that stood out were
the impact assessments, conducted mid-term and at the end of the project. They offered key
findings on impacts and enhanced the effectiveness of project management and decision-making
during implementation. The Bank team also closely reviewed the methodologies applied for



                                                9
surveys and impact assessments, providing recommendations for improvement in mission aide
memoires.

45.      One of the strongest aspects of M&E was the use of results, interim surveys and
impact assessments, prepared by each project agency individually for each component, to
make adjustments during implementation. Each implementing agency was in charge of data
collection and monitoring of results and provided quarterly progress reports to CAPMU on their
respective components. This information was not only utilized to track progress but to identify
potential problems/issues as well as success stories. The latter would be used to determine factors
of success that could be replicated. The M&E system thus served as an essential tool to
proactively manage the project, for example, to monitor the credit line portfolio, revise training
materials to better meet beneficiary needs, and track progress in the land re-parceling pilots.

46.     Another factor that contributed to building strong and sustainable M&E was the
provision of TA to the implementing agencies and local M&E companies in applying
modern tools in the “science” of M&E. The TA enhanced capacity to utilize modern statistical
and program evaluation tools. For example, the Agency for Consultancy and Training in
Agriculture utilized ACCESS database software to monitor the Rural Advisory Services
Component. All in all, these efforts resulted in sustained M&E capacity in each implementing
agency beyond the life of the project.

47.     Progress reports provided by project implementing agencies were reviewed and
consolidated by CAPMU in its annual progress reports. Given the complexity of the project’s
M&E, CAPMU would have benefited from having a full-time M&E Specialist. The M&E work
was carried out by a Coordinator of the Rural Business Development Component, and these
additional responsibilities put some pressure on the Coordinator’s regular work routine.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

48.     Environmental Safeguards: RISP II was assigned an environmental category Financial
Intermediary (FI). To ensure that the project met the Bank’s environmental safeguard policies
(OP4.01), an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was updated for RISP II and disclosed in
January 2006, prior to project appraisal. The Bank Environmental Specialist regularly
participated in implementation support missions and no major issues were identified.

49.     Environmental guidelines for the credit line were developed and included as an integral
part of the Rural Investment Guidelines, monitoring sub-project compliance to which was the
responsibility of PFIs. To ensure sub-project compliance with national environmental regulations,
CAPMU hired an environmental specialist to provide guidance on sub-project screening, develop
terms of reference for sub-project review and assessment and review of the environmental
management and monitoring plans submitted during sub-project evaluation. A series of training
sessions was delivered for PFIs, DAs, the Credit Line Directorate and CAPMU.

50.     Social Safeguards: No social safeguards were triggered, but the Bank team included a
Social Development Specialist who monitored the project’s social issues (e.g., youth and gender).

51.      Financial Management (FM): Financial management performance remained
satisfactory throughout project implementation. CAPMU had a well-established track record of
implementing World Bank financed projects. FM staff of CAPMU had also received training.



                                                10
CAPMU maintained accurate accounting records of the project, and quarterly IFRs and annual
audit reports were timely submitted and acceptable to the Bank.

52.     Procurement: Procurement performance was consistently assessed as satisfactory
throughout the life of the project. CAPMU’s procurement specialist was highly experienced,
having worked for CAPMU for 17 years, and was supported by a procurement assistant recruited
for RISP II. Procurement was carried out in compliance with Bank guidelines, in a diligent,
professional and timely manner. Procurement filing was also good with documentation related to
each procurement procedure duly filed and readily available. No major issues were identified by
the Bank in any of the post review missions.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

53.     The Bank’s policy dialogue, conducted in parallel with its support of this project,
significantly contributed to increase attention of the Government to the agricultural sector.
Although no follow-up project has been envisaged for the RISP Program, the Bank continues to
support the financing of the country’s agriculture and rural development through two other
projects - Agricultural Competitiveness Project and Emergency Agriculture Support Project. The
challenges in the sector still exist, and these two new operations would be critical to support this
sector. Besides, the current CPS includes a useful framework to discuss with the Government
further modalities of Bank support.

54.      A number of arrangements were put in place to ensure sustainability of project
activities. For instance, ACSA will continue to provide extension services across the country
through the Government budget financing for at least next five years. In addition, continuous
effective management of the Agricultural Marketing Information System by ACSA will allow
provision of market operational information about pricing, potential markets, inputs and
marketing of agricultural products, and other useful information necessary for consultants in
advisory and beneficiaries from the agri-food sector. The project Credit Line revolving funds will
continue to be managed by the CLD established at the MOF. Finally, implementation of pilot re-
parceling projects served as a catalyst for the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) to
launch a technical assistance program to help the Government to design a land strategy and
further improve the Land Code.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

55.      The objective of the RISP Program is still highly relevant to the country’s needs and
priorities. Structural reforms over the recent years contributed to the creation of a large private
agricultural sector. However, the majority of rural private enterprises had not managed to adjust
to a new market environment. In this context, there was a need for sustained and determined
effort to create improved conditions to develop business skills, and bring in investments for new
businesses in rural areas. In addition, the project proved to be critical in helping the country to
weather unexpected external shocks and natural disasters. The PDO was well aligned with both
the Government’s priorities and the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy FY14-17. The project
addressed two of three pillars of the CPS – Increased Competitiveness and Promoting a Green,
Clean and Resilient Moldova.




                                                11
56.      The design of the project was well conceived in terms of logical connections among
its components and their expected contribution to achievement of the project’s objective.
Each component was designed to address specific problems and the success of each component
was dependent on success of another component. While the first three components (also included
in the design of RISP I) were closely linked to each other, a newly introduced Land Re-Parceling
Component, through facilitating the development of land markets, was expected to increase the
attractiveness and creditworthiness of farmers in their attempt to secure credit.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

57.     The achievement of the PDO is assessed as Satisfactory. The project fully met its PDO
indicators and exceeded their target values: (i) relative increase in productivity of project
beneficiaries, measured through the growth in lending to agricultural and rural sectors, increased
by 175 percent against the initial target of 30 percent, and (ii) 90.8 percent of beneficiaries had
increases in income against the initial target of 80 percent.

   PDO Indicator              Baseline                 Actual               End Target              Comments
- Growth in lending
                                                  MDL5.9 billion          MDL2.85 billion
to agricultural and       MDL2.14 billion
                                                    (+175%)                 (+30%)
rural sectors                                                                                  Based on June 2013
-% of beneficiaries                                                                            aide memoire.
whose income has                0%                     90.8%                    80%
increased

58.     Directly attributing income increases to the RISP II credit line was complicated by other
donors’ credit lines 2 which also benefitted RISP II beneficiaries by providing refinancing for their
original RISP II loans. However, the final impact assessment was able to disaggregate the
benefits from RISP II and assess its impact apart from the other financing sources.

59.      The PDO was achieved through the outcomes described below:

Component 1: Rural Advisory Services

60.     Outcome #1: A sustainable and effective rural advisory services (RAS) network is
created, providing much needed extension services covering over 40 percent of the country.
Through the project, MAFI implemented a well formulated extension policy and the project
helped to ensure the continuity and sustainability of these extension services. Two month before
project closure, ACSA was competitively selected through a public open tender process to
provide extension services and a five-year contract was signed between the Government and
ACSA on April 30, 2013. Further, during 2006-12, the agency managed to secure external
funding in the share of 43.5 percent (excluding RISP II) against a target of 25 percent. Both local
government and donor organizations had come to rely on ACSA as it had proven capacity to
implement and monitor projects in rural areas. ACSA is likely to be sustained given: (i) its
coverage of a vast geographical area with 41 percent of the country’s population; (ii) balanced
coverage by types of beneficiaries; (iii) provision of professional training to its advisors at all



2
 Credit lines were also provided by International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), Kreditanstalt für
Wiederaufbau (KfW,) European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), International Finance
Corporation (IFC), and European Fund for Southeast Europe (EFSE).




                                                        12
levels (national, regional and local); and (iv) good relations with local authorities, specialized
state organizations and NGOs, as well strong links with the national sector research institutions.

61.     Outcome#2: Competitive and co-financed Rural Advisory Services market exists,
capable of addressing the diverse needs of the rural poor. The network of advisory consultants
managed by ACSA include about 200,000 advisory services per year to 382,000 beneficiaries, i.e.
agricultural producers and rural entrepreneurs, helping them on a wide range of issues to enhance
their productivity and competitiveness, including technology (53 percent), business/legal (29
percent) and marketing (18 percent). The number of beneficiaries reached was slightly below (96
percent) the target of 400,000 beneficiaries. ACSA’s activity planning was based on the
participatory approach that implied feedback to information requirements and settlement of
problems faced by farmers. In addition, ACSA contributed to the development and publication of
brochures and manuals of more than 180 titles with a total circulation of 800,000 copies. All
information in the materials was based on farmers’ needs identified through ACSA annual studies.
Finally, implementation and effective management of the ACSA’s Agricultural Marketing
Information System allowed provision market information in high demand, such as pricing,
potential markets, inputs and marketing of agricultural products, and other useful data.

62.     Outcome#3: High client satisfaction with the new technologies and farm
management recommendations provided by RAS (% of positive responses and ratings). The
final impact assessment interviewed beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries of RAS representing over
700 entrepreneurs and family households in rural areas, and the following positive feedback on
RAS services was provided by interviewed beneficiaries:
    • 97 percent stated that the RAS providers were important sources of information and
        consultations for their businesses;
    • 96.6 percent appreciated the quality of consulting services;
    • 72.8 percent increased family revenues, 68.2 percent increased crop yields/livestock and
        55.5 increased volume of agricultural output;
    • 32.5 percent invested in and improved crop cultivation technologies and livestock;
    • 23.2 percent increased their land productivity through consolidating or leasing areas and
        20.2 percent invested and acquired new agricultural machinery and equipment.

Component 2: Rural Business Development

63.     Outcome#4: Improved entrepreneurship in the project areas measured by
qualitative and quantitative assessments of entrepreneurial activity and increased business
survival rates. The project supported business development agencies that contributed to the
creation and operation of rural businesses. These development agencies provided hands-on
assistance to rural entrepreneurs in the formulation of business opportunities, preparation of
business plans, and facilitation of access to finance from financial institutions and implementation
support. The component resulted in the creation of 1,038 (against of 600 targeted) businesses and
2,645 jobs in a wide range of sectors, including agriculture and livestock (53%), trade (8.6%),
food and beverage production (6%), transport (5.7%), and various manufacturing (10.7%). More
than 98% of businesses managed to obtain financing from financial institutions in the amount of
US$32 million, all of them for the first time. Thus, the average investment made by an
operational business was about US$30,980. At the end of the implementation of this component
(June 2012), 100% of these businesses had met their loan payment obligations. This low cost
approach had a tremendous impact on financing and sustainability of these institutions and for
each dollar invested about US$2.5 million of taxes was generated in the first two years of
business operations. Early estimates of businesses exceeded US$55 million in their first year of



                                                13
operation alone. Notably 1,038 rural businesses have been created with a first-year survival rate
of more than 95 percent.

64.      Outcome#5: Increased rural incomes of direct project beneficiaries and their
employees, measured by incremental increases in rural household incomes compared to
their pre-project income. The RBD component was instrumental in the formal establishment
and registration of 1,038 new businesses in rural areas, with 2,645 formal jobs. As mentioned
earlier, somewhat more than half of these (53%) businesses were in agriculture and livestock,
with the remainder spread over a wide range of sectors, including food and beverage production,
trade, transport, small-scale manufacturing and various services. More than 98% of them
succeeded in obtaining financing from financial institutions (including the RISP II Credit Line),
all of them being first-time borrowers, and when this component closed in June 2012 all of these
businesses were current with their loan servicing obligations. The final IA for the Rural Finance
component measured this indicator in conjunction with overall increase in income under the
project, which reported that 90% of beneficiaries increased their income over the project life.

Component 3: Rural Finance

65.      Outcome#6: Broadened access to financial services in rural areas established
through rural and agricultural portfolio growth in commercial banks of at least 10 percent
per year during the project period. The project worked with a group of seven eligible
commercial banks (instead of five banks envisaged in the PAD) to extend their outreach into rural
and agricultural lending. These banks had met a strict due diligence screening process, and
undertook all client selection and risk. The credit line was professionally managed by the Credit
Line Directorate of the Ministry of Finance and extended 758 sub-loans—470 from RISP II
project financing and an additional 288 from the RISP II revolving fund and JSDF Grant. These
loans amounted to US$43.12 million of financing to rural entrepreneurs. Combined with
contributions leveraged from beneficiaries (largely remittance income) and participating financial
institutions, US$100 million of investments were directly generated or leveraged by the project.
Coverage was national and loan size averaged US$46,000. The followings sectors that received
these investments included: Services (30%), Agriculture (28%), Trade (16%), Food Processing
(10%) and Manufacturing (10%). 39.3% of credit line resources were disbursed to first-time
borrowers against a target of 30%. As of May 2013, the portfolio at risk (60 days) was around 6%.
Commercial banks considered the project as an important catalyst for the banking sector to move
into agricultural/rural lending, as indicated by the increase in total commercial lending to
agriculture and food processing mentioned above. Although the credit line dedicated to irrigation
did not disburse during its first two years of implementation due to heavy precipitation, and
disbursement for irrigation picked up during the last year of implementation and eventually
reached its initial objective of 3,000 rehabilitated hectares of irrigated land. Growth in lending
thus far outpaced original expectations of 10 percent per year, reaching 175 percent overall and
resulting in an overall lending volume of MDL 5.9 billion against a baseline of MDL 2.4 billion.

66.      Outcome#7: Improved environment for provision of rural financial services. Based
on the final impact assessment (76 sample SMEs out of the targeted 470 SMEs), all entrepreneurs
stated that their serving banks were fully transparent in disclosing correctly all loan costs and loan
process procedures, which is a sign that PFIs offered re-financed loans in a responsible manner.
The client satisfaction with PFIs was also high indicating a positive loan impact on business
performance. The only complaint expressed by the most interviewed entrepreneurs was strict loan
requirements, i.e. almost 200% of collateral value over the loan amount, applied by PFIs. In
general, PFIs applied a “good practice” SME lending appraisal technology. The main factors that



                                                 14
positively impacted project beneficiaries were the maturity of loans and the beneficiary’s
repayment schedule which reduced default risks by rural SMEs.

67.      Low demand for leasing: Although the project stressed the value of agricultural leasing
as an important financing instrument to overcome the issue of insufficient collateral and
specifically envisaged TA for development of leasing products, PFIs did not consider offering
leasing products to their clients and, thus, did not request any TA under the project. The project
team undertook a few attempts to promote leasing activities, but the review of the leasing
institutions in the country showed that (i) for some, there was little interest other than leasing
cars; (ii) for others, their balance sheet was not sufficiently solid to meet eligibility criteria. In
addition, the team explored the possibility of some institutions behind the leasing companies
(such as banks) to provide some type of guarantee to compensate for weak capital, but it was not
possible at the time. However, given the underdeveloped leasing market in the country, the
project could have supported the Government in developing a leasing regulatory framework and
subsequently offer TA to PFIs in leasing product development as originally planned.

68.      Outcome#8: New law promoting an enabling environment for SCA development
passed, with licensing requirements tailored to the risk profiles of the institutions, and
Outcome#9: State Supervisory Body for SCA supervision restructured and fully
functioning, with proper staff and enforcement capacity. The SCA Regulator established. The
project successfully supported capacity building activities in the National Commission on
Financial Markets. The Commission, created in 2007, had the responsibility, among others, to
regulate the SCA industry. This sector made up primarily of hundreds of unregulated and
unsupervised institutions provided critical basic financial services to small farmers in areas under-
served by commercial banks. With assistance from the project, the National Commission was
able to modernize the legal and regulatory framework for these institutions and design and
implement methodologies for on- and off-site inspections and risk-based monitoring. The
assistance was timely. The SCA sector suffered considerably during the 2008 global financial
crisis, leading the portfolio-at-risk (30 days) of deposit-taking institutions to increase from its
traditional level of 3-4% to an unsustainable level of 18% during the end of 2010 and beginning
of 2011. 17 institutions became insolvent. It was unclear by mid of 2012 that this indicator would
reach its objective (portfolio at risk (30 days) of less than 5%). The Commission was able to
address these problems, conducting rapid supervisions and taking a wide range of measures to
decrease the level of risk to the system and purge the bad loans. As of March 2013, the portfolio-
at-risk of all institutions had returned to a much more acceptable level of about 2.7 percent.

Component 4: Land Re-parceling Pilots

69.      Outcome #10: Development of a practical, scalable approach to land re-parceling in
Moldova. The land re-parceling component was completed in December 2010, and responded to
the Government’s concerns about fragmentation of agricultural land. Although this component
fell short in three intermediary indicators, it met its overall main purpose, which was to facilitate
efficient land markets by identifying bottlenecks and developing practical, scalable approaches to
land re-parceling based on international best practice. The component demonstrated that there
was strong demand by small landowners for re-parceling and reducing transaction costs. The pilot
worked initially in 6 villages, later expanded to 40 villages, and reached its quantitative targets.
Most importantly, the component had drawn a series of lessons feeding into a technical assistance
program of the FAO to help the Government design a land strategy, and further improvements to
the country’s Land Code. The pilot had also shown that re-parceling can lead to the creation of
commercially viable firms of five hectares and more in villages where none existed.



                                                 15
70.     Outcome#11: Improved efficiency of land markets and agricultural production in
the pilot villages. The Impact Assessment of 2011 highlighted positive benefits from the land re-
parceling activities. Thus, on the basis of interviews with 60 farms that participated in the
component activities (beneficiaries’ group) and 15 farms that were not part of the project (control
group), the following conclusions with regard to the improved efficient of land markets and
agricultural production in the pilot villages were made:
    • Beneficiaries’ farms work areas, as well as the number of their livestock were
        considerably bigger than the areas of the control group’s farms;
    • The productivity of the farming land expressed in value (gross incomes per hectare) in
        2010 was higher against the productivity before re-parceling for all main crops, except
        potato, ranging from 3.6% to 59.5%. The beneficiaries’ farms also had higher
        productivity for intensive crop growing (fruits and grapes);
    • The farms that benefited from re-parceling decreased their costs for the main farming
        crops by between 16.5% and 31.5% against the period before re-parceling;
    • As a result of land re-parceling, the beneficiary farms have built upon their commercial
        skills, so that 76% of them had sales lower than 10,000 lei before re-parceling and in
        2010, the most of them (66%) stated that sales between 10,000 and 50,000 lei;
    • The increase in economic efficiency of land re-parceling was also confirmed by the
        dynamic of the gross margin per hectare and the gross margin rate, which went up for all
        basic farming crops;
    • Better economic results attained by the beneficiary group farms were also confirmed by
        the fact that they had managed, in a rather short period of time, to increase their
        production resources—number of equipment, machines and means of transportation,
        areas of land worked, number of livestock, as well as the number of employed workforce.
        As a result, the number of farm members which had contributed to family budget had
        grown from 2.26 to 2.44 or by 8%.

Component 4: Drought Adaptation Component

71.      Strengthened farmers’ preparedness to climate risks through information on
practical techniques for adaptation, i.e., pilot grants/demonstration about adaptation to
climate risks. The project supported investments for small-scale on-farm irrigation rehabilitation
through PFIs, which charged real interest rates and applied the same prudence standards toward
the borrowers. The project financed 26 irrigation sub-projects totaling US$2.8 million, and
rehabilitated on-farm irrigated area of 3,000 ha. The component activities also strengthened
knowledge and management capacity of small farmers to cope with the challenges posed by
drought through the National Rural Development Agency. Training on topics related to irrigation
was conducted for 38,000 beneficiaries (against the target of 35,000 beneficiaries) and the
adoption rates of drought adaptation agronomics were at 30 percent.

3.3 Efficiency

72.      Given the demand-driven nature of the Project and its major components, it was not
plausible to determine ex-ante the various investments that would be undertaken by beneficiaries
and financed by the Project. No attempt was made at Appraisal, therefore, to calculate aggregate
economic or financial rates of return for the Project as a whole or for its individual components.
Instead, each component was appraised in terms of either cost-effectiveness of service delivery
measures; for the Rural Finance component, this was supplemented by the illustrative
identification of a number of different possible business investments and the estimation of their
probable internal rates of return. The key assumption was that as long as the Project performed



                                                16
satisfactorily, it would be reasonable to assume that the rate of return for the Project would
exceed the opportunity cost of capital. For the ICR, likewise, no attempt was made to calculate a
rate of return for the entire Project. Instead separate and methodologically different estimates
were undertaken for the two largest components, Rural Advisory Services and Rural Finance,
which together accounted for 89 percent of total project expenditures (see Annex 3). No attempt
was made to estimate ERRs for the two other components, Rural Business Development and
Land Re-parceling.

73.      Component 1, Rural Advisory Services, aimed to provide information, knowledge and
know-how to newly established private farmers and rural population. The client survey carried
out for the Impact Assessment found that 61% of those surveyed reported significantly increased
family income as key benefit of their access to RAS, and 58% reported significantly increased
productivity. However, while the survey of RAS clients confirmed that they enjoyed significant
yield gains on their main crops, no firm comparator data are available to assess a “before-project”
or “without-project” scenario. To gauge the economic impact of this component, estimates were
developed, therefore, using only maize and wheat, which together occupy about 45% of total
agricultural land in Moldova. About half of all Moldovan farmers were RAS clients during the
project period, and it is assumed that they farmed half the country’s wheat and half its maize
acreage and that by 2012 they used RAS-recommended improved production methods on half of
their land under these two crops. Of the average yield gain of 30 percent above traditional
production methods, one half is attributed to the impact of RAS, the other half to the use of more
productive inputs. The yields achieved by RAS clients in 2011-12 (ignoring the drought impact)
are assumed to be sustained thereafter. The aggregate net gain in output value is about US$14.2
million per year. Over the 15-year period, 2012 through 2026, this gives an Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of 53.1 percent and an NPR for the RAS component of US$42.3 million.
Sensitivity analysis shows that even substantially lower benefit assumptions—such as a lower
yield effect, a substantially lesser area put under improved practices, and/or a gradual decline in
yields after five years—still render ERRs well above 20 percent.

74.     Component 3, Rural Finance, aimed to support the continued expansion of the formal
financial sector into rural areas. Its core element was a commercially driven credit line for rural
enterprises, through which the PFIs were to lend only to enterprises with a viable business
concept and a sufficient internal rate of return. A total of US$30,588,897 in 470 separate loans
(including 53 under the Drought Adaptation component added in 2009) was disbursed by the PFIs.
Each RISP-II loan dollar generated an investment of US$3.45, with US$2.45 being mobilized
from other credit and equity sources. Put differently, US$29 in Project funds disbursed as loans
mobilized US$71 in additional local resources for productive investments in rural enterprises.

75.      To assess the economic impact of this component, 54 randomly selected SMEs that had
obtained loans under credit line and had also submitted financial reports to the National Bureau of
Statistics were surveyed in detail, with their survey responses cross-checked against their
financial statements. For these 54 enterprises (11.5 percent of the 470 RISP-II borrowers,
accounting for 12.4 percent of total borrowing under the project) the available data were
sufficiently reliable to allow the estimation of the financial Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and of
other key parameters. The simple, unweighted average of IRRs of these 54 enterprises is 32.4
percent. Two enterprises in this group had negative IRRs. Only three had IRRs of less than 12
percent (the opportunity cost of capital) and only three others had IRRs below 15 percent (the
current country risk premium for Moldova). Of the 46 with IRRs above 15 percent, 14 were in
the 15-25 percent range, 21 in the 25-40 percent range and 11 had IRRs of better than 40 percent.
Considering all 54 enterprises as a whole, the investments made by them during 2006-12,
financed by RISP-II and other loans as well as by own resources, generate estimated earnings


                                                17
before tax and depreciation averaging about US$7.5 million annually, with a financial IRR of
27.7 percent and a Financial Net Present Value (FNPV) over the useful life of the US$26.2
million in fixed investments made. Taking into account the additional cash flow generated in the
form of wage payments for the 319 new jobs created by these 54 enterprises, the estimated
Economic IRR for the group of 54 SMEs is 30.5 percent and the Economic Net Present Value
(ENPV) amounts to US$33.4 million.

76.     Job Creation and Wage Income. M&E data indicate that the 470 loans issued under the
Project helped create 2,995 new permanent jobs, almost equally divided among women and men,
in the enterprises obtaining these loans. On average, US$10,213 of credit financing created one
new permanent job. From 2006 to 2012, the wages for these newly created jobs increased at an
annual average of 10.75 percent for administrative personnel and 16.25 percent for workers,
considerably exceeding the rate of domestic inflation. In 2012, the average wage earned in these
new jobs was US$208/month, well above the average for all wage-earners (US$140/month in
2010) nationwide.

77.      Fiscal Impact. The fiscal impact of this Project component is significant. During the
initial period of disbursements from the IDA credit, the Government realized considerable
earnings through the sizeable premium of the on-lending rates to PFIs over the cost of IDA funds.
The second-round effect continues to be the payment of value-added and income taxes and of
social security contributions by the enterprises created or expanded.3 The extent to which this
second-round effect is in fact realized depends on compliance and enforcement: when the five-
year suspension of the 12 percent business income tax ended in 2012, the SMEs of the current
sample reported dramatically lower profits than in prior years, despite a further rise in aggregate
earnings.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

78.     Based on the relevance, achievement of development objectives, and efficiency, the
project’s overall outcome is rated as Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

79.      Poverty Impacts: The impact assessments provide evidence of reduced poverty through
(i) increased agricultural production; (ii) increased employment, welfare and incomes, and (iii)
enhanced food security.
According to the findings obtained for the RAS Component:
     • Subsistence farmers were able to accumulate necessary food reserves, their food
         consumption was diversified and significantly increased;
     • 15.8 percent of beneficiaries transitioned to higher-value agricultural production and have
         started to become more commercially oriented;
     • 72.8 percent of beneficiaries increased their family income; and




3
    VAT: 20%, except 8% on bread and milk and their products; business income tax (waived 2007
    through 2011: 12% for limited liability companies and joint stock companies, 7% for peasant farms;
    Social Security insurance contributions by employers: 23%, in agriculture 22%.


                                                  18
      •   68.2 percent of beneficiaries increased crop yields/livestock and 55.5 percent increased
          their volume of agricultural output.

80.     The Rural Business Development Component resulted in 1,038 new businesses and 2,645
new jobs in a wide range of sectors, including agriculture and livestock, trade, food and beverage
production, transport and manufacturing.

81.       The findings of the survey conducted under the Rural Finance Component revealed that:
      •   90 percent of the component beneficiaries have increased their income as a result of
          project intervention;
      •   90 percent of the 76 SMEs reported that their business would have grown much slower
          without RISP II refinanced loan;
      •   Net sales of the SMEs increased by 206 percent and the net profit by 234 percent.


82.       Following project interventions under the Land Re-Parceling Component:
      •   The productivity of farm land increased for all main crops;
      •   Costs for producing their main crops decreased from 16.5 to 31.5 percent; and
      •   The number of farm members contributing to the family budget grew from 2.26 to 2.44
          persons (8 percent).

83.     Women and Youth: An impressive number of women and youth benefited from the
project. Although the project did not target these groups, project M&E was gender and age
disaggregated, facilitating reporting on impacts on these groups. Under the Rural Finance
component, the 2,995 new jobs created benefitted women and men equally, and under the Rural
Business Development component, 39 percent of working places created were women.
Remarkably, 74 percent of regional consultants under the Rural Advisory Services Component
were women. Further, the interim impact assessment revealed that about 40 percent of rural
businesses created were managed by youth (18-30 years old). This can be explained by the fact
that every second rural business managed by youth received financing from the National Program
of Economic Empowerment of Youth funded by the JSDF Grant.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

84.     RISP II contributed to building long-term capacity in a number of ways. The project
provided technical assistance and training to primary beneficiaries, i.e. rural farmers and
entrepreneurs, as well as to secondary beneficiaries, which include implementing agencies such
as MAFI, ACSA, NCFM, CLD at MOF, and PFIs. The project can be credited for the following
achievements in capacity and institutional development:

      •   The project contributed to institutional changes in the design and implementation of
          extension services; it exposed trainers and trainees to international best practice and
          provided innovative ways for farmers to access extension advice and marketing
          information;
      •   DAs provided hands-on assistance to rural entrepreneurs in the formulation of business
          opportunities, preparation of business plans, and preparation of loan packages; this
          ultimately improved quality of financed SME projects and their impact on agricultural
          production and rural livelihoods;
      •   In 12 rounds of training on investment lending, a total of 176 specialists from PFIs, CLD,
          CAPMU and DAs were trained;


                                                 19
    •   The NCFM capacity to supervise the SCAs sector was strengthened through provision of
        TA by the project; this was particularly important when the NCFM had to deal with
        problems in the SCA sector caused by the global financial crisis;
    •   SCA capacity was strengthened through series of TA and training programs provided by
        the project;
    •   MAFI and local government agencies were exposed to international best practices on
        land re-parceling;
    •   At the MAFI’s request, the project provided support in strengthening AIPA institutional
        capacity; and
    •   Important investments were also made in strengthening an M&E capacity of project
        implementing agencies through provision of various relevant training programs, purchase
        of useful software and provision of regular advice on M&E aspects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

85.      A number of positive unintended outcomes need to be highlighted. The project upgraded
the capacity of the consulting sector in the country. The SIDA support to the finance TA and
training provided by the project was particularly beneficial since it allowed allocating IDA Credit
funds for the Credit Line Component. Based on successful piloting of land re-parceling activities,
FAO is currently supporting the Government in designing a land strategy, and further refining the
country’s Land Code.

86.     JSDF Grant and Youth Credit Line: As discussed in paragraph 39, a JSDF grant was
added to the project’s credit line. The grant was originally expected to supplement another IDA
operation which did not go through as planned. The JSDF activities ultimately led to the launch
of a long-term Government’s National Program on Youth Economic Empowerment (PNAET) in
2008. The PNAET currently has the same target group, contains a training and consultancy
component, and finances investment projects in the field of production and service, and post-
finance monitoring. In addition, IFAD opened a Credit Line for young entrepreneurs in 2011.

87.      Agency for Interventions and Payments in Agriculture (AIPA): Lastly, outside the
scope of the original project, RISP II successfully provided institution building support to AIPA,
resulting in its improved capacity to manage efficiently and transparently the Government’s
agriculture support programs. The country’s Agriculture Support Fund is now fully managed by
AIPA and other donors are using AIPA as a management and distribution entity for their
programs.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

88.   The findings of the impact assessments for RAS, Rural Finance and Land Re-Parceling
Components are included in Section 3.2 Achievement of PDO and summarized in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

89.     Overall, risk to the development outcome varies by outcome. The risk to institutional
sustainability is moderate in spite of high ownership by Government and beneficiary
organizations. There is a specific concern with ACSA’s sustainability because of inadequate




                                                20
remuneration and the lack of performance-based incentives for its staff, which could lead to staff
turnover and exodus of highly trained experts to the private sector.

90.      The credit line’s sustainability risk is low. The CLD is currently diligently managing
credit line re-flows, and the sustainability of enterprises supported by refinanced investment loans
appears to be high. This is reflected by a number of indicators including annual growth in sales,
profits, hiring of additional staff, and gradual growth of business. Moreover, the social risk is
also low due to high significance of project activities that focused on such issues as poverty
reduction, gender equity and inclusion of youth and various vulnerable groups in rural areas. The
environmental risk, however, might pose some concern as climate change and unpredictable
natural disasters could continue to affect the agricultural sector and rural livelihoods.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

91.      As discussed in section 2.1, strong project design was based on effective program-based
approach and underpinned by strong analytical work at entry. All aspects of the project were well
thought through, and components were designed to address key challenges in the country’s rural
sector. The preparation team included all key experts, and the project incorporated lessons from
RISP I, adequately identified risks, and proposed appropriate risk mitigation measures. The CPS
and respective Government strategies confirm that the objective continues to remain highly
relevant.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

92.      The Bank team made a significant effort to ensure successful and timely implementation
of the project, with some major activities implemented a way before the project closure (eg.
disbursement of the Credit Line, as well as completion of the RBD and pilot land re-parceling
activities). The implementation support missions were carried out regularly, mostly twice a year,
and all mission Aide Memoirs reported clearly and in detail of all problems, as well as provided
sound and feasible solutions to resolve those problems. It is also worth highlighting the team’s
pro-activeness and persistence in dealing with unexpected waves affecting the project
implementation. The Bank team was led by a Moldova-based Senior Operations Officer and
supported by the Senior Microfinance Specialist (a former TTL of the project) and Senior Rural
Finance Specialist. Supervision was executed by various specialists who focused on review of
respective components, as well as fiduciary and safeguards specialists. Several core team
members remained engaged throughout the project, and this continuity allowed the team to stay
abreast of project’s issues, identify bottlenecks if any at their early stages. Finally, management
of the project from the field office ensured a hands-on approach and rapid problem solving.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance



                                                  21
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

93.      The Government demonstrated a high level of ownership during the preparation and
implementation of the project. It was very active and committed and did everything needed to
ensure its success. All resources required from the Government were made available and
necessary arrangements were put in place for project teams from various government agencies to
participate actively in the project implementation. The project activities were carried out in a
professional and sound manner despite periods of temporary political instability arising from
several changes of the Government in power. The credit particularly goes to the MAFI and MOF
for exercising effective oversight and coordination of their respective components. Although,
initial delays by MAFI in launching of the activities under the Land Re-Parceling Component
must be noted, following the successful implementation of the land re-parceling pilot projects in 6
villages, the decision was made to scale-up the scope of the component activities to additional 40
villages. Most importantly, highly satisfactory performance by the implementing agencies (as
described in the next section) would have not been possible without strong support of the
Government and its proactive involvement in the project implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

94.      The performance of ACSA, CLD, DAs, and NCFM was evaluated extremely positively.
All these institutions were adequately staffed, trained and efficiently carried out day-to-day
activities by demonstrating a great deal of commitment in achieving the project development
objectives. To this effect, several major achievements by the Implementing Agencies should be
specifically acknowledged and they are as follows:

- ACSA, through its wide network of rural advisory consultants, provided about 200,000 advisory
services per year to 382,000 beneficiaries, i.e., agricultural producers and rural entrepreneurs,
helping them on a wide range of issues to enhance their productivity and competitiveness,
including technology (53%), business/legal (29%) and marketing (18%). Furthermore, ACSA
developed a strategy for extension services in the country and was selected, through the
Government competitive tender process, to provide RAS in the next five years.

- Four DAs provided hands-on assistance to rural entrepreneurs in the formulation of business
opportunities, preparation of business plans, and facilitation of access to finance from financial
institutions and implementation support. The DAs’ activities resulted in the creation of 1,038
businesses (against the project target of 600 new businesses) and 2,645 jobs in a wide range of
sectors, including agriculture and livestock (53%), trade (8.6%), food and beverage production
(6%), transport (5.7%), and various manufacturing (10.7%). More than 98% of businesses
managed to obtain financing from financial institutions, all of them for the first time.

- CLD professionally managed the project’s Credit Line by extending 758 sub-loans of
approximately US$43 million to rural entrepreneurs from all RISP II sources, including re-flows.
The RISP II credit line amounted to 19.2% of the overall loan portfolio of the CLD. By the
Closing Date of the project, the CLD managed a 160.75% recovery rate of the RISP II credit line
while considering the payment of interest to the IDA, however not yet repayment due to the grace
period. Such achievement of the CLD is quite remarkable in the light of the difficult overall
economic conditions and poor quality of the banks´ loan portfolios. If the CLD succeeds in
convincing the Government to continue its professional reflow management of the RISP II credit



                                                22
lines - and, in fact, all the other credit lines- , sustainability of the RISP II credit line can be
judged as very high.

- NCFM, created in 2007, has been effectively regulating the SCA industry. Prior to 2007,
hundreds of SCAs were left unregulated and unsupervised. With project support, the National
Commission was able to modernize the legal and regulatory framework for these institutions, and
develop methodologies for on- and off-site inspections and risk-based monitoring. Its role was
particularly instrumental in managing the negative impacts of the 2008 global financial crisis,
which led to a sharp increase in the portfolio-at-risk (30 days) of from 3-4 percent pre-crisis to an
unsustainable 18 percent between the end of 2010 and beginning of 2011. Through rapid
supervisions and application of a wide range of measures to decrease the level of risk to the
system and purge bad loans, the National Commission effectively addressed these issues. As of
March 2013, the portfolio-at-risk of all institutions had returned to 2.7 percent.

95.     CAPMU’s contribution to project success cannot be overstated. The implementing
agency was well staffed with competent and proactive experts with minimal turnover, key to
project continuity. During the project implementation period, there was no evidence of fiduciary
mismanagement. CAPMU was also able to maintain a sound and comprehensive M&E system to
track project activities and progress against output and outcome indicators. Besides being a
fiduciary agent for the project, CAPMU effectively served a coordinating role between the
primary beneficiaries, Government agencies, private sector and the Bank. Further, two
coordinators of the RAS and RBD Components at CAPMU effectively fulfilled their duties and,
particularly, worked very hard in ensuring completion of all activities in due time. CAPMU was
able to disburse all IDA and SIDA funds on time, and close the financial statement before the
grace period.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

96.     Overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

97.      Strong analytic work, leveraged through good cross-sectoral cooperation and
piggybacking the work used for the development policy credit, the PRSC, were crucial to solid
project design. This, in addition to building on lessons learned from RISP I of the APL, was
crucial for successful outcomes despite the complex and ultimately “Christmas tree-like” design.
The latter was due to RISP II serving as an effective conduit for channeling assistance. First and
foremost, in the face of unexpected external shocks (e.g., drought and global financial crisis) but
also when donor assistance was in need of an administrative home, such as in the case of the
JSDF grant for youth and support for AIPA. Good management, strong Bank support in country
and in headquarters, and unwavering Government commitment contributed in no small part to
these positive outcomes.

98.      A commitment to results-based management by the Bank, the co-financier, and the
Government, enhanced positive project outcomes. The application of quantitative and qualitative
information from impact assessments to adjust project implementation mid-stream was a
particularly noteworthy project achievement that represents “best practice” that should be
replicated in other projects.




                                                 23
99.     Strong Government ownership, supplemented by strong implementation by the
implementing agencies and support by an experienced fiduciary agent (CAPMU), were the
cornerstones of project success and low sustainability risk. The project approach and the
implementation procedures of delegating main responsibilities to the different actors allowed a
better ownership of the project, and in particular increased awareness of the Government for
appropriate interventions and sustainability of effort.

100.      A proactive approach and flexibility by both the Bank and Government to adapt to
changing circumstances and arising issues of political, financial and environmental nature were
critical for project success. These circumstances occurred outside project control, but early
response measures allowed putting the project back on track. Of similar importance, a properly
designed M&E system and thorough review of M&E indicators during the implementation were
critical to identify any possibilities for failures and provide a platform for their resolution.

101.   The RISP program demonstrated that financial support to farmers is optimized when used
along with advisory and business development services. While investment decisions to pursue
commercial opportunities rest with private farmers and rural entrepreneurs, access to knowledge,
information, and customized business advice are important to minimize the risk for failure and to
maximize chance for success. Such an approach ensured that the rural businesses supported by
the RISP APC, have had a first-year survival rate of more than 95 percent.

102.     The RISP experience in piloting projects aimed at increasing resilience to climate
variability has also provided a clear lesson that the best stimulant for widespread adoption of new
or additional technologies is demonstration of benefits. Demonstration plots or sites were the best
way to display these benefits, and grant funding was particularly important to co-finance the
investment and advisory costs for the pioneering farmers.

103.     Finally, a failure to introduce leasing as an alternative financial instrument, as originally
envisaged in the PAD, was a missed opportunity. As discussed in paragraph 67, the project could
not overcome the hurdles to compel PFIs to offer leasing products given the high risks involved.
Given the importance of leasing to the Borrower (see comments from the Minister of Agriculture
and Food Industry, Annex 7) as a means to overcome the persisting problem of insufficient
collateral, there is a need to address leasing more comprehensively in a future project where it can
be allocated sufficient resources and attention.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The draft ICR was shared with the Government and Implementing Agencies. Feedback on the
report received from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry and Ministry of Finance is
provided in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

The draft ICR was shared with Sida. A response was received from Mr. Henrik Huitfeldt,
Counsellor/ Head of Development Cooperation in Embassy of Sweden in Moldova on December
5, 2013 where Mr. Huitfeldt stated that “the report is comprehensive, containing all relevant
information such as achieved results against the benchmarks, lessons learnt, sustainability, and
ownership.” In addition, he mentioned that Sida has no additional comments to the report.



                                                 24
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                             Appraisal
                                                       millions)


(a) Rural Advisory Services               4.94              10.17               206
(b) Rural Business Development
                                          0.85               0.96               113
    Services
(c) Rural Finance                        17.77              21.66               122
(d) Land Re-Parceling Pilots              0.75               2.16               288
(e) Drought Adaptation                    0                  5.48               548
(f) Project Management                    0.77               1.60               208

            Total Baseline Cost          25.08              42.03               168
Physical and Price Contingencies
                                          0.899              0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs          0.00               0.00
Front-end fee PPF                         0.663              0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00               0.00                .00
     Total Financing Required            25.98              42.03




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)   millions)
Borrower                                             2.50        2.07         83
International Development
                                                    23.50           16.11              69
Association (IDA)
IDA Grant                                            7.50           15.00          200
Local Sources of Borrowing Country                   9.07            0.00           0
Bilateral Agencies (unidentified)                    5.76            8.00          139




                                           26
       Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                          Component 1: Rural Advisory Services
                             Activities                                                   Outputs
MAFI Rural Development Unit, responsible for management        The Project supported the reinforcement the Unit, the
of the rural advisory service program, established and staffed implementation of RAS strategy and the contracting out
and receiving training under the Project                       the implementation of RAS activity. The project
                                                               contributed to increasing the percentage of revenues of
                                                               regional and local consultants derived from users’ fee or
                                                               other sources outside central government budget from less
                                                               than 3% to 43.5%.
Number of beneficiaries serviced by the Service Providers      The Project supported the implementation of extension
(SPs);                                                         activities across the country. The project contributed
                                                               providing advice to 382,500 farmers.
Number and type of services provided by SPs/ local             The network of advisory consultants managed by ACSA
consultants (increase in non-technological services as part of included about 200,000 advisory services per year to
the diversification effort);                                   382,500 beneficiaries, i.e. agricultural producers and rural
                                                               entrepreneurs, helping them on a wide range of issues to
                                                               enhance their productivity and competitiveness, including
                                                               technology (53%), business/legal (29%) and marketing
                                                               (18%). In addition, ACSA contributed to the development
                                                               and publication of brochures and manuals of more than
                                                               180 titles with a total circulation of 800 thousand copies.
                                                               Further, implementation and effective management of the
                                                               ACSA’s Agricultural Marketing Information System
                                                               allowed provision of highly demanded market
                                                               information, such as pricing, potential markets, inputs and
                                                               marketing of agricultural products, and other useful data.
Number of farmers groups and local user committees in RAS      RAS worked with 634 formal and non-formal farmers
clientele                                                      groups 4

                                             Component 2: Rural Business Development
Minimum 300 new businesses created and registered in rural                  The Project provided support for the formation of viable
areas under the project;                                                    agribusinesses through supporting Development Agencies
                                                                            (DAs), which provide pre-registration support, the legal
                                                                            registration process support, and post-creation support to
                                                                            ensure good business operational practices. The project
                                                                            contributed to creation of 1,038 businesses.
At least 900 new jobs (full-time and part-time) created in the              The Project supported all forms of private ownership
new businesses;                                                             through DAs assistance. The project contributed creating
                                                                            2,645 jobs.
At least 1/3 of all new businesses created engaged in off-farm              49,52% of 1,036 businesses that started implementing
activities                                                                  their business plans were non-agricultural ones
At least three Development Agencies with 9 teams engaged in                 Four Development Agencies with 7 teams were engaged
rural business development                                                  in providing assistance to launch services and business
                                                                            development in rural areas.

                                                      Component 3: Rural finance




       4
           Data provided according to the Impact Assessment Study on Rural Advisory Services carried out by AID NGO, 2013




                                                                      27
Credit line for investment loan and leases                        A Credit Line, professionally managed by the Credit Line
                                                                  Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, extended 737 sub-
                                                                  loans of approximately US$41 million to rural
                                                                  entrepreneurs from all RISP II sources, including re-flows.
                                                                  Coverage was national and loan size averaged US$46
                                                                  thousand. The sector that received these investments
                                                                  included: Services (30%), Agriculture (28%), Trade
                                                                  (16%), Food Processing (10%) and Manufacturing (10%).
                                                                  39.3% of credit line resources were disbursed to first-time
                                                                  borrowers against a target of 30%. As of May 2013, the
                                                                  portfolio at risk (60 days) was around 6%.
Strengthening the savings and credit associations industry        The Project supported improvement of the legal,
                                                                  regulatory and supervisory framework of the Savings and
                                                                  Credit Associations (SCAs) industry and provided them
                                                                  capacity building. The Project also provided capacity
                                                                  building for a new supervisory body for SCAs to be in
                                                                  charge of the regulation and supervision of the whole SCA
                                                                  industry. The Project contributed to decreasing Portfolio-
                                                                  at-Risk 30 days to 2.7 %.
                                                                  The following regulatory documents were developed with
                                                                  the support of the project:
                                                                  1.Law on SCAs (No. 139-XVIas of 21/06/2007);
                                                                  2. Regulation on requirements to administrators of savings
                                                                  and credit associations (No.63/6 of December 25, 2007);
                                                                  3. Regulation on the assessment and approval of business
                                                                  plan for savings and credit associations (no. 5/6 of January
                                                                  31, 2008);
                                                                  4. Prudential norms for savings and credit associations
                                                                  (no. 17/8 of April 30, 2008);
                                                                  5. Regulation on issuing approval for state registration of
                                                                  savings and credit associations (no. 15/11 of April 17,
                                                                  2008);
                                                                  6. Statute template for Savings and Credit Associations;
                                                                  7. Regulation on issuing approval for investments in
                                                                  corporate securities by savings and credit associations (no.
                                                                  50/13 of October 17, 2008);
                                                                  8. Decision on approval of the Regulation on the
                                                                  reorganization of savings and credit associations (no.17/8
                                                                  of April 03, 2009);
                                                                  9. Decision on approving the Instruction on reporting of
                                                                  savings and credit associations (No. 44/8 of October 08,
                                                                  2009, Nr.56-57/229 Official Gazette of 20.04.2010);
                                                                  10. Decision on the approval of the liquidity fund for
                                                                  savings and credit associations (No. 13/11 of April 01,
                                                                  2010, Nr.110-113/391 Official Gazette of 02.07.2010);
                                                                  11. Decision on the approval of the stabilization fund for
                                                                  savings and credit associations (No. 24/16 of June 25,
                                                                  2010, Nr.206-209/720 Official Gazette of 22.10.2010).
Some 350 loans and leases made by participating financial         470 loans were extended by PFIs
institutions, including
At least 200 loans and leases made to first-time borrowers        39.3% of 470 loans were made to first-time borrowers




                                                             28
At least 5 PFI participate in the project, of which at least one    7 PFIs were involved within RISP II -
PFI is new, i.e., did not participate in Phase I of RISP                 1. MoldovaAgroindbank
                                                                         2. Fincombank
                                                                         3. Moldindconbank
                                                                         4. Victoriabank
                                                                         5. Mobiasbancă
                                                                         6. Banca Socială
                                                                         7. Banca de Economii
                                                                    Compared to 6 PFIs active within RISP I –
                                                                         1. MoldovaAgroindbank
                                                                         2. Victoriabank
                                                                         3. Banca Socială
                                                                         4. Fincombank
                                                                         5. Moldindconbank
                                                                         6. Rural Finance Corporation
                                                                    2 new banks joined RISP II: Mobiasbanca and Banca de
                                                                    Economii. The banks mentioned above are also
                                                                    intermediary banks for the revolving resources, in addition
                                                                    to which Energbank and Eurocreditbank were added.
Good project-related portfolio quality in the PFIs, with at least   Please see the table below (data as of 31/03/2013 was
95% recovery rate;                                                  provided by CLD)
SCA loan portfolio quality very good, with PAR30 not                2.7%
exceeding 5%;
                                          Component 4: Land Re-parceling Pilots
                            Activities                                                        Outputs
Land re-parceling implemented with participation of at least      The Project supported the implementation of the land re-
30% of the population in 6 pilot villages;                        parceling in pilot localities. The Project provided training
                                                                  of the methodology in training for experienced
                                                                  professionals for them to train new participants. The level
                                                                  of participation of the selected beneficiaries (of total
                                                                  land owners) represented 40%, which was appreciated as
                                                                  remarkable result.
                                                                  The pilot work in 6 initial villages was later expanded to
                                                                  another 40 villages.
Irrigation finance services                                       The Project supported the investments for small-scale on-
                                                                  farm irrigation rehabilitation through PFIs which charge
                                                                  real interest rates and apply the same prudence standards
                                                                  towards the borrowers. The Project contributed financing
                                                                  for 26 irrigation sub-projects, totaling US$ 2.8 million,
                                                                  and increasing rehabilitation of on-farm irrigated area to
                                                                  3,000 ha.

                                             Component 5: Drought Adaptation
Draft Adaptation advisory services                              The Project supported the implementation of activities
                                                                aimed at raising awareness, knowledge and management
                                                                capacity of small farmers to cope with the challenges
                                                                posed by drought through the National Rural
                                                                Development Agency. The Project contributed providing
                                                                training on topics related to irrigation to 38,000
                                                                beneficiaries and increasing of adoption rates of drought
                                                                adaptation agronomics to 30 %.
                                             Component 6: Project Management




                                                               29
Project management        The Project provided technical and financial support for
                          project management. The Project supported expenses such
                          as audit, the hiring of an environmental specialist, and
                          monitoring and evaluation. The Project contributed
                          consistent performance in highly satisfactory manner by
                          the Consolidated Agriculture Project Management Unit,
                          which provided strong support to the project
                          implementation and fiduciary activities.




                     30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

I. Introduction

         Project design did not establish specific investments to be made, but established instead
the mechanisms for service output delivery in its different components. With investments to be
implemented depending therefore entirely on the effective demand expressed by clients, it was
not plausible to determine ex-ante their types, magnitudes and economic or financial impacts. No
attempt was made at Appraisal, therefore, to calculate aggregate economic or financial rates of
return for the Project as a whole or for its individual components. Instead, each component was
appraised in terms of either cost-effectiveness of service delivery measures (Rural Advisory
Services, Rural Business Development, Land Re-parceling) or financial sustainability and sub-
project appraisal capacity of the Participating Financial Institutions (Rural Finance). For the
Rural Finance component, this was supplemented by the illustrative identification of a number of
different possible business investments and the estimation of their probable internal rates of
return. The key assumption was that as long as the Project performed satisfactorily, it would be
reasonable to assume that the rate of return for the Project would exceed the opportunity cost of
capital.

        For the ICR, likewise, no attempt was made to calculate a rate of return for the entire
Project. Instead separate and methodologically different estimates were undertaken for the two
largest components, Rural Advisory Services and Rural Finance, which together accounted for
89% of total Project expenditures. No attempt was made to estimate ERRs for the two other
components, Rural Business Development and Land Re-parceling.

II. Component 1: Rural Advisory Services (RAS)

         The component aimed to provide information, knowledge and know-how to newly
established private farmers and rural population. Project expenditures for this component totalled
US$10.76 million, or 25.6% of total project expenditures.

         For the Impact Assessment undertaken for the Borrower, 600 RAS clients and 100 non-
clients, distributed over the entire country, were surveyed by questionnaire and structured
interview. Two thirds of the RAS clients had already used RAS before 2006, one third were new
clients. The questionnaires and interviews yielded much information, although not necessarily
adequate and sufficient for a rigorous quantitative economic analysis of project impact.

         A key finding of the client survey is that 97% of RAS clients, while they also use other
sources of information, consider the RAS network an important source of information and
consultations necessary to manage their business, with agronomic technology being the
predominant subject area. Between 55 and 60% of clients who noted technologic, economic or
marketing issues as having been the subject of their interaction with RAS reported implementing
the recommendations provided to them (see Table 3.1). 61% of those surveyed reported
significantly increased family income as key benefit, 58% reported significantly increased
productivity (see Table 3.2). Also notable is that 32.5% of those surveyed reported having
invested in improved crop cultivation technologies and/or livestock and 23% reported having
expanded their farming operations by purchasing or renting additional land.




                                               31
                      Table 3.1: Type of Advice Received and Implemented
                                                        Beneficiaries who adopted and
                               RAS beneficiaries
                                                        implemented recommendation
           Consulting
             domain                       % of 600                       % of 600
                           Number       beneficiaries   Number         beneficiaries
                                        interviewed                    interviewed
        Technologic           523          87.2%          305             58.3%
        Economic              290          48.3%          176             60.7%
        Marketing             259          43.2%          146             56.4%
        Legal                 203          33.8%           98             48.3%
        Social                106          17.7%           40             37.7%
        Organic               155          25.8%           57             36.8%

                Table 3.2: Qualitative Impact of Implementing RAS Recommendations
                                                         Number of Respondents
                                            Considerably Medium       Somewhat    Total                                  high &
                                                                                                                        medium,
                                                      (over 50%)        (49-20%)         (19-0%)        Persons         % of all
                                                                                                                      interviewed
Increased family income                                         124             242               71          437         61%
Enhanced productivity of crops/animals                          102             245               62          409         58%
Diversified crops or services                                    73             119               43          235         32%
Enhanced volume of agricultural output                          110             179               44          333         48%
More efficient and competitive                                   73              83               20          176         26%
Qualitative production and best trade prices                     45              91               41          177         23%
Stable annual profits                                            42              89               31          162         22%

        The available data do not lend themselves to a robust economic evaluation of this Project
component. While the information obtained from the 600 client interviews and questionnaires
confirms that RAS clients had significant yield gains on their main crops, no firm comparator
data are available to assess a “before-project” or “without-project” scenario. 5

         A rough estimation was undertaken, therefore, using only maize and wheat, which
occupy about 27% and 18%, respectively, of total agricultural land in Moldova. 6 About half of
all Moldovan farmers were RAS clients during the project period 2006-2012, and it is assumed
that they farmed half the wheat and half the maize acreage in Moldova and that by 2012 they used
RAS-recommended improved production methods on half of their land under these two crops.
Production costs per hectare are estimated to be 20% higher than with traditional inputs and
agronomic practices. Of the average yield gain of 30% above traditional production methods, one
half is attributed to the impact of RAS, the other half to the use of more productive inputs. The
yields achieved by RAS clients in 2011/2012 (ignoring the drought impact) are assumed to be
sustained thereafter. The aggregate net gain in output value (accounting for the increased
production costs) is about US$14.2 million per year. Over the 15-year period 2012 through 2026,
this gives an ERR of 53.1% and an NPR for the RAS component of US$42.3 million. Sensitivity


5
    In part, the problem is also due to the fact that 2012 data are of very limited utility, since Moldova suffered a very
    severe drought in 2012, which caused extensive losses to crops such as wheat, sunflower and particularly maize.
    Maize yields declined by 59% and sunflower yields by 53% compared to the multiannual average. The Southern
    region was the most affected and suffered the most severe drops in yields and production.
6
    The main crops by area in 2011 were maize (27%), wheat (18%), sunflower (16%), vineyards (8%) and orchards
    (7%), together covering two thirds of all agricultural land.


                                                          32
analysis suggests that even substantially lower benefit assumptions – such as a lower yield effect,
a substantially lesser area put under improved practices, and/or a gradual decline in yields after
five years – still render very robust ERRs (see Table 3.3).

                                         Table 3.3: Sensitivity Analysis
                                                                                           NPV             ERR
      Assumptions
                                                                                         (US$ mill)        (%)
      Base Case, 15% yield gain for RAS clients, remaining stable                          42.3            53.1
      10% yield gain, remaining stable                                                     20.6            38.3
      Only half the acreage, 10% yield gain, remaining stable                               7.0            23.9
      Only half the acreage, 10% yield gain, but yields declining again
                                                                                             6.1            23.1
       by 2% annually starting in 2017 (5 years after project closing)

III. Component 2: Rural Business Development

         The objective of this component was to strengthen the emerging rural private business
sector by financing technical assistance for rural entrepreneurs and providing operational support
for local development agencies (DAs), with the aim of creating legally registered, self or jointly
owned sustainable rural businesses, which would potentially become clients of financial
institutions. US$962,322, or 2.3% of the Project total, were spent for this component.

         This Project component was instrumental in the formal establishment and registration of
over 1000 new businesses in rural areas, with about 2650 formal jobs. Somewhat more than half
of these (53%) businesses were in agriculture and livestock, with the remainder spread over a
wide range of sectors, including food and beverage production, trade, transport, small-scale
manufacturing and various services. More than 98% of them succeeded in obtaining financing
from financial institutions (though not necessarily from the RISP-II credit line), all of them being
first-time borrowers, and when this component closed in June 2012 all of these businesses were
current with their loan servicing obligations. By assisting these newly developing enterprises the
project also helped generate tax revenue for the Government budget7 and new contributions to the
social security fund. No attempt was made to estimate an aggregate ERR for this
component.

IV. Component 3: Rural Finance

        This component, its resources augmented during Project implementation by the addition
of US$6 million provided under the Drought Adaptation Component in 2008 and of a further
US$10 million as Additional Financing in 2009, accounted for 63.2% of total Project
expenditures. It aimed to support the continued outreach expansion of the formal financial sector
into rural areas so as to improve access to investment financing for farmers and rural
entrepreneurs. In addition to providing technical assistance for the restructuring and strengthening
of the Savings and Credit Associations sector, it was also envisaged to promote the use of leasing,
but the core of this component was a credit line for rural enterprises. This credit facility was
commercially driven, encouraging the participating financial institutions (PFIs) to lend only to
enterprises with a viable business concept and a sufficient internal rate of return.




77
     It has been estimated that for each US$ invested about US$2.5 of taxes was generated in the first two years of
     business operations.


                                                          33
        A total of US$30,588,897 in 470 separate loans (including 53 under the Drought
Adaptation component added in 2009) was disbursed by the PFIs, with RISP-II providing
US$23,947,916 and the PFIs financing US$6,640,981 from their own resources. The borrowers
themselves contributed an additional US$52,119,687 from their own or other sources to finance
aggregate investments of US$82,708,583 (see Table 3.4). Each RISP-II loan dollar thus triggered
an investment of US$3.45, with US$2.45 being mobilized from other credit and equity sources.
Put differently, US$29 in Project funds disbursed as loans mobilized US$71 in additional local
resources for productive investments in rural enterprises.

                             Table 3.4: RISP-II SME Lending by Year
                    No of    Aggregate loan     Of which RISP-     Borrowers own
          Year      loans      value (US$)         II (US$)      contribution (US$)
         2006           75          2,876,762          2,301,394            2,014,314
         2007           85          4,095,940          3,276,752            7,390,666
         2008          104          5,924,083          4,739,267           20,382,156
         2009           35          1,936,036          1,512,790            3,380,181
         2010           96          6,009,793          4,671,559           11,691,799
         2011           29          3,296,264          2,555,187            4,034,933
         2012           46          6,450,018          4,890,969            3,225,636
         Total         470         30,588,897        23,947,916            52,119,687

        Project lending benefitted primarily micro, small and medium-sized rural enterprises, and
the average loan size was US$65,000. 27.8% of the total volume of loans issued was for micro-
enterprises with no more than 9 employees, and 53.8% for small enterprises with up to 49
employees. 17.7% of total loan value went to medium enterprises with 50-249 employees and
less than 1% of the loan portfolio financed large enterprises (see Table 3.5). 92 loans were for
amounts of up to US$20,000, representing 4% of the total lending volume, 274 were loans of up
to US$100,000, representing 46% of the total loan volume, and 104 were large loans of over
US$ 100,000, representing 50% of the total loan volume (see Table 3.6). 39.3% of total lending
under the Project went to first-time borrowers.

                           Table 3.5: Loans Disbursed by Size of Enterprise
                                                                    RISP-II         % of total
                                           No. of   Total loans
                  Size of enterprise                               resources       loan volume
                                           loans      (US$)
                                                                     (US$)          disbursed
              Micro <9 employees              204    8,354,594       6,659,869        27.3%
              Small <49 employees             215 16,663,155       12,887,172         54.5%
              Medium <249 employees            49    5,357,473       4,229,936        17.5%
              Large >249 employees               2     213,674         170,939         0.7%
              Total                           470 30,588,897       23,947,916        100.00%

                                     Table 3.6: Loans by Size
                              No. of    Total loan      RISP resources            % of total
  Loan size
                              loans   volume (US$)            (US$)              loan volume
  < US$20,000                     92         1,082,086             864,057           4%
  US$20,000 – 100,000            274        13,975,146          11,060,532          46%
  US$100,000 – 150,000            66         7,742,752           6,008,404          25%
  > US$150,000                    38         7,788,912           6,014,924          25%
  Total                          470        30,588,897          23,947,916         100%




                                                 34
         As anticipated, loans were spread over a broad range of business sectors and investment
types, although with a clear preponderance of agricultural and agro-processing investments (see
Tables 3.7 and 3.8).

                                    Table 3.7: Loans Disbursed by Sector
                                      No. of    Total loans    RISP resources           % of total loan
    Sector
                                      loans       (US$)            (US$)                disbursements
    Agriculture/agro-processing           153    12,022,786           9,618,218              39%
    Industry                               74     4,598,346           3,678,644              15%
    Trade/commerce                         70     3,680,716           2,936,512              12%
    Transport                              60     3,068,329           2,454,663              10%
    Irrigation                             27     2,798,455           1,794,623               9%
    Services                               45     2,398,563           1,918,834               8%
    Gastronomy                             41     2,021,702           1,546,422               7%
    Total                                 470    30,588,897         23,947,916              100%

                               Table 3.8: Loans Disbursed by Investment Good
                                              No. of Total loans RISP resources               Share in total loan
    Type of investment
                                               loans      (US$)          (US$)                  disbursements
    agricultural machinery                        122    9,992,144         7,549,563                 33%
    building/repair of production facility        153    8,995,629         7,188,409                 29%
    production equipment                          101    5,553,154         4,371,568                 18%
    transport equipment                            62    3,325,757         2,660,606                 11%
    farm assets                                    21    1,507,036         1,205,629                  5%
    multiannual plantations                        11    1,215,177           972,142                  4%
    Total                                         470   30,588,897        23,947,916                100%

         To assess the economic impact of this Project component, 76 randomly selected SMEs
that had obtained loans under the credit line were surveyed in detail by questionnaire. 8 Of these,
54 had officially submitted annual financial reports to the National Bureau of Statistics, and their
survey responses were cross-checked against these financial statements for the period 2006
through 2012. For these 54 enterprises (11.5% of the 470 RISP-II borrowers, accounting for
12.4% of total borrowing under the project) the available data were sufficiently reliable to allow
the estimation of the financial IRR and of other key parameters. 9

       The simple, unweighted average of IRRs of these 54 individual enterprises is 32.4%.
Two enterprises in this group had negative IRRs. Only three had IRRs of less than 12% (the
opportunity cost of capital) and only three others had IRRs below 15% (the current country risk
premium for Moldova). Of the 46 with IRRs above 15%, 14 were in the 15-25% range, 21 in the
25-40% range and 11 had IRRs of better than 40% (see Table 3.9). 10




8
       Eleven of these were subsequently also interviewed in depth.
9
       The attribution of the individual borrowers’ income increases was complicated by the fact that the
       SMEs in the sample obtained financing from other credit lines as well.
10
       At Appraisal, the individual investments identified as representative examples of likely subprojects had
       IRRs ranging from 16% to 26%


                                                       35
                                      Table 3.9: Financial IRRs of 54 SMEs
                        RISP loan        Capital                                        RISP loan         Capital
    Enterprise           amount        investment        IRR          Enterprise         amount         investment      IRR
                         (MDL)           (MDL)                                            (MDL)            (MDL)
A Dodon                    125,000        1,484,144    0.1797 Nadejda Grosu                  34,663           186,060    0.2644
Agrolibrar Nord             40,306          131,264    0.3701 Navigator-Lux                 125,667           562,359    0.2860
Agroplant-Prim              36,276           74,773    0.3574 Nedu-Staer                     95,536           120,561    0.3671
Aidin                       24,184        1,016,143    0.3045 Nic-Ol                         80,613         3,431,822    0.1531
Argon Sigma                 54,172          229,348    0.0936 Niverant                       96,735           174,075    0.2599
Arsma                       64,490            1,196    0.1445 PAT-5                          80,613            29,126   -0.1011
Avan Const                 150,000          760,454    1.0192 Piscicultura-Orhei             48,368            18,963    0.1403
Balsor Com                 145,103        1,205,462    0.0736 Plaiul Birladean               64,490         2,587,664    0.2329
BTA-14 Floresti             74,164           93,135   -0.1342 Plastcon-Flor                    9,674        1,077,267    0.3576
Convencon                   18,541           87,584    0.3551 Remarcabila                    75,292         1,844,004    0.1540
Corpus Petrol               24,184           36,320    0.2099 Revincor                       75,000           580,084    0.2206
Cristal Avant              120,919        1,690,709    0.2647 Sitari Ion                     50,383           305,516    0.2378
Cutezatorul Agricol         80,613        1,085,755    0.4901 Soclemo                        89,000            94,039    0.8846
Devotament                  16,123          430,835    0.1586 Soralex-Tur                   150,000           468,040    0.2425
Dina-Bessarab               29,000           41,543    0.6266 Stokman-Com                    32,245           135,064    0.3266
Econs-I.F.                  75,574          900,308    0.0746 Testor                        137,042           505,801    0.1371
Fabrica Oloi Pak            80,613        1,065,519    0.2593 Tetracom Agro                  84,643         1,604,250    0.5749
Filgrad                     90,286          275,358    0.2139 Timbur Maria                   20,153            66,589    0.3122
Ghenadie Bogaci             32,245           67,349    0.2812 Trimobil-Desigh                32,666           133,395    0.2303
Gheorghe Halca              20,153          195,398    0.3017 Unserv-Audit                   40,306           125,508    0.4184
Gheorghe Taran              80,613          282,303    0.6910 Vardan Agro                    10,480            37,204    0.3751
Iunat                       96,735          314,197    0.2789 Vastadum                       28,928           925,724    0.3756
Iurprodus                  114,470          442,592    0.2387 Veronica Barcari               72,551            67,026    1.5650
Lem-IT                      12,334           87,644    0.3264 Vilata Agro                    80,613         1,148,082    0.4785
Maxipac Grup               200,000          274,144    0.2564 Vimalex-Nord                   40,306            88,254    0.2928
Mebella                     65,000           95,715    0.4399 Vinuri de Comrat              153,164           320,863    0.4408
Misertais Prim              24,184          377,884    0.1933 Ziteco                         96,735           523,814    0.2097
                                                                 Aggregate all 54        3,801,148        29,908,230     0.2766
Note: These IRRs were calculated based on investment costs and on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.

        Considering all 54 enterprises as a whole, the investments made by them during the
period 2006-2012, financed by RISP-II and other loans as well as by own resources, generate
estimated earnings before tax and depreciation averaging about US$7.5 million annually, with a
financial IRR of 27.7% and a Financial Net Present Value (FNPV) over the useful life of the
fixed investments made of US$26.2 million. These indicators confirm the efficient use of funds.

        Taking into account the additional cash flow generated in the form of wage payments for
the 319 new jobs created by these 54 enterprises, the estimated Economic IRR for the group of 54
SMEs is 30.5% and the Economic Net Present Value (ENPV) amounts to US$33.4 million.

         Job Creation and Wage Income. M&E data indicate that the 470 loans issued under the
Project helped create 2995 new permanent jobs, almost equally divided among women and men,
in the enterprises obtaining these loans. On average, US$10,213 of RISP-II credit financing
created one new permanent job. Over the period from 2006 to 2012 the wages for these newly
created jobs increased at an annual average of 10.75% for administrative personnel and 16.25%
for workers, considerably exceeding the rate of domestic inflation. The average wage earned in
these 2995 new positions in 2012 amounted to US$208/month, well above the country average
for all wage-earners (US$140/month in 2010).




                                                         36
         Fiscal Impact. The fiscal impact of this Project component is significant. During the
initial period of disbursements from the IDA credit, the Government realized considerable
earnings through the sizeable premium of the on-lending rates to PFIs over the cost of IDA funds.
The second-round effect is, and continues to be, the payment of value-added and income taxes
and of social security contributions by the enterprises created or expanded with the help of loans
obtained under the Project. 11 The extent to which this second-round effect is not merely
hypothetical, but in fact realized depends on compliance and enforcement: when the five-year
suspension of the 12% business income tax ended in 2012, the SMEs of the current sample
reported dramatically lower profits than in prior years, despite a further rise in aggregate earnings.

V. Component 4: Land Re-parceling Pilot

        This component, implemented as a pilot initially in six villages and after its initial
successful phase expanded to 40 villages, sought to respond to concerns about the fragmentation
of agricultural land and its negative impact on farm efficiency and incomes among small peasant
farmers. US$ 2.16 million, or 5.1% of the Project total, was spent for this component.

         No economic analysis was undertaken for this component. However, the impact
assessment carried out for CAPMU indicated significant efficiency gains for the farmers involved.
The number of land parcels of the participating farmers was reduced by one third and the average
size of each land parcel increased correspondingly by 50%. The total distance and travel time to
farmers’ plots was measurably reduced. The impact on farm productivity was not clearly evident,
as the yields reported by the farmers interviewed were strongly affected by climatic variations
during the years of component implementation.




11
     VAT: 20%, except 8% on bread and milk and their products; business income tax (waived 2007 through 2011:
     12% for limited liability companies and joint stock companies, 7% for peasant farms; Social Security insurance
     contributions by employers: 23%, in agriculture 22%.


                                                         37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Anarkan Akerova           Counsel                              LEGCF
John E. Ambrose           Consultant                           ECSEG
Stephen M. Bartoletti     Consultant                           ECSSD
Sandra Broka              Senior Rural Finance Specialist      ECSAR
Nicholay Chistyakov       Senior Finance Officer               CTRLN
Pierre Olivier Colleye    Senior Microfinance Specialist       LCSAR
Nora Dudwick              Consultant                           AFCE4
Richard Gargrave          Sr Procurement Spec.                 ECSOQ
Vitaly Kazakov            Financial Management Specialist      ECSOQ
Bakhrom Irkinovich
                          Consultant                           ECSF1
Mirkamilov
Michael G. Nelson         Operations Officer                   WBIIN
William R. Sutton         Lead Economist                       IEGPS
Sylvie Tillier            Consultant                           LCSEN

Supervision/ICR
Irina Babich              Financial Management Specialist      ECSO3
Sandra Broka              Senior Rural Finance Specialist      ECSAR
Andrei Busuioc            Sr Financial Management Specialist   ECCAT
Arcadii Capcelea          Senior Environmental Specialist      ECSEN
Kashmira Daruwalla        Senior Procurement Specialist        ECSO2
Oxana Druta               Financial Management Analyst         ECSO3
Usaid I. El-Hanbali       Consultant                           ECSAR
Anatol Gobjila            Senior Operations Officer            ECSAR
Daria Goldstein           Senior Counsel                       LEGLE
Sara Gonzalez Flavell     Special Assistant                    IEGDG
Aleksandar Nacev          Consultant                           ECSAR
Cora Melania Shaw         Consultant                           ECSEN
William R. Sutton         Lead Economist                        IEGPS
Yingwei Wu                Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                                   120.88



                                           38
  FY06                          239.21
  FY07                            0.00
  FY08                            0.00

                  Total:        360.09
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                            0.00
  FY06                           16.10
  FY07                          215.61
  FY08                          218.02

                  Total:        449.73




                           39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

RISP II conducted final impact assessments for RAS, Rural Finance and Land Re-Parceling
Components. Client feedback indicated general satisfaction with project activities. A summary of
the key findings are provided below.

Rural Advisory Services Component:

Following field visits, review of the narrative and accounting reports, discussions with local and
regional administration representatives, beneficiaries, regional and local RAS consultants,
processing and systematization of information collected from the beneficiaries, the following
conclusions were made:
1. The National Network of RAS (NNRAS) has the necessary legal framework regulating the
   work of rural advisory service in Republic of Moldova (Government Decision on the
   approval of the Development strategy for rural advisory services for 2012-2022 years,
   Government Decision on the approval of the Framework Regulation on organization and
   operation of rural advisory service);
2. The poorest population is still located in the villages and there is a high demand for them in
   accessing the RAS. Government should continue to support the provision of RAS under the
   public co-financing, to help the poor population to ensure the minimum of subsistence, to
   move gradually from subsistence activities toward more commercial operations, and
   respectively, to obtain a stable income. The RAS beneficiaries have developed their business
   based on the provided advices. Subsistence farmers were able to accumulate necessary food
   reserves needed to ensure their family, their food consumption have diversified and
   significantly increased; 15.8% of beneficiaries began to practice high value agriculture and
   have started to become more commercial oriented;
3. Activities implemented under RAS Component had positive effects on beneficiaries namely:
   72.8% of beneficiaries have increased their family income, 68.2% increased crop yields /
   livestock and 55.5% of them increased the volume of agricultural output.
4. NNRAS managed to obtain external financing in the share of 47.1% (excluding the RISP II)
   during the years 2006-2012 and thus achieved the project objective to recover about half of
   costs;
5. NNRAS failed to register evident and quantitative results due to farmers association and
   cooperation during the years the implementation of RISP II. The network activity focused
   more on association of beneficiaries in informal groups for technological training, later on,
   being expected for a common effort in the marketing of obtained products;
6. NNRAS became a developed structure, of interest for small and medium farmers in
   accessing basic knowledge in agribusiness development, but also for local structures and
   donor organizations in accessing, and respectively, providing consulting services in
   agriculture and rural development;
7. There is a disproportion in remuneration incentives offered to NNRAS consultants because
   they are not competitive with existing average wages in the economy. Lack of accreditation
   of consultants and their remuneration without connection to performances, does not ensure
   the sustainable competitiveness and a significant progress in network development; staff
   turnover and exodus of highly trained experts in the private sector, remain one of the basic
   problems in ensuring a proper operation of the network in future;




                                               40
8. Geographical coverage and the presence of qualified consultants in the immediate approach
   of the targeted beneficiaries makes the network attractive for transmitting knowledge
   (advisory essentially) to many organizations, not only from agriculture and agribusiness
   domain. In addition, NNRAS itself as a structure has the skills and managerial capacities for
   implementation and monitoring of various projects in rural areas;
9. In NNRAS proved an effective collaboration both vertically and horizontally. Network
   management has created and developed a direct relationship between SP, regional consultants
   and local consultants and coordination office. This atmosphere ensures a collaboration and
   continuous knowledge transfer between the three levels: local consultants - regional
   consultants - national coordination office;
10. SP and LC have established good relations of cooperation with local authorities at all
    levels, decentralized services and specialized state organizations, nongovernmental
    organizations. Many activities are planned and conducted jointly with these institutions,
    ensuring an outcome and a good impact of the implemented activities. RAS consultants are
    increasingly requested by consulting organizations in the country to facilitate and organize
    various advisory activities in the service area;
11. There were instructed and trained more than 150 local and regional consultants who possess
    knowledge to develop a business plan, perfecting set of documents required for participation
    in the competition for accessing state subsidies;
12. Rural advisory network is actively involved in working with MAFI and AIPA to implement
    the Government Decision of Republic of Moldova on the use of the fund resources for
    subsidizing agricultural producers, by organizing informational campaigns at national, district
    and local levels. NNRAS along with organization of LPA and agricultural producers, informs,
    publishes and distributes informative materials (brochures, leaflets and posters, provide
    support to beneficiaries in developing business plans and prepare applications sets to AIPA
    for state subsidies;
13. Implementation and effective management of the Agricultural Marketing Information
    System allows provision of market operational information about pricing, potential markets,
    inputs and marketing of agricultural products, and other useful information, necessary for
    consultants in advisory and for beneficiaries from agri-food sector;
14. Consultants attended specialized training courses, which had beneficial effect on their skills
    and capabilities to transmit knowledge to RAS beneficiaries. Numerous local and regional
    consultants were involved in the training programs organized by NNRAS, MAFI regional
    offices and ODIMM;
15. Implementation of demonstration business contributed significantly to the implementation of
    agricultural consultancy and information dissemination among the beneficiaries. Businesses
    with demonstration features are implemented, especially in the agricultural value added
    sector (producing vegetables, fruits, berries, ornamental plants, maintenance and reproduction
    of livestock, marketing and use of production) and non-farm diversification activities (crafts,
    handicrafts, renewable energy, etc.). Each consultant has an average of 2-4 local stationary
    demonstration objects. Based on demonstration plots in previous years, the agreement
    between the beneficiaries and SP, are subsequently used to train farmers and promoting /
    replication of new business areas. Increased in investment in business demonstration plots
    was attained from project sources in combination with the corresponding contributions from
    beneficiaries and created preconditions for increasing business sustainability and efficiency in
    their training;




                                                41
 16. All ACSA publications (series "Business in gardening, horticulture, apiculture, viticulture, in
     various livestock sectors", and practical guidelines related to integrated management of plant
     protection) are required by agricultural producers and rural entrepreneurs, serving as practical
     advice for potential investors who want to start and develop businesses in rural and
     agricultural sector. NNRAS reserve fund designed for publications was maintained and
     developed, that contributed significantly to multiplication of advisory materials for
     beneficiaries.


 Rural Finance Component
1.   The disbursement of total allocated funds and the implementation of project activities is
     satisfactory and completed in due time. By the end of project all performance indicators,
     both outputs and outcomes has registered satisfactory values comparing to its appraisal
     targets, with exceptions of the targeted number of the first time borrowers (164 achieved
     against 200 targeted in PAD) and absence of the leasing financing.

2.   In regard to the first time borrowers the PIU/CDL reports mentions that one of the Project
     objectives is that no less than 30% of the credit line funding would go for first time borrowers
     and according to their monitoring data 39.3% of credit line resources were disbursed to the
     first-time borrowers but nevertheless there is a shortage of 36 disbursed loans to the first time
     borrowers.

3.   Project Development Objective 1: Share of beneficiaries (in %) whose income has increased
     as a result of project intervention. This impact assessment study has confirmed that 90% of the
     Rural Finance component’s beneficiaries have increased their income as a result of project
     intervention. Moreover, according to 90% of the 76 sample SMEs out of the targeted 470
     SMEs reported that their business would have grown much slower without the RISP
     refinanced loan, as they would have most probably not taken out a loan from the bank with
     between 2 to 5% higher interest rates and a tenor of maximum 2 to 3 years. According to
     surveyed SMEs financial statements and direct interview, over the period of project
     implementation, their net sales increase by 206% and the net profit 234%. As for fixed assets
     SMEs responded an increase of 354%.

4.   Project Development Objective 2: Increased growth in lending to agricultural and rural
     sectors. The CLD could not cross-check own lending reporting by the PFIs, nor does it have
     the information on the average loan conditions offered by the PFIs in terms of interest rates
     and loan tenor. What was possible to assess, in terms of a more specific indicator (compared
     to the next NBM indicator) represents SMEs capacity to access new loans after the RISP II
     financing, disclaiming that during interviews of the PFIs managers, they mentioned that a
     company which already have accessed a RISP II loans are more likely in terms of “probability”
     to be granted with new/additional PFIs loans.Thus the surveyed SMEs have reported access to
     USD 24.4 million loans of which 35% where loans accessed before RISP II and 47% of total
     were PFIs loans accessed after RISP II. As for NBM indicator (he only loan sector
     classifications available on the NBM statistics), AID consultants tracked the overall bank
     portfolio lending to agricultural sector from 2.7 billion MDL in 2006 to 5.8 billion MDL in
     2012.

5.   The business key performance indicators of the surveyed SMEs prove the efficient use of
     capital, exceeding the opportunity cost of capital which has been set at 12%, exceeds total
     Moldova’s country risk premium of 15%, as well as the annual GDP (6.1% average p.a. over



                                                  42
     2009-2012) indicating a strong contribution to the economic growth. Thus based on the in
     depth analyses of the surveyed SMEs financed by RISP it was assessed, that their investments
     generates a yearly average financial earning before tax and depreciation of circa USD 7.5
     million, with an Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) equal to 27.66% and an Financial
     Net Present Value (FNPV) through the invested fixed assets useful life equal to USD 26.2
     million. These indicators underpin the efficient use of funds.

6.   Sustainable source of leaving to rural population. During the project implementation the
     2995 new jobs created experienced an annual average increase in wages of 10.75% for
     administrative personnel and 16.25% for workers; this exceeded both inflation and GDP rates.
     The jobs created by the project were equally divided between women and men. These
     indicators stress the effectiveness of the project in delivering sustainable works place for both
     men and women. In average 11 916 USD of RISP II financing (only capital, no TA) was
     needed to create 1 new job.

7.   The maturity of RISP II loans are most appreciated by rural businesses. Based on the PFIs
     survey, the average maturity of a loan accessed from PFIs own resources is 24 months. As for
     RISP II portfolio, the maturity of 24 months consists only 3% of total disbursed loans, which
     again proves the direct positive impact on businesses which invested in long term capital
     investments.

8.   It may be considered as a deficiency that the project did not make a clear objective on the
     number and total value of leasing loans in the total portfolio disbursed. Nevertheless the PAD
     of the RISP II Rural Finance Component has stressed the importance of agricultural leasing
     as an efficient financing instrument to help overcome the persistent lack of sufficient assets to
     pledge and acceptable for the PFI collateral for investment loans to agricultural and rural
     SMEs. It was foreseen to offer the PFIs dedicated technical assistance to develop leasing
     products that would allow them to finance investment of good agricultural and rural SMEs
     that do not possess sufficient acceptable collateral. However, no PFI considered offering
     leasing products to their clients and thus did not request any technical assistance under the
     RISP II Rural Finance Component.

9.   The reason for the still today prevailing disinterest of all six PFIs interviewed is that the pre-
     dominant financial leasing (combining a lease with a purchase arrangement) is impeded by
     being subject to the full 20% value added tax regime and the underdeveloped regulatory
     framework. The leasing market is heavily concentrated on consumer leases for limousine cars
     and other vehicles. Financial leasing is pre-dominant in Moldova whereas operational leasing
     is almost non-existing. Nevertheless RISP II could have undertaken more efforts - in
     collaboration with other donors - to help improve the leasing regulatory framework and to
     offer subsequently TA to the PFIs in leasing product development as originally planned by
     RISP II in the PAD.

10. The assessment confirmed the conclusions that financing to agricultural SMEs in Moldova, in
    general, and particularly for larger investments with longer maturity compared to PFIs
    resources is one of the main constraints of the sector. The average PFI’s loan maturity do not
    exceed 24 months, with exception for “best clients” when such loan could be extended to 36
    month, which still is unsatisfactory for long term investments, especially in agriculture. The
    main causes of this constraint were: (i) lack of finance for long term investments in
    agriculture; (ii) low institutional and administrative absorption capacity (iii) banks and
    financial intermediaries lending practices.



                                                  43
11. Appropriateness of lending conditions: The SMEs owners were asked whether they
    experienced any deviations from requested loan conditions in terms of loan amount, loan tenor,
    and loan repayment schedule, including requested grace periods. All entrepreneurs were
    completely satisfied, as they received the loan conditions they requested for. This can largely
    be explained by the professional business plan support under the RISP II Rural Business
    Development Component. The PFIs confirmed the importance of the business consultants in
    preparing good business plans, though one PFI mentioned that some business plans were
    overoptimistic.

12. Most interviewed entrepreneurs complained about the strict loan collateral requirements and
    the pressure exercised by their banks to accept a mortgage on their house. Thus the PFIs are
    rather conservative in their loan collateral requirements by accepting only about 50% of the
    market value (in real terms) of the financed equipment, machinery or vehicle. In addition, they
    request such collateral that amounts to at least 150% and in some cases well beyond 200%
    of the loan amount. The AID consultants observed that the PFIs insisted in most cases on a
    mortgage on the client´s house. This is not a client-friendly practice, as it creates unnecessary
    social pressure from less business knowledgeable and entrepreneurial family members, having
    them to co-sign the loan agreement, plus it binds the entrepreneur to the bank and strongly
    restricts his/her capacity to obtain further loans from other banks. It should be mentioned that -
    in the still delicate economic situation - the National Bank of Moldova closely supervises the
    bank´s loan provisioning which much depends on the quality and scope of loan collateral
    taken.

13. The PFIs claim that RISP II refinanced loans require three more days until the first loan
    disbursement compared to their loans refinanced by their own resources due to the submission
    and approval procedures of the CLD. The PFIs are currently very constrained in waiting for
    reflow resources to become available and had to promise some clients their disbursements
    only in a few months from now, providing bridge loans until CLD would disburse the reflow
    funds.

14. In terms of the loan portfolio quality the CLD also looks at the portfolio-at-risk ration of 60
    days (thereafter referred to “PAR60days”) of the PFIs as a secondary indicator of portfolio
    quality of their overall loan portfolio and the RISP II refinanced loans. The loan recovery ratio
    is a less adequate indicator for portfolio quality so that the CLD is not using it as a key
    monitoring indicator for the RISP II loans although the RISP II Project Appraisal Document
    (thereafter referred to “PAD”) indicates a minimum 95% loan recovery rate as target indicator
    for the RISP II portfolio quality. However, no loan default has been reported by PFIs to date.

15. Market-based interest rates. Market-based interest rates provide for the financial
    sustainability of intermediating institutions. Even thou RISP II loans provided lower interest
    rates compared to the banking system, is had minor effects on the rural business welfare. It is
    clear that incrementally analyzing the loan terms, a shorter PFI loan of 24 month would
    generate less interest costs to the business compared to a RISP II loan with an average 60
    month principal repayment and respectively with a higher interest costs, even if the RISP II
    interest rate was less averagely by 4.7%. The main accent which impacted project
    beneficiaries was the maturity of loans and the beneficial repayment schedule, which at the
    end of the day were the main factors which reduced rural SMEs default risks. Thus subsidized
    interest rate is not the answer. As proof there was almost no difference in payback period
    (including discount payback period) at the analyzed businesses, comparing RISP loans to PFIs
    loans, i.e. the interest expenses nearly had no sizable impact on SMEs profits.



                                                  44
16. The major effect of the rural finance component was on the small and medium companies,
    which largely/entirely relied on RISP II resources, or as assessed in this document companies
    with a larger RISP share in their total loan portfolio experience a greater impact of the RISP
    project. SMEs with less than 30% RISP II share in total loan portfolio proved to be the more
    indebt companies, thus RISP source had minor effect on their development/expansion. The
    other groups of companies tend to invest more of own equity and coped with larger RISP II
    share, experience a greater effect out of RISP II lending program.

 As sample SMEs with more than 50% RISP II loan share in total loan portfolio, have increased
 their revenues due to RISP II investment by additional 0.72 - 1.00 dollars per each invested RISP
 II dollar. Thus large companies which attracted various loans outside RISP II had little effect
 from the RISP II financing, and vice versa, small companies which predominantly/entirely relied
 on RISP II loans have the greatest effect from RISP II loans by almost doubling their revenues for
 each invested RISP II dollar, compared to 0.43 cents for entire group of SMEs. Also it should be
 taken into account that without a clear client targeting, appointed Service Providers tend to
 intermediate larger number of loans rather than looking for qualitative clients which would be
 better suitable for RISP II objective “the project’s second phase objective is to continue to foster
 post-privatization growth in the agricultural sector by improving access of new private farmers
 and rural businesses to what they need to succeed – legal ownership status, knowledge, know-
 how and finance. ” Companies with large PFI loan portfolio and lower RISP II share as overall,
 more likely that won’t seek RISP II loans for their business extension but rather finance small
 portion of their assets with no accountable effect on the business as a whole.


 Land Re-parceling Component
  Although a final IA was prepared for the Land Re-parceling component in June 2013, a more
  comprehensive IA analysis was prepared in May 2011 after the pilot re-parceling activities had
  been completed in 6 villages in 2009. This report, hence, presents a summary of findings of the
  IA that was prepared in May 2011.
1.   The survey conducted on the basis of interviews with 60 farms that participated to the re-
     parceling component of the RISP II project (beneficiaries‟ group) and 15 farms which were
     not part of the said project (control group) has highlighted an increase in economic efficiency
     of the beneficiary group farms.
2.   The farms which benefited from land re-parceling worked, in 2010, average areas that were
     larger than before re-parceling, especially with regard to growing intensive crops. RISP II
     beneficiary farms work areas that are considerably larger than the areas worked by the control
     group farms. Similar trends are confirmed for the number of livestock that is bred, which
     means that the beneficiary farms increased the number of livestock they breed, being, at the
     same time, higher than that in the control group.
3.   The productivity of the farming land expressed in value (gross incomes per hectare) in 2010 is
     higher against the productivity before re-parceling for all main farming crops, except for
     potato, ranging from 3.6% to 59.5%. In comparison to the control group, the beneficiary farms
     have higher productivity for intensive crop growing (fruits and grapes), however lower for
     growing cereals.
4.   The farms which benefited from re-parceling have considerably decreased their costs for the
     main farming crops by between 16.5% and 31.5% against the period before re-parceling. In
     2010, in spite of having, as a rule, higher variable costs per hectare, the beneficiary farms have
     had lower costs for all basic farming crops then the control group farms, except for wheat.




                                                  45
5.   As a result of the re-parceling project, the beneficiary farms have built upon their commercial
     skills, so that 76% of them had sales lower than 10 thousand lei before re-parceling and in
     2010, the most of them (66%) stated sales between 10 thousand and 50 thousand lei.
6.   During the period following land re-parceling, the structure of gross incomes obtained by the
     beneficiary farms changed, becoming more balanced (18% of incomes were from growing
     wheat, fruits and grapes each, 17% from growing cucurbitaceous crops, 12% from growing
     sunflower, 11% from growing maize and only 5% from growing leguminous plants). At the
     same time, one can ascertain that in the structure of gross incomes obtained by the farms
     which participated to land re-parceling, intensive crops (perennial plantations) prevail, while
     in the gross incomes obtained by the control group farms, extensive crops (cereals) prevail.
7.   The increase in economic efficiency of the RISP land re-parceling beneficiary farms is
     confirmed by the dynamic of the gross margin per hectare and the gross margin rate, which
     have gone up for all basic farming crops without exception. As a result of agricultural land re-
     parceling, the mean gross margin per farm has gone up from 780 lei/ha to 1770 lei/ha, which
     is a 2.3 times increase. In comparison with the control group, the RISP II beneficiaries
     registered a much higher gross margin, except for the gross margin obtained from growing
     wheat.
8.   Better economic results attained by the beneficiary group farms are also confirmed by the fact
     that they have managed, in a rather short period of time, to increase their production resources
     – number of equipment, machines and means of transportation, areas of lands worked, number
     of livestock, as well as the number of employed workforce. As a result, the number of farm
     members which have contributed to family budget has grown from 2.26 to 2.44 or by 8.0%.




                                                 46
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

On 28 June, the final conference dedicated to the completion of the Second Rural Investment and
Services Project (RISP II) was held. The event was attended by 70 participants: representatives of
ministries, donors, project implementing partners and beneficiaries.

The conference presented the results obtained during the project implementation, the findings of
the impact assessment studies, and few success stories of beneficiaries of RISP II. The Minister
of Agriculture, Mr. Vasile Bumacov offered Diplomas of Excellence for the most active project
beneficiaries, donors, service providers and partners.

Also, during the final conference dedicated to RISP II a new World Bank Project on Agriculture
Competitiveness in Moldova (MAC-P) was presented. MAC-P is also co-funded by the Swedish
Government, the Global Environment Facility and the Government of Moldova. The project is
being implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry and the Ministry of
Environment.




                                               47
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    48
The following section was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry of the
Republic of Moldova.

Overall Conclusion

On behalf of the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry fully agrees with the
assessment of the Project Implementation presented in the present ICR and expresses its deep
interest in continuing a fruitful cooperation with the Bank in implementation of other two
strategic projects: Moldova Agriculture Competitiveness Project (MAC-P) and Agriculture
Emergency Support Project.

Project Objectives and Design

The project’s second phase objective was to continue to foster post-privatization growth in the
agricultural sector by improving access of new private farmers and rural businesses to what they
need to succeed – legal ownership status, knowledge, know-how and finance, while building
capacity of public and private institutions to ensure sustainability of activities.

The Second Rural Advisory Service Project (RISP2) was built on success achieved under the
RISP I, by:
    • strengthening and expanding the rural advisory services;
    • improving business skills of the to-be entrepreneurs and assisting with the legal
        registration of the new businesses;
    • upgrading the financial sector environment through a range of risk management measures,
        such as supervision capacity building, and introduction of new lending instruments such
        as leasing;
    • increase the commercial banking sector outreach into rural areas; and
    • developing a practical approach to reducing transaction costs in land markets.
The Ministry notes also that the design and conceptual content of the RISP2 fully met farmers’
needs and market demands and proved its efficiency and effectiveness. Finally, analysis of the
experience accrued during RISP2 implementation has created premises to foster Government
support to enhance the competitiveness of agro-industrial products by supporting the
modernization of the food safety management system; facilitating market access for farmers; and
mainstreaming agro-environmental and sustainable land management practices. All these
objectives have been set in a new investment project: Agriculture Competitiveness in Moldova.

Project Implementation
Project Coordination and Management

The Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management Unit (CAPMU) is managing all WB/IDA
projects in the agriculture and rural sectors and has been the key agency responsible for
coordinating preparation of the projects. Since 1999, CAPMU has been successfully
implementing over 10 projects in: agriculture, know-how, business development support, rural
finance, rural development, youth socio-economic empowerment, avian influenza control,
emergency response, etc.
CAPMU has managed to perform high quality fiduciary coordination of the implementation of all
project components. Following the set up responsibilities in line with the Government Decision
878, as of September 29, 1999, CAPMU has been assisting MAFI with the procurement of goods,
works and services in line with World Bank procurement guidelines. The Unit also managed to
ensure knowledge transfer to Component Coordinators designated by MAFI, thus, has built the



                                              49
capacity of the Implementing Agencies to ensure sustainability of activities after the closing of
RISP2. The designated accounts, control of disbursements and payments according to eligible
project activities have been provided in time with no project delays. Annual audits of project
accounts are proof on correctness of procurement and disbursements made.
CAPMU staff has a wide experience in implementation of the World Bank financed projects and
experience in assisting to other international donor financed projects. CAPMU is equipped with
the all necessary office spaces, logistic equipment, transportation means to be able to implement
and monitor every project.

Rural Advisory Service Component

The National Network of RAS (NNRAS) component has been a fundamental and integral part of
the Second Rural Investment and Services Project. The objective of the program, consisted of
providing long-term support to accelerate agricultural regeneration and growth, so that Moldova's
agricultural and rural sectors can play their full role, supporting future revenue growth and
poverty reduction.

NNRAS provided information, advice and training services during RISP2 through its network of
35 local service providers (SP) with a total of 425 consultants of which: 350 consultants - located
within the mayor’s offices in the villages and 75 at regional level (including 5 agricultural
marketing consultants).

The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry acknowledges that NNRAS is directly present in
386 communities of the Republic of Moldova, which constitutes over 26% of all villages in the
country (41% of the villages which have own mayoralties). NNRAS succeed an impressive
geographical coverage of 41.1% of the population (or 40.9 of households) and 32% of total
agricultural land of the country. These are very important indicators regarding the access of
potential beneficiaries to consulting services and absorption of provided information. Moreover,
RAS network has a 52% coverage rate of the total processed land by peasant farms.

RAS Network has produced positive changes among beneficiaries, and namely: at the end of the
RISP2 there were 15.6% increased of the number of beneficiaries applying semi-intensive
cultivation technologies, with increase of 3.7% farmers applying intensive technologies and with
19.4% reduction of those who use ordinary technology.

It should also be noted that there was a positive trend under RISP2 in provision of economic
advisory services, which enjoyed a greater interest and constituted over 30% of the total
compared to RISP I. Technological consultations decreased from over 75% in RISP I to only
55.9% in RISP2. This is explained by the fact that the beneficiaries have difficulty in accessing
economic information, thus accessing this type of information helps them to manage their
business more effectively.

The final Impact Assessment Study on RISP2 in 2013 revealed significant improvements in farms’
operation efficiency: 54% of adoption rates of technical recommendations of NNRAS consultants,
73% of beneficiaries reported increase in incomes, 69% of beneficiaries reported increase in
productivity. Every MDL invested by the project in NNRAS brought 3.38lei in beneficiaries’
productivity.

MAFI believes that the NNRAS launched under RISP2 and developed under RISP2 is the most
representative structure that provides agricultural consulting and is recognized by both
beneficiaries and donors, as a network with a high potential for implementation. As a result of


                                                50
completion of RISP2, Moldova has a national well-organized and functional network, composed
of trained and experienced consultants, who have the skills to implement agricultural advisory
services based on specific requests from beneficiaries. The Government has fully picked up the
financing of the NNRAS starting with 2013 and a 4 years contract has been competitively
awarded to the National Agency for Rural Development (ACSA), which successfully
administrated all previous NNRAS contracts.

Rural Business Development Component

Four business development agencies contributed to the creation and operation of rural businesses
in Moldova. These development agencies provided technical assistance to (potential) rural
entrepreneurs in the formulation of business opportunities, preparation of business plans,
facilitation of access to finance from financial institutions and post financing support.

MAFI reiterates the impact of this component on the first time borrowers from rural areas, given
that 98% of businesses managed to obtain financing from financial institutions. Therefore, as a
result of Development Agencies support 1,038 businesses received first time financing support
from participating institutions and created 2,645 jobs in a wide range of sectors, including
agriculture and livestock (53%), trade (8.6%), food and beverage production (6%), transport
(5.7%), and various manufacturing (10.7%).

The average age of RB owners is 37 years, of women managers – 38 years, of men – 36.5 years.
The share of employment of women and men is 35% and 65% respectively.

About 40% of the RBs created with the project support are managed by youth (18-30 years old).
This result can be explained by the fact that every second RB managed by youth got financing
through the National Program of Economic Empowerment of Youth (PNAET). Almost 60% of
the RBs have been financed from direct RISP sources and another 22% from banks’ own
resources. The Ministry appreciates highly the close link established between the PFIs and DAs
as well as RISP2 approach in providing business development support to all first time borrowers
regardless the financing source.

Also, a low cost approach applied within this component, to support the services provided by
these 4 Development Agencies had a tremendous impact on the financing and sustainability of
these institutions. For each dollar invested, about $2.5 of taxes were generated in the first two
years of business operations. Moreover, these NGOs have managed to create a solid base of
clientele and are operational at regional level. Taxes collected from businesses monitored within a
period of 12 months amounted to 11, 758 million lei.

Rural Finance Component

From the Project’s launching, a total of 470 of loans have been disbursed to 191 rural localities,
of which, 135 disbursed to rural villages, 41 to rural towns and 15 to villages surrounding capital
Chisinau that have been selected for financing according to the targeting procedure of the project.
During the entire period of the RISP2 activity, the total value of loans disbursed reached USD 30
588 897, out which USD 23 947 916 represented RISP2 funds and USD 6 640 981 PFIs co-
financing.

An important statement related to investments refers to beneficiaries’ contribution, which
represented around 65% of the investment reaching up 82 708 583 USD. These investments
contributed directly to business growth and led to rural economic development. Considering the


                                                51
scope of investment, the Ministry highly appreciates that RISP2 has managed to maintain a
diversified portfolio, financing being evenly disbursed among a series of investment types. In this
regard 40% were disbursed to agriculture/agro-processing scope of businesses, 15% to industrial
sector, 12% to commercial sector, 10% for transportation sector and 21% to other activities.

Seven selected PFIs participated in the financing of rural SMEs, which resulted in financing of
470 SMEs and boosted the creation of more than 2700 working places. Banks’ participation in the
project proved their willingness to extend their outreach into the rural and agricultural sectors and
the boost. Also, market-based interest rates applied within the project provided for the financial
sustainability of intermediating institutions.

Another important aspect related to RISP2 credit lines refers to WB ability to respond to
emergency situations in agriculture caused by weather conditions, like draught from 2007 and the
additional financing provided by the WB to adapt draught consequences by financing investments
in small scale irrigation systems with 20% grant. Even though the special credit line dedicated to
irrigation equipment which failed to disburse during its first two years of implementation, due to
heavy precipitations, and had to be restructured according to MAFI objectives, by creating
incentives for minimum till agriculture in Moldova, it eventually reached its initial objective of
3,000 rehabilitated hectares or irrigated land.

Also, part of the Rural Finance Component the strengthening of the SCA sector and National
Commission for Financial Market capacity is to be mentioned. With project assistance, the
NCFM managed to upgrade the legal and regulatory framework for SCAs functionality as well as
design and implement methodologies for on- and off-site inspections and risk-based monitoring.
This support was provided in time, taken into account the financial crisis from 2008 that severely
affected the SCA industry. RISP2 interventions at regulatory and SCA supervisory and risk
assessment support.

Land Re-parceling Pilot Project

The land fragmentation of agricultural land, has become, one of the main problems of agriculture
sector in Moldova in the period after privatization. The land re-parceling was first piloted in 6
selected villages (2007-2009) with a later on spread on 40 villages (2009-2010). The target group
was the owners of agricultural land with surfaces between 3-30 hectares. All costs related to land
transactions were fully paid by the project. MAFI appreciated WB openness to extend the pilot
project from 6 to 40 villages.

As a result of the implementation of the pilot project, the number of plots in the six localities was
reduced from 7220 to 5515. The average number of plots belonging to an owner reduced from
3.74 to 3.32 plots. An area of 1776 ha changed owners as a result of 3612 transactions, based on
different methods such as: sale and purchase, exchange and inheritance. The level of participation
of the selected beneficiaries (of total land owners) represented 40%, which was appreciated as
remarkable result.

The Ministry appreciated the economic impact of land re-parceling, as farms which benefited
from agricultural land re-parceling project within RISP2 reported to have obtained higher gross
incomes and had higher per hectare returns compared to farms which were not covered by the
pilot project. Also, it is noticeable that the cost of re-parceling/consolidation of one transaction
within the project constituted 115 MDL compared to 500-700 lei per one transaction with existing
market price outside the project conditions.



                                                 52
Assessment of Project Effectiveness and Sustainability

The Ministry of Agriculture rates the project’s effectiveness as satisfactory. The most tangible
project achievements to date represent a proof of their further sustainability:
    1) General analysis of the economic impact to NNRAS beneficiaries resulted in 371.3
         million lei extra production value obtained. This effect is substantial and important to
         rural income growth and poverty reduction. NNRAS helped to increase farmers' income
         and welfare. During RISP2 implementation for each MDL spent for NNRAS support
         additional 3.82lei in extra value was generated. This additional revenue contributed to
         improving of the living standards of the rural population of the country.
    2) The National Network of Rural Advisory Services (NNRAS) has the necessary legal
         framework regulating the work of rural advisory service in the Republic of Moldova
         (Government Decision on the approval of the Development strategy for rural advisory
         services for 2012-2022 years) that ensure its functionality;
    3) The Government has managed to continue to support the provision of Rural Advisory
         Services under public financing, to help the poor population to ensure the minimum of
         subsistence, to move gradually from subsistence activities toward more commercial
         operations, and respectively, to obtain a stable income;
    4) NNRAS has managed to establish good relations of cooperation with local authorities at
        all levels, decentralized services and specialized state organizations, non-governmental
        organizations. For instance, Rural advisory network is actively involved in working with
        MAFI and AIPA for subsidizing agricultural producers and namely by organizing
        informational campaigns at national, district and local levels and provision of support to
        beneficiaries in developing business plans and preparation of applications packages for
        state subsidies;
    5) Over the project life about 2645 new jobs have been opened within 1038 Rural Business
        (RB) established with the Rural Business Development Component support, while every
        5th staff has been unemployed. The average number of employees per RB is 3, while at
        the same time 1/3 of the new jobs are occupied by women. So, it can be mentioned that
        every RB created within and with the support of the project generates, on average, one
        job which is taken by a woman. Besides the financing from the financial institutions,
        every 3rd RB used remittances from their close relatives for starting the business.
    6) 90% of the Rural Finance component’s beneficiaries have increased their income as a
         result of project intervention. The RISP2’s Rural Finance Component has been quite
         effective in contributing significantly to the income and employment generation.
    7) The RISP2 Rural Finance Component has significantly contributed to the growth in
         lending to the agricultural and rural sectors. RISP2 credit line has contributed to the
         enhancement of the overall bank portfolio lending to the agricultural sector from 2.7
         billion MDL in 2006 to 5.8 billion MDL in 2012.
    8) Moreover, rural SME’s beneficiaries of the RISP2 have affirmed an increase in sales after
         accessing project loans, totaling to almost USD 13 million or USD 0.43 per every
         disbursed RISP2I dollar (due RISP loan).
    9) The results of the implementation of the re-parceling pilot project led to the development
         of a national Farm Land Consolidation Program. Thus the MAIA with the RISP2 support
         and FAO have developed the Land Consolidation Strategy for the years 2012-2027,
         which is expected to be approved in 2013 as part of a general strategy for agriculture and
         rural development.

World Bank Performance




                                                53
The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry is satisfied with Bank's ongoing supervision over
the implementation of the RISP2 and its openness towards all requests related to Moldovan
agricultural needs. Also, the Ministry highly appreciates the project support in strengthening
AIPA institutional capacity over the last years.
The former Project Task Team Leader, Mr. Piere Olivier Colleye and the newly appointed Project
Task Team Leader, Mr. Anatol Gobjila and the support team demonstrated high professionalism,
flexibility and openness towards solving all project related issues, which contributed to the fact
that the results achieved during project implementation are noticeable.

Main Lessons Learned

The problem of insufficient collateral still remains the main obstacle in access to credit for
agricultural producers, especially for small ones. The Ministry believed that different leasing
schemes would be an effective solving of this problem. However, PFIs did not consider offering
leasing products to their clients and thus didn’t request any technical assistance under the RISP2
Rural Finance Component. RISP2 could have undertaken more efforts - in collaboration with
other donors - to help improve the leasing regulatory framework and to offer subsequently TA to
the PFIs in leasing product development as originally planned by RISP2.

Even though RISP2 loans provided lower interest rates compared to the banking system, it had
minor effects on the rural business welfare. The main accent which impacted project beneficiaries
was the maturity of loans and the beneficial repayment schedule, which at the end of the day were
the main factors which reduced rural SMEs default risks.

The instrument of land re-parceling which was used during the project implementation proved to
be enough flexible and suitable to be in line with the integrated approach towards the
development of rural areas and is in line with the present EU rural development policy.
Nevertheless, land re-parceling/land consolidation in Europe, is seen as the instrument to
facilitate (not substitute) the land market development thus creating attractiveness for investment.
There would be needed to take into consideration the possibilities to use land consolidation as a
tool for accelerating land market development in Moldova.




                                                54
55
56
57
58
59
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The draft ICR was shared with Sida. A response was received from Mr. Henrik Huitfeldt,
Counsellor/ Head of Development Cooperation in Embassy of Sweden in Moldova on December
5, 2013 where Mr. Huitfeldt stated that “the report is comprehensive, containing all relevant
information such as achieved results against the benchmarks, lessons learnt, sustainability, and
ownership.” In addition, he mentioned that Sida has no additional comments to the report.




                                              60
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Document, Moldova Second Rural Investment and Services Project In Support
of the Second Phase Rural Investment Services Program (Adaptable Program Lending, February
2, 2006); Report No.: 35377-MD;

AF & Restructuring Project Papers (AF Project Paper dated April 17, 2008 No.:4315-MD; AF
Project Paper dated April 17, 2009 No.:4784-MD; Restructuring Paper dated October 5, 2011
No.: 62687-MD; Restructuring Paper dated April 10, 2012 No.: 67714-MD);

Project Aide Memoirs and ISRs;

CAPMU Annual Project Progress Reports;

Project Mid-Term and Final Impact Assessments;

Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2004-2006) of the Government of
Moldova, May 2004;

Moldovan Village Program of the Government of Moldova, March 2005;

Agricultural Policy Notes, World Bank, June 2006;

Moldova: Opportunities for Accelerated Growth, Country Economic Memorandum, World Bank,
September 2005

Country Assistance Strategy (FY05-FY08), World Bank, December 2004;

Country Assistance Strategy (FY09-FY12), World Bank, December 2008;

Country Assistance Strategy (FY14-FY17), World Bank, August 2013;

Implementation Completion Report for RISP I, World Bank, April 2005;

Financial Sector Assessment, World Bank, March 2005;

Moldova Poverty Update 2006, World Bank, June 2006;

Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Joint IDA/IMF Staff Advisory Note, April 2006




                                             61
Annex 10. Revised Key Indicators:

Table 1
                                                                       Data Collection and Reporting
  Intermediate
                                       Target value                                               Responsibility
    Outcome          Baseline value                         Frequency and    Data Collection
                                          (YR4)                                                      for Data
   Indicators                                                  Reports          Instruments
                                                                                                    Collection
Drought Adaptation Component
Irrigation Finance Services Sub-Component
Number of
rehabilitated                                                                  Reports from DA     CAPMU and
                            0               3,000           Semi-Annually
hectares irrigated                                                                and PFIs           CLD
(cumulative)
Size of
investments in                                                                 Reports from DA     CAPMU and
                            0           US$6 million        Semi-Annually
irrigation                                                                        and PFIs           CLD
(cumulative)
Drought Adaptation Advisory Services Sub-Component
Number of
beneficiaries on                                                                Reports from        ACSA and
                            -              35,000              Quarterly
topics related to                                                                 ACSA               CAPMU
irrigation
Adoption rates of
drought                                                                         Reports from
adaptation                                                                       ACSA and           ACSA and
                            0               30%                Annually
agronomics                                                                        Impact             CAPMU
(as % of number                                                                 Assessment
of beneficiaries)

Table 2
                                                                      Data Collection and Reporting
    Outcome                            Target value                                             Responsibility
                     Baseline value                         Frequency and   Data Collection
   Indicators                             (YR6)                                                    for Data
                                                               Reports        Instruments
                                                                                                  Collection
Relative increase
in productivity in
project
beneficiaries

-Growth in
lending to
agricultural and                           10%
                                                               Quarterly       Portfolio reports   Credit Line
rural sectors in
                                                            progress reports       by PFIs         Directorate
the portfolios of
financial
intermediaries

-Percentage of
beneficiaries                              80%
whose income
has increased
Component 1: Rural Advisory Services
-Number of
beneficiaries of
                                                               Quarterly        Reporting data
services             300,000              400,000
                                                            progress reports     from ACSA
(including repeat
                                                                                                      MAFI
clients)
-Percentage of                                                                  Reporting data
revenues of            <3%                 25%              Annual reports       from ACSA,
regional and                                                                        impact



                                                       62
local consultants                                                                assessment
derived from                                                                   report, special
users or other                                                                     studies
sources outside
central
government’s
budget
Component 2: Rural Business Development
-Number of
                                                                                Report from
businesses                                                     Quarterly
                            0                600                                Development          CAPMU
created and                                                 progress reports
                                                                                 Agencies
registered
Component 3: Rural Finance
-Number of
loans disbursed
                            0                450                                 PFI reports
from the credit
facility
                                                               Quarterly                            Credit Line
-Good portfolio
                                                            progress reports                        Directorate
quality in the
                                                                               SSB and RFC
SCAs as                    5%               <5%
                                                                                 reports
measured by
PAR 30
Component 4: Land Re-Parceling Pilots
-Land re-
parceling
implemented
with                                                           Quarterly        Assessment
                            0                n/a                                                      MAFI
participation of                                            progress reports      reports
at least 30% of
the population in
40 villages
-The average
number of                                                                        Household
                                                             Baseline and
distance to                                                                    surveys in pilot     MAFI and
                            0                n/a              evaluation
parcels per                                                                      and control        CAPMU
                                                                reports
household is                                                                       villages
reduced
-Total factor                                                                    Household
                                                             Baseline and
productivity of                                                                surveys in pilot     MAFI and
                            0                n/a              evaluation
agriculture has                                                                  and control        CAPMU
                                                                reports
increased                                                                          villages
-The number and
                                                             Baseline and                         MAFI, CAPMU
size of land
                            0                n/a              evaluation       Cadastral data      and Cadastral
transactions are
                                                                reports                              Agency
increased
Component 5: Drought Adaptation Component
Irrigation Finance Services Sub-Component
Number of                                                                      Reports from
rehabilitated                                                                  Development         CAPMU and
                            0               3,000           Semi annually
hectares irrigated                                                             Agencies and          CLD
(cumulative)                                                                      PFIs
Size of                                                                        Reports from
investments in                                                                 Development         CAPMU and
                            0           US$6 million        Semi annually
irrigation                                                                     Agencies and          CLD
(cumulative)                                                                      PFIs
Drought Adaptation Advisory Services Sub-Component
Number of
beneficiaries on                                                                Reports from        ACSA and
                            -              35,000              Quarterly
topics related to                                                                 ACSA               CAPMU
irrigation
Adoption rates of           0               30%                Annually         Reports from        ACSA and



                                                       63
drought                                                                        ACSA and            CAPMU
adaptation                                                                       Impact
agronomics                                                                     Assessment
(as % of number
of beneficiaries)

Table 3
                                                                      Data Collection and Reporting
    Outcome                                                                                     Responsibility
                    Original Target   Revised Target        Frequency and   Data Collection
   Indicators                                                                                      for Data
                                                               Reports        Instruments
                                                                                                  Collection
Component 3: Rural Finance
-Number of
loans disbursed
                         0              600                                     PFI reports
from the credit
facility
Component 5: Drought Adaptation Component
Number of                                                                      Reports from      CAPMU and
rehabilitated                                                                  Development         CLD
                       3,000            700                 Semi annually
hectares irrigated                                                             Agencies and
(cumulative)                                                                      PFIs
Size of                                                                        Reports from      CAPMU and
investments in                                                                 Development         CLD
                   US$6 million    US$1.2 million           Semi annually
irrigation                                                                     Agencies and
(cumulative)                                                                      PFIs




                                                       64
Annex 11. Core Sector Indicators Results:

                                       Original Target                             Actual Value
                                        Values (from       Formally Revised         Achieved at
  Indicator      Baseline Value
                                          approval            Target Values        Completion or
                                         documents)                                Target Years
Indicator 1 : Volume of Bank Support: Lines of Credit - Microfinance
Value                                                                           1,100,000
Date achieved                                                                   03/31/2013
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 2 : Volume of Bank Support: Lines of Credit - SME
Value                               24,600,000                                  25,400,000
Date achieved                       06/30/2013                                  03/31/2013
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 3 : Volume of Bank Support: Enabling Environment - Microfinance
Value                               410,000                                     500,000
Date achieved                       06/30/2013                                  03/31/2013
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 4 : No of active loan accounts -Microfinance
Value          20,000               40,000                                      34,857
Date achieved                       06/30/2013                                  03/31/2013
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 5 : Percentage of project-supported institutions that are reporting on this indicator
Value          100 %                100 %                                       100 %
Date achieved
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 6 : No of active loan accounts -SME
Value                                                                           1,038
Date achieved                                                                   12/31/2012
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 7 : % active loans to women - Microfinance
Value          10                   20                                          37
Date achieved                       06/30/2013                                  03/31/2012
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 8 : Percentage of project-supported institutions that are reporting on this indicator
Value          0%                   100 %                                       100 %
Date achieved
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 9 : Outstanding SME Loan Portfolio
Value                                                                           83,200,000
Date achieved                                                                   03/31/2012
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 10 : Percentage of project-supported institutions that are reporting on this indicator
Value                                                                           100 %
Date achieved
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.


                                               65
Indicator 11 : Outstanding Microfinance Loan Portfolio
Value                                                                           22,000,000
Date achieved                                                                   03/31/2011
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 12 : Percentage of project-supported institutions that are reporting on this indicator
Value                                                                           100 %
Date achieved
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 13 : Volume of Bank Support: Institutional Development - Microfinance
Value                               50,000                                      145,000
Date achieved                       06/30/2013                                  03/31/2013
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.
Indicator 14 : Volume of Bank Support: Institutional Development - SME
Value                               280,000                                     300,000
Date achieved                       06/30/2013                                  03/31/2013
Comments       This indicator is monitoring purpose only.




                                                66
