- FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME14T
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For ublic Use
Rport No.  132a-CO
APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
COLOMBIA
June 11, 1973
Education Projects Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for offal usn only by the Bank Group. It may not be publihed, quoted
of cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completnes of the report.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00                      22.50 Pesos
I Peso             -         1J$044&i
1 minlion Pesos              us-0
Meaures
1 n 2              "         10.76 sq. ft.
1km                           o 0.62 mL.
1km2               -          0.38 sq. mi.
1 hectare          -          2.47 acres
Fiacal Year
January 1  - December 31



GLOSSARY
ACPO               -   Accion Cultural Popular (Popular Cultural Action), a
private organization, promoting education through
radio schools.
CPU               -    Common Facilities Center, an institution providing
workshop and laboratory facilities for diversified
secondary education.
ICCE              -   Instituto Colombiano de Construcciones Escolares
(Colombian Institute for School Construction),
a semi-autonomous agency responsible for implementing
the Bank-financed education projects, and also for
construction of Government school buildings.
ICFES             -    Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la Educacion
Superior (Colombian Institute for the Development
of Higher Education), a semi-autonomous agency
responsible for coordinating and planning higher
education.
ICOLPE            -   Instituto Colombiano de Pedagogia (Colombian
Pedagogical Institute), a semi-autonomous agency
responsible for educational research and developing
educational materials especially at the primary
school level.
INEM              -    Instituto Nacional de Educacion Media (diversified
secondary schools), offering a diversified curriculum
that integrates practical and academic subjects.
RCS               -   Rural Comprehensive School, a lower-secondary school
which offers a diversified curriculum and forms the
basis for an education extension service supporting
the rural development program in the particular
region.
SENA              -   Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Appren-
ticeship Service), a semi-autonomous agency offering
specialized courses for workers in agricultural,
industrial and commercial subjects in its training
centers throughout the country.






COLOMIA.
BASIC DATA
Area                                                           1,139,000 km2
Population (1972)                                                   23.0 xU.lion
Population Growth                                                 3.2% p.a.
Urban Population (in towns with over 20,000)
GDP (1970)
TiM market prices)                                            Pesos  130 billion
GDP per Capita (1970)                                      US$    325
Annual Growth of GDP in Real Terms (1960-1970)                    5.2%
National Government's BUdget as Proportion of
GDP (1970)                                                14.1%
Literacy Rate (1972)                                                  74%
&irollment Ratios (1970)
(including over-aged)
Primary                                                            99%
Secondary                                                          19%
Higher                                                            3.5%
Education Expenditures (1970)
(as proportion of GDP)
Public                                                            3.7%
Private                                                           1.1%
Total                                                             4.8%






COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................   i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION         ..................................    1
II.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND .............                   1
III.   EDUCATION AND TRAINING ......   ....................      3
General .................. .                    ..        3
The Education and Training System ....     ...........    4
Education Development Strategy         .     .    .       7
IV.   EDUCATION FINANCE .....            ... ........           8
Expenditures, Past and Present ........                   8
Future Education Expenditures ...........                9
V.   THE PROJECT ...oo ...                     ..........    10
General ......... o...........                           10
Common Facilities Centers ........                      11
Rural Comprehensive Schools  .......                    13
Technical Teacher Training Program ................     14
Rural Development Services' Center ...... o.o ..... oo.    16
Sector Studies .... .     ....        ....      ..-.     16
Technical Assistance            ................  o..    17
Follow-up Evaluation of the Project .........    18
Cost of the Project        ...................           18
VI.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT.                .        21
VII.   AGREEMENTS ANI) RECOMMENDATIONS .......  oo...........   22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia in November 1972. The mission consisted of Messrs. B.A. Thoolen
(economist), H. Leavitt (general educator), A. Stam (architect), A.G. Apodaca
(FAO agricultural educator) and H. Baritsch (Unesco technical educator).






APPENDICES
A. Education and Training
B. Location of Project Institutions
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Latin America Education Indicators
3. GDP and Employment, 1970-1980
4. Outputs of the Formal Education System, 1960-1968 and 1969
5. Enrollment by Grade and Controlling Authority, 1968
6. Enrollment and Teachers by Type of Education, 1968
7. School-Age Population and Enrollment Projections, 1970-1980
8. Sources of Education Finance, 1965 and 1970
9.  Education Expenditures by Level, 1970
10. Education Expenditures, 1970-1980
11. Curriculum for Diversified Secondary Education
12.  CFC's:  Enrollment in Designated Participating Schools, 1972 and 1978
13.  CFC's:  Projected Numbers of Graduates
14.  CFC's:  Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Requirements
15.  RCS's:  Enrollment and Teaching Staff of Project-Connected Primary Schools
16. RCS's:  Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Requirements
17. Technical Teacher Training Program: Requirements for Project and
Project-Related Secondary Schools, 1974-1977
18.  UNDP Technical Assistance Program
19. Summary of Project Cost
20. Unit Capital Costs in Project Institutions
21. Contingency Allowances
22.  Project Implementation Schedule
23. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
1. Education Sector: Organization Chart, 1972
2. Structure of Formal Education, 1972
3. Population and School Enrollment by Age, 1968
4. Secondary School Enrollment, 1964-1980
5. Flow Chart Diversified Secondary Education
6. CFC's: Operational and Decision Flow Chart
MAP






COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the extension of a major reform
of secondary education and for the expansion of education and training in
rural areas for which a Bank loan of US$21.2 million equivalent is proposed.
Colombia's secondary education reform is being implemented on a pilot basis
in 19 new diversified secondary schools (INEM's) established with the help of
two Bank loans, one of US$7.6 million in 1968 (No. 552-CO) and one of US$6.5
million in 1970 (No. 679-CO). The physical execution of the first and second
projects has been slower than expected, but the main bottleneck, the procure-
ment of equipment and furniture, is being overcome through strengthening the
implementation agency's procurement capacity. The new diversified curriculum
is being implemented properly and a number of innovations have been introduced
successfully. As a result, the INEM's are having an impact on the whole edu-
cation system.
ii.       The two projects under execution and the proposed third project are
concerned with correcting the main deficiency in Colombia's education system,
namely, the lack of relevance of most secondary education programs. Academic
education prevails, which prepares students only for university entrance and
does not produce the trained manpower needed for social and economic develop-
ment. The Government gives high priority to the expansion of diversified
secondary education which integrates practical and academic subjects into a
properly balanced general education program and prepares students for a broad
range of possible employment and further training. This shift away from the
academic bias will help to meet Colombia's manpower needs while at the same
time reducing the pressure on the universities. The proposed third education
project would build on the experience gained in the INEM's and would assist
the Government in its policy of expanding diversified education throughout
the secondary level. The first stage of the reform was the establishment
of new schools in the large cities. The logical next stage is the extension
of diversified secondary education to existing schools in medium-size cities
and to rural areas.
iii.      The implementation of the diversified secondary curriculum requires
workshops and laboratory facilities which are lacking in existing secondary
schools.  Because the schools are generally of small, uneconomic size, these
facilities should be concentrated in facilities centers for common use by
groups of existing schools. The technical teachers needed for the envisaged
expansion of diversified secondary education will be trained under a special
program, since the present supply of technical teachers is insufficient.
iv.       To reverse the trend of a widening gap in living standards between
urban and rural areas, the Government is giving more emphasis to increasing
agricultural productivity and improving basic services in rural areas. The
Government intends to establish rural comprehensive schools in regions where
development programs are being carried out. These institutions will provide
the opportunity for lower secondary education which presently is lacking and



- ii -
be the basis for an education extension service needed to support rural de-
velopment. In Colombia several models for integrated rural development are
being tested. The rural development services' center in Las Gaviotas is de-
veloping into a model for the vast area of the Eastern Plains and an exten-
sion of this center is required.
v.        In addition to the secondary education reform, already being imple-
mented, the Government has now defined the broad outlines of an education re-
_orm at all levels and is formulating a comprehensive strategy for education
development, which would be based on the outcome of a forthcoming sector sur-
vey and specific sector studies, e.g., a mid-term assessment of experiences
with the existing INEM's and a comprehensive manpower study, which would form
the basis for further Bank lending in education.
vi.       The proposed project would help the Government to meet the above
needs. It would consist of:
(a)  24 common facilities centers;
(b)  13 rural comprehensive schools;
(c)  a technical teacher training program;
(d)  extension of a rural development services' center;
(e)  assistance for a sector survey and for sector studies.
vii.      The Instituto uolombiano de Construcciones Escolares, ICCE, is re-
sponsible for the implementation of the first and second education projects
and would also be the project unit for the proposed project. ICCE will super-
vise construction and equipping of all project institutions and carry out the
major part of the design work. Contracting of civil works and procurement of
equipment and furniture would be based on international competitive bidding,
but it is expected that only the equipment component will attract foreign
bidders. A preferential margin (equal to 15% of c.i.f. basic prices or the
existing import duty, whichever is lower) would be accorded to domestic manu-
facturers. Colombia is a member of LAFTA and the Andean Pact; preferential
treatment under these agreements, however, is irrelevant for this project
since ICCE is exempted from import duties.
viii.     The total project cost is estimated at US$33.5 million.  The pro-
posed loan of US$21.2 million would finance: (i) the estimated foreign ex-
change cost of US$16.9 million; (ii) US$2.0 million for the local currency
component of the ex-factory cost of equipment and furniture, for which local
suppliers are likely to win the contracts under international competitive
bidding; (iii) US$0.5 million for the local cost of technical assistance which
ACPO, a Colombian institution, would be best qualified to provide; (iv) US$0.2
million for the local cost of civil works for the rural development services'
center; and (v) US$1.6 million of interest and other charges during construc-
tion. The remainder of the ca.pital funds would be provided by the Government
and is within its financial capability. The funds would be disbursed over a
3-1/2 year period.
ix.       Subject to the provisions in Chapter VII of this report, the proposed
pro-ect is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.2 million to the Republic of
Cozombia for a period of 30 years including a grace period of ten years.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a third education project in Colombia for
which a Bank loan of US$21.2 million equivalent to the Republic of Colombia
is proposed. The first and second education projects (1968 and 1970) assisted
the Govermnent in the implementation of the first stage of a major secondary
education reform program by establishing, on a pilot basis, 19 large diver-
sified secondary schools (INEM's) in the larger cities. The physical execu-
tion of the first and second projects has been slower than expected, but ini-
tial shortcomings are being overcome and both projects should be completed
before the end of 1973.
1.02      The INEM's introduced a number of innovations in Colombia's educa-
tion system, and the original objectives of more relevant education and im-
proved efficiency are being achieved. The logical next stage of the reform
program is an extension of diversified education to existing secondary schools
in medium-size cities and to rural areas. This second stage is now timely;
it would provide continuity by making efficient use of local expertise built
up under the earlier projects.
1.03      Towards this end the Government has requested financial assistance
from the Bank for the establishment of: (i) 25 common facilities centers;
(ii) 13 rural comprehensive schools; and (iii) an emergency program for the
training of technical teachers. An appraisal mission consisting of Messrs.
B.A. Thoolen (economist), H. Leavitt (general educator), A. Stam (architect),
A.G. Apodaca (FAO agricultural educator) and H. Baritsch (Unesco technical
educator) visited Colombia in November 1972. During appraisal the Govern-
ment's request was modified by increasing the size of the common facilities
centers, allowing substantial economies in initial capital investment per
student place and in operation, and by deleting one center which would be
of uneconomic size. Further, the project was expanded to include an exten-
sion of the Las Gaviotas rural development services' center and technical
assistance for a sector survey and for sector studies.
1.04      The project as appraised consists of:  (i) construction and equip-
ping of 24 common facilities centers; (ii) construction and equipping of 13
rural comprehensive schools; (iii) supplementary equipment to carry out a
special program for the training of technical teachers; (iv) an extension
of the rural development services' center in Las Gaviotas; and (v) techni-
cal assistance for a sector survey and for sector studies. The total cost
of the above project is estimated at US$33.5 million and the foreign exchange
component at US$16.9 million; interest and other charges during construction
would amount to US$1.6 million.
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
2.01      Geography.  Colombia has a total area of 1.14 million sq. kms
consisting of plains along the Pacific and Caribbean coast, rugged highlands
in the central part and vast plains in the East descending to the Amazon
river. Its population of 23 million is concentrated in the coastal plains



-2-
and in the central highlands. There are approximately 60 large and medium-
size cities which are spread throughout the more populated parts of the
country.  The topography makes travel difficult and hampers communication
between the cities and the rural areas.
2.02      Population.  The population is increasing at 3.2% per annum, but
family planning programs are beginning to show results and it is expected
that the growth rate will be under 3.0% in the second half of the seventies.
The rapid population growth has resulted in an unbalanced demographic struc-
ture with a school-age population (7-18 year olds) as large as the total
labor force (30%). Although regional affiliation is important, the popula-
tion is rather homogenous with the Spanish-Catholic tradition as the dominant
factor. Heavy migration from the rural areas has increased the urban popula-
tion from 36% to 44% in the last eight years.
2.03      The Economy.  In 1970 agriculture accounted for 29% of GDP, and
mining, manufacturing and construction for 25%. The remaining 46% was con-
tributed by public and private services. The growth prospects of the Colombian
economy appear promising. The growth rate of GDP was 5.2% in the sixties and
is expected to average 7% in the seventies. Construction and export-oriented
manufacturing are the strategic sectors in the Government's Development Plan
and are expected to grow rapidly in the coming years (Annex 3). Within the
economic sectors, the Government is aiming at increased diversification of
production and exports. The third element in the Plan's strategy is the im-
provement of productivity in agriculture, to reverse the trend of a widening
gap in living standards between urban and rural areas. To this end, an Agrarian
Reform is being implemented and the agricultural extension service expanded.
2.04      Rural Development.  The rural areas of the country which are becoming
an increasing concern of the Government are usually characterized by a lack of
basic services, low productivity and pressure for farmland due to its maldis-
tribution. Public services, particularly for education, health and trans-
portation, are poor in rural areas, especially when compared with urban cen-
ters. The educational level of the rural population is very low: 40% are
illiterate, as against 16% in the urban areas. Institutional credit for
small farmers is insufficient and the agricultural extension service reaches
only a minority of the farmers. At least half the rural population live at
subsistence level, partly due to lack of suitable land. Land is available
in the largely unpopulated areas of the Eastern Plains and Amazonia, but the
conditions are mostly suitable for semi-intensive livestock production which
is not the tradition in subsistence farming.  The Government is setting up,
although as yet on a small scale, rural development services' centers, which
will provide basic services in rural areas to help improve living conditions
on the land.
2.05      Manpower.  Agriculture accounted in 1970 for 41% of employment,
mining, manufacturing and construction for 20%, and services for the remain-
ing 39%.  At least 10% of the labor force is unemployed and an estimated
10-15% is underemployed.  Labor-intensive industries such as construction
are being stimulated with a view to reducing unemployment.  Still, the largest
employment increase up to 1980 will be in services and increasing numbers of
workers will have to find employment in agriculture (Annex 3).



-3-
2.06      The implementation of the Government's strategy of high economic
growth and diversification of production requires a sufficient supply of
trained manpower for all sectors and at all levels. However, the qualifica-
tions of the labor force are low: in 1970, only 22% of the workers had any
education or training beyond primary school. Up-to-date estimates of the
requirements for the various types of trained manpower are not available,
but the main need is overwhelmingly clear: there is a severe shortage of
technically trained manpower at the middle level, i.e., skilled workers and
lower cadres. These are mainly trained by SENA, the National Apprenticeship
Service, and on the job; at present the formal education system does not pro-
duce this type of manpower in sufficient numbers (Annex 4). Most graduates
of secondary education (80%) are from the academic branch which prepares only
for university entrance; they are ill-prepared for jobs at their proper level
and many of them can only find casual jobs such as street vendors. Only 10%
of the graduates have received vocational training though the proportion should
be 40% to arrive at a more balanced situation. 1/ The most urgent need is a
change in the profile of the labor force at this level through a shift au .
from the academic branch to a more flexible type of education which emphasizes
pre-vocational and vocational training.
III. EDUCATION AND TRAINING
General
3.01      The Government's policy for education development is aimed at cor-
recting the three basic problem areas in Colombia's education system: (i)
the low external efficiency of the system because school programs and concepts
are increasingly failing to respond to the social and economic needs of the
country; (ii) the low internal efficiency of the system as evidenced by high
dropout rates at all levels; and (iii) the imbalance between the availability
and quality of education in rural and urban areas. To correct these problems,
the Government has defined the broad outlines of an education reform and plans
to work out a comprehensive strategy on the basis of a forthcoming sector
survey. The key to education development is the concept of diversified second-
ary education, which was introduced under the secondary education reform program
of 1968 and will be expanded throughout the secondary level. Deficiencies in
education administration and planning are presently a major constraint for
education development and the Government is taking measures to correct this
situation.
3.02      Administration.  The Ministry of National Education is responsible
for the formulation of education policy and the coordination of all education
activities in the country. This is a major task in view of the complex juris-
diction over the multitude of national, departmental, municipal and private
1/   See D.K. Zschock, Manpower Perspective of Colombia, Princeton, 1967.



-4-
education institutions. A recent administrative reform introduced a number
of improvements in the administrative structure of the Ministry (Chart 1).
Various semi-autonomous Decentralized Agencies were established which have
control over their own budgets and some freedom from civil service limita-
tions in selection and compensation of personnel. Despite this, education
administration requires more flexibility and effectiveness. The main problem
is a lack of administrative continuity in the Ministry since salaries of key
officials are not competitive with high-level positions in the private sector
and many appointments are political. To improve this situation, the Govern-
ment proposes centralization of policy making and decentralization of admin-
istration.  Under this proposal, presently awaiting action by Congress, educa-
tion administration vould be the responsibility of a new Decentralized Agency,
Instituto Colombiano de Administracion Educativa y Servicios Docentes (INCA-S).
The UNDP will provide technical assistance to help reorganize the structure
of education administration and to strengthen education administration until
this is accomplished -(Annex 18).
3.03      Planning.  Education planning is concentrated on project develop-
ment and does not provide an adequate framework for the planned development
of the education system. The overall education reform which the Government
is elaborating (para. 3.01) requires careful planning to arrive at a balanced
program whicr- does not exceed available resources.  Technical assistance will
be provided by the UNtP to strengthen Colombia's planning capacity (Annex 18).
Further, the statistilal basis for planning is weak: education statistics are
outdated and deficient. The latest complete data are for 1968; data for more
recent years are mostly estimated. Efforts to speed up data collection are
hampered by the scattering of education authorities and the unreliability of
local statistics. This situation requires a strong central agency for the
collection and analysis of statistics, but the capacity of DANE, the National
Statistics Department; is inadequate and low quality of statistics is a general
problem in Colombia. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government will seek steady progress in the collection and publication of
education statistics.
The Education and Training System
3.04      The Structure (see also Appendix A and Chart 2).  Primary education
lasts five years. Sedondary education, for which an entrance examination is
required, consists generally of a four-year lower cycle (Plan Basico) followed
by a two-year upper cycle (Bachillerato); there are limited opportunities to
follow pre-vocational and vocational courses of several types. Higher educa-
tion, with courses of three to six years, is offered at universities and spe-
cialized post-secondary institutions.  Various types of non-formal training
are provided by a number of public and private agencies.
3.05      Primary Education.  Although participation in primary education
seems very high (99%), 30% of the students are overaged, resulting in a real
participation rate of 70%. Drop-out rates are high and only 27% complete
primary education (Annex 5). An estimated 85% of the primary graduates con-
tinue on to secondary school. Opportunities in rural areas are limited with



-5-
80% of the rural schools containing no more than the third grade. The Gov-
ernment is carrying out a program for the expansion of primary education in
rural areas, both through the addition of classrooms to incomplete primary
schools and through new construction. The 1973-1976 Investment Plan contains
provisions for the construction of 14,000 additional classrooms in rural areas,
a capacity increase of about 10% p.a.
3.06      Secondary Education.  Secondary schooling has traditionally been
divided into academic education (70%), primary teacher training (9%) and
various vocational options (21%), in separate schools of uneconomic size
(Appendix A and Annex 6). This distribution is seriously out of balance;
the need for a shift away from academic to pre-vocational and vocational
education is urgent (para. 2.06). This shift was initiated by the establish-
ment, on a pilot basis, of 19 diversified secondary schools (INEM's), financed
under the first and second education projects, the first of which opened in
1970. The INEM's offer a curriculum that integrates academic and pre-voca-
tional subjects into a properly balanced general education program, prepar-
ing students for a broad range of possible further training and employment.
The six-year program is organized in three two-year stages. In the first
stage, students explore the different vocational fields and in the second
they receive a broad orientation to industry, commerce, social services or
agriculture. In the final two years, students receive more specialized
training in such specific fields as metal work, mechanics, electricity
and construction (Annex 11 and Chart 5). Guidance counselors assist stud-
ents in choosing suitable options.
3.07      INEI students graduate at two points, after the fourth and sixth
grades. Although they are directly employable, the graduates should not be
regarded as fully trained except for commerce. They are educated for life-
long adaptability and trainability and have thus the potential to become,
through subsequent training in formal education, in centers of SENA, and
on the job, the middle-level personnel which are much needed for the coun-
try's development (Chart 5). Graduates of the six-year course can continue
their education in specialized post-secondary institutes or enter university
education. The diplomas awarded by diversified secondary schools are formally
recognized by the universities, but no students have graduated yet from the
full six-year course. Through ICFES, the higher education institute, the
Ministry of Education is working out appropriate adjustments in the univer-
sity entrance examinations. In a number of INEM's practical subject teach-
ing is unsatisfactory as a result of inadequate preparation and supervision
of technical teachers, and a too theoretical orientation of teaching guides.
To remedy this, the Government will establish a vocational education super-
visory service (para. 5.06), and technical assistance to improve industrial
and agricultural subject teaching will be provided by the UNDP (Annex 18).
3.08      Apart from the change in emphasis from academic to pre-vocational
education, a number of innovations were introduced in the INEM's which have
been tested successfully and can now be spread to the rest of the education
system. The relevance to specific manpower needs is increased through co-
operation of the schools with local industries and SENA centers. Internal
efficiency is high as a result of improved programs, full-time qualified



- 6-
teachers and remedial teaching; yearly dropout rates are below 10%, compared
with an average of 30% for traditional schools.  Further, improved methods of
school administration and student scheduling are applied in large institutions,
which greatly improves the efficient use of resources. The INEM's are co-
educational, while traditional schools are mostly separated. The success of
the INEtI's is evident from the widespread interest of parents and industry,
and from the initiative taken by some private secondary schools to include
pre-vocational subjects in their curriculum. The Government intends to spread
the concept of diversified education throughout the secondary level. The 19
INEM's are located in the larger cities. As a next stage, diversified sec-
o"-lary education will be expanded to existing schools in medium-size cities
and, through new schools, to the rural areas.
3.09      While the main need in secondary education is quality improvement,
participation should increase from its present 19%, which is rather low for
a country of Colombia's stage of development (Annexes 1 and 2). More than
50% of the secondary students are in private schools, largely because there
are insufficient places in public education. The quality of private secondary
schools varies considerably; with the exception of a few elite schools, the
quality of teaching is about equal to that of public secondary education.
The high fees in private schools are prohibitive for the lower income groups,
whereas public education is free for children of the poorer families.  An
expansion of public education is needed to increase equality of educational
opportunities. It is expected that participation will increase to 33% in
1980 and that the major part of this expansion will be in public education.
Particularly important is the envisaged establishment of public diversified
secondary schools in rural areas where presently only very few secondary
schools exist. The qualifications of secondary teachers are low: only 25%
are fully qualified (Annex 6). This situation is expected to improve as a
result of a major expansion of the Pedagogical Faculties of National Univer-
sities and through a UNDP-assisted program for in-service training of teachers.
3.10      Higher Education.  In 1970, total enrollment in universities and
post-secondary institutions was 78,000 or 3.5% of the 19-24 age group. The
rapid expansion of university education has resulted in low quality, a pro-
liferation of institutions and high dropout rates. Of those who enter the
university only 55% graduate but there is already an oversupply in various
fields, including engineering. The universities are presently in turmoil,
which precludes urgently needed improvements. A continuation of the em-
phasis in secondary education on academic programs, preparing only for uni-
versity entrance, would lead to pressures for a further rapid expansion of
universities. This trend will be reversed when diversified secondary educa-
tion, offering job-oriented courses, is expanded to existing secondary schools.
Further, non-university types of higher education will be given more emphasis.
The Government is developing a four-year training program for technicians and
technical teachers in cooperation with the Pedagogical Faculties of National
Universities, the polytechnic institutes and SENA. Plans are under discussion
for regional cooperation and improved administration and management of the
universities.



-7-
3.11      Non-Formal Training.  Colombia's most important non-formal training
institution is SENA, the semi-autonomous National Apprenticeship Service,
which provides specific technical training for workers at various levels.
SENA's courses are in high demand and satisfy an important need. A main
problem is the inadequate basic education of its applicants which leads to
inefficiencies and too expensive programs. Quality improvements in the
formal education system will make it possible for SENA to concentrate more
on specific technical training and thereby help improve its efficiency.
SENA, the National Planning Department and the Ministry of National Education
are investigating how the coordination of formal and non-formal education and
training can be improved. The second important institution is ACPO, a private,
non-profit community development organization, which has been effectively train-
ing leaders and providing functional literacy training through the use of radio
and its own training institutes. The Government plans to use ACPOts experience
in the development of education in rural areas.
Education Development Strategy
3.12      The Government gives high priority to a further implementation of
the secondary education reform program and has defined the broad outline of
a comprehensive strategy for the development of education at all levels. The
key to education development is the concept of diversified secondary education
which would be expanded horizontally and have its influence vertically. Hori-
zontal expansion throughout the secondary level will take place through the
introduction of the diversified curriculum in existing secondary schools and
the establishment of new schools in rural areas. The philosophy of diver-
sified secondary education would have its influence vertically downwards
through an integration of the present five-year primary cycle with the lower
four-year cycle of diversified secondary education into nine years of basic
education. An integrated nine-year cycle is conceived to be the minimum
schooling to enter and compete suc'cessfully in the labor market and would
become compulsory in the long run. The nine grades of basic education would
be organized in an initial three-year stage followed by three two-year stages.
Within each stage promotion would be automatic, a procedure which should
greatly improve internal efficiency. Vertically upwards there would be an
influence on higher education as the more practically oriented technological
institutes are strengthened as an alternative to a further overexpansion of
the academically oriented programs of the universities (para. 3.10).
3.13      The framework for overall education development is well conceived
and a reform along these lines could help improve greatly the relevance of
the education system for economic and social development. IHowever, the reform
is still in too early a stage to be completely assessed. The Government re-
cognizes that its objectives are essentially long term in character and that
there is a need to work out a strategy for education development indicating
timing, priorities and means for the implementation of these objectives in
view of manpower and financial constraints. To this end, the education plan-
ning capacity will be strengthened (para. 3.03) and the Government plans to
conduct a sector survey to evaluate past developments and design policies and
priorities for the future. The outcome of this sector survey and the resulting
Government strategy for overall education development would form the basis for
possible future Bank lending for sectors other than secondary education.



-8-
IV. EDUCATION FINANCE
Expenditures, Past and Present
4.01      In 1970 total expenditures on education amounted to 6,250 million
pesos, representing 4.8% of GDP. This proportion is still modest but has im-
proved greatly from the low 3.7% in 1965 (Annex 8). The Central Government
viational Government and Decentralized Agencies) finances only 55% of total
expenditures, Departments (States) and Municipalities 22% and the remaining
23% comes from private sources. Between 1965 and 1970 the proportion of the
National Government's budget spent on education remained at about 15%, but
this constituted a rapidly increasing share of CDP. In the last few years,
the Government has given increasing attention to the education sector as
reflected in the growing appropriations for education in the national budgets.
4.02      The trend towards decentralization can be observed in the increasing
share in the financing of the education sector by the Decentralized Agencies,
which include SENA, ICCE and the National Universities. Their own resources
are from sales, fees, special taxes, voluntary contributions, credit and ex-
ternal aid. SENA is financed from a 2% payroll tax on larger enterprises and
from payments for specific training programs; SENA's expenditures amounted
to 410 million pesos in 1970, or 7% of total expenditures on education in
Colombia, and were all financed from its own resources. The other decen-
tralized Agencies receive the main part of their funds (63%) from the Min-
istry of National Education. The Departments and Municipalities have dif-
ficulty financing their education establishments, because their tax base is
too small. As a result, the Ministry of National Education has to transfer
an increasing part of its budget to these authorities. The transfers to De-
centralized Agencies, Departments and Municipalities constituted in 1970
about half the Ministry's budget.
4.03      The importance of private education is reflected in the high con-
tribution of the private sector to education finance, representing an estimat-
ed 1.1% of GDP in 1970. Nearly 60% is spent on private secondary education,
mainly because the number of places provided in public secondary schools is
insufficient.  Though the Government provides assistance to private schools,
their fees are high, whereas those collected in public institutions for second-
ary and higher education are modest and depend on parents' income.
4.04      External assistance comes from a variety of sources and in large
amounts. For the years 1969-1971 average annual commitments are estimated
at US$35 million, or 10% of total education expenditures, of which about two-
thirds came from bilateral sources.  Bilateral aid includes USAID sector loans
through which the Education Ministry finances presently about 10% of its
budget. USAID played an important role in the implementation of the INEM
program through the financing of technical assistance and advanced training
for Colombian school administrators, guidance counselors and teachers. The
present sector loans include funds for primary and lower-secondary education



-9-
in rural areas, which complement the proposed Bank-financed project. The
IDB made a number of loans to various Universities during the mid-sixties,
but it is presently less active in the education sector. The UNDP Program
for 1972-1976 includes US$6.0 million for technical assistance in educattion,
and contains the technical assistance needed for the proposed project which
is not included in the project cost (Annex 18).
4.05      The distribution of education expenditures by level has not changed
much in the last five years. Primary and secondary education each received
about 30% and an excessive proportion (20%) is spent on higher education.
The remaining 20% is used for non-formal training, general administration
and other overhead costs (Annex 9). The recurrent costs per pupil are rather
low in primary (US$35) and secondary education (US$95), mainly because teachers
are underpaid. Their median annual salaries are US$1,100 in primary and
US$2,000 in secondary education, which is appreciably lower than in other
occupations at a comparable level. The average annual salary of the qualified
teachers in the INEM's is US$3,300 for full-time employment, which is consi-
dered attractive by the teachers. In the traditional schools very small
amounts are spent on learning materials. On the other hand, efficiency is
low because the schools are generally small and too much is spent on school
administration. For the INEM's, budgetary allocations for teaching materials
and maintenance have been adequate. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the Government will continue to provide sufficient funds for
diversified secondary education. In higher education the recurrent cost per
student is estimated at US$600 p.a. There is a proliferation of institutions,
most with only few students, and frequent student unrest leads to low utilization
of facilities and teachers. The actual duration of studies is long and the
dropout rate is high, resulting in a total cost per university graduate of
more than US$6,000.
4.06      Education investments by the Ministry of National Education are
presently about 25% of its total expenditures, as compared with an average
of 20% in the years 1965-1970.  The Ministry plans to increase even further
the proportion of its budget for investments, which will lead to a sharp in-
crease in recurrent expenditures. In the past, the greater proportion of
Government's investments has been carried out in urban centers in the wake
of heavy migration from rural areas, while little impact has been made on
the rural school problem. However, the present investment plan provides for
increased expenditures for schooling in rural areas.
Future Education Expenditures
4.07      Though the Government has initiated a program for a major expansion
and quality improvement of the education system, no estimates have yet been
made of future recurrent expenditures. The Bank has made projections on the
basis of recent trends in enrollments and has worked out various alternatives
for the implementation of an education reform as envisaged by the Government.
The conclusion is that in 1980 primary education could be offered to all 7-11
year olds, but drastic efficiency measures would be needed. A realistic ob-
jective for secondary education would be a participation rate of 33% of the



- 10 -
12-18 age group. Diversified secondary education would then be offered to 15%
of secondary students and the proportion of students in academic courses would
decrease from the present 70% to 55% (Annexes 7 and 10; Chart 4). This would
leave funds for recruiting better qualified teachers, upgrading in-service
teachers and improving teacher salaries in general. On these assumptions,
total education expenditures would amount to 5.7% of GDP in 1980, a proportion
which compares well with education efforts by other Latin American countries
(Annex 2). More than half of the resources would have to come from the budget
of the Ministry of Education, requiring 20% of the total National Government
budget. The draft General Education Law proposes to provide in 1976 at least
2C % of the national budget for education. Further a new law the "Situado
Fiscal," and a proposed law, the "Tasa Educativa," would increase the resources
for education of Departments and Municipalities by an amount equal to 5% of
the National Government budget. Thus, the Government appears to have the
financial capacity for a gradual implementation of its plans for education
development, but much attention has to be given to problems of timing and
priorities.
4.08      The additional recurrent cost resulting from the proposed project
would be 1.5% of the total 1980 expenditures as projected by the Bank. The
total recurrent costs per student in the common facilities centers and par-
ticipating schools would be US$170 and in the rural comprehensive schools
US$105, which compares well with the US$190 per student in the INEM's. These
per student costs are higher than in academic secondary schools (US$95), but
the costs per graduate will be lower because of significantly smaller repeti-
tion and dropout in the diversified secondary schools (para. 3.08).
4.09      The National Planning Department has allocated in the 1973-1976
Investment Plan an amount of US$13.9 million equivalent to meet the counter-
part funds for the proposed project. The size of the proposed project has
been determined by reviewing the need for diversified secondary education in
the light of the financial resources available and the other priorities for
improvement and expansion of education and training. The total project cost
of US$33.5 million would constitute 11% of the total education investments
planned by the Government for the period 1973-1976. This is reasonable in
view of the Government's plans for other levels of education such as quality
improvement and expansion of primary education in rural areas and development
of higher education.
V.  THE PROJECT
General
5.01      The proposed project would reinforce diversified secondary education
by extending this approach to existing secondary schools and rural areas and
by preparing technical teachers for the project schools. Further, the project
would help improve the provision of services for rural development and provide
assistance for an education sector survey and specific sector studies. Al-
though the emphasis of the proposed project is on improvement of quality and
education opportunity, the new facilities would provide additional enrollment
capacity as follows.



- 11 -
Additional    Boarding
Grades      Number   Enrollments   Places
Common Facilities Centers /1    6-11            24         39,400         -
Rural Comprehensive Schools       6-9           13          7,000       1,700
Technical Teacher Training
Program                         12 plus        4            900
Rural Development Services'
Center                          1-5             1           500         300
Total                                            42        47,800       2,000
/1   The centers would provide facilities for a total number of 108,900
students, which includes 69,500 students already enrolled in existing
secondary schools (Annex 12).
Common Facilities Centers
5.02      The proposed 24 common facilities centers would provide the neces-
sary workshops and laboratories to enable a total of 91 existing secondary
schools to adopt the diversified curriculum introduced with the 19 INEM's
under the first and second education projects. The centers would form a
new approach in implementing the Government's policy of spreading diversi-
fied education throughout the secondary level. Existing secondary schools
lack the laboratories and workshops required for the implementation of the
diversified curriculum. They are in general of small size making the pro-
vision of such facilities to each school uneconomic. The centers would pro-
vide workshops for practical subjects, laboratories and counseling services
for a total number of 108,900 students, and will free classroom space by pro-
viding 19,700 student places which would be used on a double-shift system.
Consequently, the proportion of secondary students in diversified education
would increase from 4% to 15% in 1980 (Chart 4). The number of students to
be served by each center varies from 2,100 to 5,700, coming from two to six
neighboring schools (Annex 12). These large enrollments would permit signi-
ficant economies in initial investment per student and in operation due to
an intensive utilization of teaching facilities. Further, a more diversified
program can be offered and specialized staff can be used efficiently. An
essential element of the new approach in diversified secondary education is
the relevance to the social and economic needs of the country and of the re-
gion in which the schools are located. Like the existing INEM's the centers
will therefore have a strong community orientation. They will be used after
school hours for other educational activities such as remedial teaching and
non-formal adult courses.
5.03      All project centers will be suitably located in large and medium-
size cities with sufficient numbers of secondary students for the full util-
ization of a center of economic size. The cities have been selected, further,



- 12 -
on the basis of their growth potential and their expected future role in the
economic development of the country (Appendix B). The options to be offered
and the enrollment in each of them has been determined in view of the antic-
ipated manpower requirements in the respective regions (Annex 13). The selec-
tion of participating schools within each city was based upon willingness to
participate and geographical location within a radius of 20 minutes travelling
time from the center.  The project would provide buses where inadequate tran-
sportation facilities exist.
504      Most of the participating schools would be departmental, but the
centers would operate as part of the INEM system under national authority.
By participating in the centers, departmental and municipal schools would
have to adopt the diversified curriculum, which specifies the number of
periods requiring the use of the special facilities at the centers. Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Student scheduling
would be the responsibility of the national authorities, thus ensuring ef-
ficient utilization of the centers' facilities. To represent the interests
of municipal and departmental education authorities, an advisory and coor-
dinating committee would be established with representatives from the three
levels of government (Chart 6). This committee will deal with such issues
as scheduling, enrollment and use of the centers for non-formal education
purposes. The Government has decided against the establishment of training
farms for centers which offer agricultural streams, in view of the small num-
bers of students involved. Provisions would be made for field work to be
carried out on the farms of neighboring agricultural schools, SENA institutes
or training centers of ICA, the Agricultural Extension Service. During nego-
tiations assurances were obtained that the Government will make satisfactory
arrangements for practical field work.
5.05      Pending the establishment of INCAES, the decentralized institute
for education administration (para. 3.02), the Government intends to charge
ICCE, the project unit for the first and second projects, with the administra-
tion and supervision of the centers. ICCE's Pedagogic Directorate needs to
be strengthened to carry out this larger task. During negotiations the Govern-
ment submitted to the Bank a satisfactory plan to increase ICCE's administrative
and pedagogic capacity which should be implemented before completion of the
centers.  Assurances to this effect have been obtained from the Government.
5.06      Most of the teachers in the existing INEM's have the proper qual-
ifications and salaries are adequate (para. 4.05). The same salary scale
would apply to teachers in the common facilities centers. Assurances have
bee?' obtained from the Government that a majority of full-time qualified
teachers will be appointed before the opening of each center. Practical
subject teachers are not available in sufficient numbers and would be trained
under a special program (para. 5.12; Annexes 14 and 17). To ensure proper
implementation of the diviersified curriculumt, the Government will organize
a vocational education supervisory service which would incorporate supervision
and on-the-job training of teachers in practical subjects. This would include
such aspects as: shop management, practical exercises for students, maintenance
and repair and the inspection of practical teaching and of the equipment



- 13 -
and furniture. The service would be organized in five regions with inspectors
making periodical visits to the centers; it would include the existing 19 INEM's
and the proposed rural comprehensive schools. Transportation facilities for
the service have been included in the project. Technical assistance will be
provided by UNDP to set up this service and to develop and improve syllabi and
work projects for practical subject teaching (Annex 18). Assurances with re-
gard to the establishment of this service were obtained during negotiations.
Rural Comprehensive Schools
5.07      The project would also provide for construction, furnishing and
equipping of 13 lower-cycle secondary schools (grades 6-9) in rural areas
with a total enrollment of 7,000 students in one shift and 1,700 boarding
places. The schools will have a curriculum similar to that of other diver-
sified secondary schools (para. 3.06), but with fewer options and an orienta-
tion towards agricultural activities. The schools would provide a broad in-
troduction into skills as a basis for SENA courses (Appendix A), agricultural
training programs and on-the-job training. Graduates of the four-year pro-
gram could enter employment in farming or in field positions with INCORA,
the Agrarian Reform Institute. At present, the relatively small numbers of
prospective secondary students in rural areas do not justify the establishment
of schools with the more diversified upper cycle (grades 10-11). Graduates
wishing to continue their education would have this opportunity in agricul-
tural institutes or in diversified secondary schools in the cities and, sub-
sequently, in higher education.
5.08      The project schools would form the focus of "Concentraciones de
Desarrollo Rural" (Rural Development Centers), which help implement the Gov-
ernment's policy to improve the quality of rural life by providing essential
services and to increase rural incomes by improving agricultural productivity
and promoting small-scale industry. The establishment of the Concentraciones
is the result of cooperation among the Ministries of Education, Agriculture,
Health and Interior, ICA and INCORA, which will all contribute to the develop-
ment of the regions concerned. The locations of the schools have been carefully
selected among the regions with economic potential where development programs
are being carried out by ICA and/or INCORA. The catchment area of each school
has a sufficiently large school-age population and the accessibility within
the area is adequate (Appendix B). The travel distance to the school would
be no more than one hour; buses would be provided under the project. The Gov-
erment intends to establish a total of 39 rural comprehensive schools, 13
of which are included in the proposed project. The remaining 26 schools
would be established by extending existing facilities, financed by USAID.
With assistance from USAID the Ministry of Education has initiated the comple-
tion to all five grades of the primary schools in the particular regions
(paras. 3.05 and 4.04) which will become the feeder schools for the rural
comprehensive schools. In the 13 regions supported by the Bank project, the
number of primary student places will increase by 36% to 66,000 ensuring a
sufficient flow of primary graduates for the project schools (Annex 15).



- 14 -
5.09      In addition to offering formal secondary education the schools would
form the basis for an education extension service which will assist in foster-
ing the attitude of self-reliance and community action needed for overall rural
development in the particular region. The education extension service would
help improve primary education in the region through direct supervision, ma-
terial assistance and in-service training of teachers. Further, non-formal
adult courses would be offered in functional literacy, community leadership
and accelerated primary education. In cooperation with SENA, ACPO and the
Development Agencies operating in the region, courses would be organized in
agricultural production, small-scale agricultural industries, repair, home
improvement, health and community development. In view of the scattered
population the project would provide for transport facilities for a mobile
community development unit to be attached to each school. Technical assis-
tance to organize and supervise this service would be included in the proj-
ect, to be provided by ACPO, an organization with long experience in this
field (para. 3.11). Assurances have been obtained that close cooperation
will be established between the schools, SENA, ACPO and the Development
Agencies to ensure that the schools will function as part of the overall
rural development effort in the particular region.
5.10      The Implementation of this project item will be carried out by
ICCE, the Project Unit, but the schools would be administered by the newly
established Unit for Rural Development in the Ministry of Education. This
would facilitate the needed cooperation with other ministries and agencies
and the coordination with other rural development efforts in the Ministry.
However, in view of curriculum conformity, full coordination should be es-
tablished with the Pedagogic Directorate In ICCE, which is in charge of
administration and supervision of diversified secondary education in the
INEM's and the common facilities centers. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
5.11      Teachers for the agricultural-oriented vocational subjects would
be trained under a special program (para. 5.12; Annexes 16 and 17) and the
rural comprehensive schools would partieipate in the vocational education
supervisory service established to reinforce practical-subject teaching
(para. 5.06). During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Gov-
ernment will appoint a majority of full-time qualified teachers before the
opening of each school. Technical assistance for the development of programs
and methods for agricultural-oriented practical subject teaching will be
provided by the UNDP (Annex 18).
Technical Teacher Training Program
5.12      The project would also provide supplementary equipment to carry
out a program for the training of 2,000 teachers in industrial and other
vocational subjects over the four-year period 1974-1977. The supply of
secondary school teachers in practical vocational subjects is at present
virtually non-existent. The Government is working out plans to establish
a four-year technical teacher training course (para. 3.10) but it will take
long before these plans are materialized and sufficient numbers of teachers



- 15 -
are produced. The emergency training program would satisfy the immediate
needs of the existing INEM's which are not yet in full operation, and would
provide the technical teachers for the proposed common facilities centers
and rural comprehensive schools (Annx 17). The program is thus crucial
to the success of the whole project, particularly in view of the limited
experience with formal vocational teaching in Colombia. It would be com-
plemented and reinforced through supervision and on-the-job training by the
vocational education supervisory service (para. 5.06).
5.13      Two types of candidates would participate in the program, those
with technical experience but no teaching background and those teaching in
secondary schools with insufficient technical background. Preference would
be given to those in the first category because of their vocational orienta-
tion and better understanding of the world of work, but this is likely to be
a small source of supply. Upon application, a student's previous academic
background and work experience would be evaluated and credit awarded on an
equivalency basis. It is anticipated that most candidates would be able to
complete the course within two years. To attract students to the program who
are already working in industry or teaching, courses would be scheduled full
time, during vacation periods and at night.
5.14      The program would be coordinated by ICFES (Colombian Institute for
the Development of Higher Education), a decentralized agency of the Ministry
of Education. It would be organized on a regional basis and in each of four
regional universities the Faculty of Pedagogy would administer the program,
award credits and teach courses in pedagogy and general cultural subjects.
Each university would cooperate with two to four neighboring technical schools,
polytechnic institutes and SENA centers, which would provide the technical
courses as well as practical training in vocational areas. Contractual ar-
rangements will be made with the participating universities and technical
institutes, and full-time coordinators will be appointed in ICFES and in each
of the four Faculties of Pedagogy. Assurances have been obtained that, for
the implementation of the program, cooperation and advisory assistance will
be sought from SENA, the National Apprenticeship Service. The UNDP will pro-
vide technical assistance for the development of curricula and syllabi
(Annex 18).
5.15      The Government has already started to work out the details of the
program and is investigating what numbers of students of different background
and experience could be expected to participate. The final details of the
program will depend on the composition of the student body. In the planning
and implementation of the program all possible safeguards should be taken
to ensure that the teachers produced will be of high quality and will be
able to carry out the practical teaching which is an essential component of
the diversified curriculum. A condition of effectiveness of the Loan would
be the submission to the Bank of a detailed plan for the implementation of
the program, which should include a timetable and the agreements with the
participating universities and technical institutes.



- 16
Rural Development Services' Center
5.16      The proposed project would provide for an extension of the Rural
Development Services' Center in Las Gaviotas (Map) and the establishment of
three affiliated centers in surrounding areas. The existing center was es-
tablished in 1967 anid is supported by the Ministries of Agriculture, Educa-
tion, Health, Interior, the President's Office and the private sector. It
provides agricultural, education, health, general supply and communication
services on a cooperative basis to presently 1,100 families of new settlers
I an area of about 50,000 km2 and conducts research in rural development in
association with various universities. Due to the pressure on farmland in
the regions of traditional settlement, a growing migratory movement is tak-
ing place towards the Eastern Plains, where land can easily be acquired by
new settlers. The soils in the Plains area are poor and suitable mostly for
livestock production. ICA, the Colombian Institute of Agriculture, has de-
vised a profitable, semi-intensive system of livestock production, based on
low stocking rates, which is appropriate for this area where land is not the
limiting factor. Agricultural training centers are needed to instruct and
assist the new settlers in this production method.
5.17      The existing center in Las Gaviotas would be completed, mainly by
providing the planned agricultural training center. The three smaller affil-
iated centers would be located west of the existing center, closer to the
mountains where the largest number of new settlers is arriving. In addi-
tion to an agricultural t-aining center with associated extension activities
they would provide primary education, health facilities, general supply serv-
ices and a mechanical workshop. All new facilities, like the existing ones,
would be at thrift standards and constructed mainly of local materials. The
successful operation of the Las Gaviotas center until now indicates that it
may develop into a prqtotype for rural development efforts in the vast area
of the Eastern Plains.
Sector Studies
5.18      The Government plans to conduct a sector survey to evaluate the past
development of the education system, to identify gaps in the present system
and to design policies and priorities for further development (para. 3.13).
The survey would be carried out by Colombians with outside assistance, as re-
quired, in the form of experts' participation in seminars, panels and working
groups. This outside assistance would be provided under the proposed project.
In addition, ten man-years of technical assistance have been included to con-
duct the following studies which would form the basis for possible future
Bank lending in education:
(i) a synthesis of available manpower studies and the development
of a scheme for assessing needs for trained manpower on a con-
tinuous basis;
(ii)  an interim assessment of experience with the 19 INDI's included
under the first and second education projects as a basis for
further implementation of diversified education throughout the
secondary education level; and



- 15 -
are produced. The emergency training program would satisfy the immediate
needs of the existing INEM's which are not yet in full operation, and would
provide the technical teachers for the proposed common facilities centers
and rural comprehensive schools (Annex 17). The program is thus crucial
to the success of the whole project, particularly in view of the limited
experience with formal vocational teaching in Colombia. It would be com-
plemented and reinforced through supervision and on-the-job training by the
vocational education supervisory service (para. 5.06).
5.13      Two types of candidates would participate in the program, those
with technical experience but no teaching background and those teaching in
secondary schools with insufficient technical background. Preference would
be given to those in the first category because of their vocational orienta-
tion and better understanding of the world of work, but this is likely to be
a small source of supply. Upon application, a student's previous academic
background and work experience would be evaluated and credit awarded on an
equivalency basis. It is anticipated that most candidates would be able to
complete the course within two years. To attract students to the program who
are already working in industry or teaching, courses would be scheduled full
time, during vacation periods and at night.
5.14      The program would be coordinated by ICFES (Colombian Institute for
the Development of Higher Education), a decentralized agency of the Ministry
of Education. It would be organized on a regional basis and in each of four
regional universities the Faculty of Pedagogy would administer the program,
award credits and teach courses in pedagogy and general cultural subjects.
Each university would cooperate with two to four neighboring technical schools,
polytechnic institutes and SENA centers, which would provide the technical
courses as well as practical training in vocational areas. Contractual ar-
rangements will be made with the participating universities and technical
institutes, and full-time coordinators will be appointed in ICFES and in each
of the four Faculties of Pedagogy. Assurances have been obtained that, for
the implementation of the program, cooperation and advisory assistance will
be sought from SENA, the National Apprenticeship Service. The UNDP will pro-
vide technical assistance for the development of curricula and syllabi
(Annex 18).
5.15      The Government has already started to work out the details of the
program and is investigating what numbers of students of different background
and experience could be expected to participate. The final details of the
program will depend on the composition of the student body. In the planning
and implementation of the program all possible safeguards should be taken
to ensure that the teachers produced will be of high quality and will be
able to carry out the practical teaching which is an essential component of
the diversified curriculum. A condition of effectiveness of the Loan would
be the submission to the Bank of a detailed plan for the implementation of
the program, which should include a timetable and the agreements with the
participating universities and technical institutes.



- 16 -
Rural Development Services' Center
5.16      The proposed project would provide for an extension of the Rural
Development Services' Center in Las Gaviotas (Map) and the establishment of
three affiliated centers in surrounding areas. The existing center was es-
tablished in 1967 aiid is supported by the Ministries of Agriculture, Educa-
tion, Health, Interior, the President's Office and the private sector. It
provides agricultural, education, health, general supply and communication
services on a cooperative basis to presently 1,100 families of new settlers
i. an area of about 50,000 km2 and conducts research in rural development in
association with various universities. Due to the pressure on farmland in
the regions of traditional settlement, a growing migratory movement is tak-
ing place towards the Eastern Plains, where land can easily be acquired by
new settlers. The soils in the Plains area are poor and suitable mostly for
livestock production. ICA, the Colombian Institute of Agriculture, has de-
vised a profitable, semi-intensive system of livestock production, based on
low stocking rates, which is appropriate for this area where land is not the
limiting factor. Agricultural training centers are needed to instruct and
assist the new settlers in this production method.
5.17      The existing center in Las Gaviotas would be completed, mainly by
providing the planned agricultural training center. The three smaller affil-
iated centers would be located west of the existing center, closer to the
mountains where the largest number of new settlers is arriving. In addi-
tion to an agricultural t:aining center with associated extension activities
they would provide primary education, health facilities, general supply serv-
ices and a mechanical workshop. All new facilities, like the existing ones,
would be at thrift standards and constructed mainly of local materials. The
successful operation of the Las Gaviotas center until now indicates that it
may develop into a prototype for rural development efforts in the vast area
of the Eastern Plains.
Sector Studies
5.18      The Government plans to conduct a sector survey to evaluate the past
development of the education system, to identify gaps in the present system
and to design policies and priorities for further development (para. 3.13).
Tne survey would be carried out by Colombians with outside assistance, as re-
quired, in the form of experts' participation in seminars, panels and working
groups. This outside assistance would be provided under the proposed project.
In addition, ten man-years of technical assistance have been included to con-
duct the following studies which would form the basis for possible future
Bank lending in education:
(i) a synthesis of available manpower studies and the development
of a scheme for assessing needs for trained manpower on a con-
tinuous basis;
(ii)  an interim assessment of experience with the 19 INEM's included
under the first and second education projects as a basis for
further implementation of diversified education throughout the
secondary education level; and



- 17 -
(iii) a feasibility study for local production of simple equipment
and other learning materials.
This project item would be financed and implemented through FONADE, the Na-
tional Development Fund. Details of the implementation including a definite
timetable would be discussed and agreed with the Bank when the plans for the
above studies have been worked out, which would be within 18 months after the
date of the Loan Agreement.
Technical Assistance
5.19      Successful implementation of the proposed project will require
specialist manpower in fields where local expertise is lacking or inadequate.
To meet those requirements the Government has requested the UNDP to provide
within the Country Program for the period 1972-1976 technical assistance con-
sisting of 40 man-years of experts (as specified in Annex 18) for the follow-
ing purposes:
(a) to help reorganize the structure of education administration
and to strengthen education administration until this is ac-
complished (para. 3.02);
(b) to strengthen Colombia's education planning capacity (para.
3.03);
(c) to organize a vocational education supervisory service (para.
5.06);
(d) to develop and improve syllabi and work projects for industrial
and agricultural subject teaching (paras. 3.07 and 5.06) (the
appointment of industrial and agricultural education advisors
is an unfulfilled condition of the Loan Agreement for the
second education project); the experts would be appointed
within six months of the Loan Agreement;
(e) to develop programs and methods for practical-subject teaching
in the rural comprehensive schools (para. 5.11); and
(f) to develop curricula and syllabi for the technical teacher
training program (para. 5.14).
During negotiations the Government confirmed the availability from the UNDP
of the above technical assistance and the UNDP has already initiated advance
recruitment of key experts. The cost of the 40 man-years of technical assist-
ance and related equipment is estimated at US$1.5 million, or 25% of the total
UNDP program for education (para. 4.04). Unesco will be Executing Agency for
the entire UNDP technical assistance program for the education sector, which
will be coordinated and supervised locally by a UNDP/Unesco and a Colombian
full-time coordinator. During negotiations assurances were obtained that



- 18 -
qualified and experienced experts will be appointed in accordance with the
needs of the project. Provision of local counterpart funds and staff has been
confirmed by the Government in the agreement with the UNDP. Fellowships will
be provided through ICETEX, the Instituto Colombiano de Credito Educativo y
Estudios Tecnicos en el Exterior, with financial assistance from the UNDP and
bilateral sources.
5.20      Technical assistance to organize and supervise the education ex-
tension service operating from the rural comprehensive schools and to train
the personnel for this service is available in the country. This assistance
wiil be provided by ACPO (para. 5.09) on the basis of a contract which would
be in effect within six months after the date of the Loan Agreement.
Follow-up Evaluation of the Project
5.21      To facilitate later evaluation of the proposed project, a tracer
system would be established to carry out a systematic follow-up study of
student drop-out, graduation and subsequent employment, with or without
further training, of leavers from the project institutions and a represent-
ative group of the traditional secondary schools. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations. The planned 1974/75 mid-term assessment
of experience with diversified education in INEM's (para. 5.18) will include
an evaluation of the diversified curriculum, student guidance and counseling,
the system of administration and other innovations introduced in these in-
stitutions. A more complete evaluation will be possible only after 1976,
when the first group of students will graduate after a full six-year cycle
of diversified education. Other criteria for the success of the project would
be the internal efficiency of the schools and the amount of actual shop work
performed by the students. With regard to the non-formal training programs
in the rural comprehensive schools, evaluation criteria would be the number
and type of courses organized and the number of participants in each of the
training programs.
Cost of the Project
5.22      The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the proposed
project items are shown in Annex 19 and summarized below:



- 19 -
% of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Total
Pesos Millions           US$ Millions
Common Facilities Centers       224    220    444      9.9    9.8    19.7    58.8
Rural Comprehensive Schools    67       57    124      2.9    2.6      5.5    16.4
Technical Teacher Training        2      8      10     0.1    0.3      0.4      1.2
Program
Rural Development Services'       9      6      15     0.4    0.3      0.7      2.1
Center
Sector Studies                    2      9      11     0.1    0.4      0.5      1.5
Project Administration            4       1      5     0.2      -      0.2      0.6
Sub-Total            308    301    609    13.6   13.4    27.0    80.6
Contingencies
Physical                       31     30      61     1.4    1.3      2.7      8.1
Price                          37     48      85     1.6    2.2      3.8    11.3
Total Project Cost  376    379    755    16.6   16.9    33.5   100.0
5.23      Construction costs for the proposed project have been estimated on
the basis of data for the first and second education projects and other sim-
ilar projects in Colombia. The average cost per m2 for the project schools
would be US$49 which is slightly higher than for the second project (US$42)
because of price increases. Draft furniture and equipment lists have been re-
viewed and are reasonable in scale and estimated costs. The use factor and
the unit cost per student served of the project institutions are reasonable
in relation to other Bank/IDA financed projects (Annex 20). The Government
would provide the sites without cost to the project. Suitable sites have
been selected; the greater part of them have already been acquired and no
difficulty is foreseen in acquiring the remainder.
5.24      The distribution of costs per category of expenditure is as follows:



- 20 -
% of
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total    Total
Pesos Millions          US$ Millions
1. Construction
a. Site Development        43     20       63     1.9    0.9      2.8      8.3
b. Academic and Communal 161      73      234     7.2    3.2    10.4      31.0
c. Boarding                 7      3       10     0.3    0.1      0.4      1.2
d. Staff Housing            3      1       4      0.1    0.1      0.2      0.6
e. Professional,Services  16       2       18     0.7    0.1      0.8      2.4
Sub-Total               230     99      329    10.2    4.4    14.6      43.5
2. Furniture                  29     13       42     1.3    0.6      1.9      5.7
3. Equipment                  30    173      203     1.3    7.7      9.0     26.9
4. Technical Assistance       15     15       30     0.6    0.7      1.3      3.9
5. Project Administration      4      1        5     0.2     -       0.2      0.6
6. Contingencies              68     78      146     3.0    3.5      6.5     19.4
Tn'tal Project;Cost       376 379      755    16.6   16.9    33.5         0
5.25      Contingency allowances are shown in detail in Annex 21.  For unfore-
seen factors, 10% is added to the cost estimates in all categeries.  Costs
are expected to increase slightly faster than in recent years and a price con-
tingency (in terms of US dollars) of 12% for local cost (based on 4.5% p.a.)
and 16X for foreign costs (based on 6.0% p.a.) has been included in the p.roject.
The contingency allowances are not differentiated by category since variations
in price incrteasesr-,are not expected to be significant, and payments for all
categories are expected to follow the same time pattern (Annex 22). All
contingencies amount to 19% of total project cost including contingencies
or to 24% of the project cost excluding contingencies.
5.26      The foreign exchange component has been calculated as follows:
(i) site development, construction and furniture 30%; (ii) equipment 85%;
(iii) professional services and project administration 15%; (iv) foreign
technical assistante 80%; and (v) local technical assistan-ce 30%. The proj-
ect would be implemented within 3-1/2 years (Annex 22) with a construction
period of three years. Interest and other charges during construction are
estimated at US$1.6 million.
5.27      The foreign exchange cost estimates, originally determined on the
basis of prevailing prices and dollar equivalents at the time of appraisal,
have since been adjusted to reflect the recent variations in exchange rat-es.
The resulting foreign exchange component of US$16.9 million represents about
50% of the total project cost.
5.28      The proposed loan of US$21.2 million would finance:  (i) the es-
timated foreign exthange cost of US$16.9 million; (ii) US$2.0 million for
the local currency component of the ex-factory cost of equipment ant furniture,



- 21 -
for which local suppliers are likely to win the contracts under international
competitive bidding; (iii) US$0.5 million for local cost of technical assist-
ance which ACPO, a Colombian institution would be best qualified to provide
(para. 5.09); the Bank loan would thus cover the maximum percentage (80%)
which would be financed if foreign technical assistance were to be employed;
(iV) US$0.2 million for local cost of civil works for the rural development
services' center; the Bank would thus cover 70% of the total cost, because
of the opportunity of breaking new ground in Colombian rural development
efforts (para. 5.16); and (v) US$1.6 million for interest and other charges
during construction. The Government of Colombia would provide the remaining
US$13.9 million of the project cost. Adequate provisions have been made in
the 1973-1976 Investment Budget and it is within the Government's capacity
to implement this budget (para. 4.09).
VI. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
6.01      Project Implementation.  ICCE, the school construction agency of the
Ministry of National Education, is responsible for the implementation of the
first two education projects. ICCE's performance has been generally satis-
factory and initial shortcomings in project implementation are being overcome.
It is therefore proposed that ICCE also be charged with administration, co-
ordination and supervision of the implementation of the third project. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the existing posts of: (a) General
Manager, procurement officer, accountant and necessary supporting staff, and
(b) Assistant Manager for Construction and Assistant Manager for Pedagogics,
will continue to be filled by suitable staff during project execution. New
appointments in posts under (b) would be in consultation with the Bank; their
salaries and other operational expenditures for project administration are
included in the project.
6.02      Professional Services.  The professional services provided by ICCE
for the first two education projects comprised part of the design work and
the supervision of construction and equipping of all project schools. Since
the first project was signed, ICCE has quadrupled in size and has become cap-
able of handling the larger part of architectural work for the proposed project.
Preliminary studies on prototypes for the common facilities centers have been
completed and the remaining design work is being prepared. Professional ser-
vices required for the rural development services' center will be carried out
by the staff of the Las Gaviotas center under ICCE's supervision.
6.03      ICCE would be in charge of the preparation of furniture and equipment
lists, and tender documents. Draft lists were discussed and reviewed during
appraisal; the final lists are being prepared and will be submitted to the
Bank for its concurrence before procurement.
6.04      Procurement.  All contracts for the supply of equipment and furni-
ture and for the construction of schools would be awarded under international



- 22 -
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Equipment and furni-
ture items would be grouped to form sizable bid packaging for bulk purchasing;
civil works contractors would be prequalified. Except for equipment, it is
unlikely that many foreign bidders would be interested since Colombia has a
well-developed furniture industry and a large, highly competitive construc-
tion industry which are expected to win all contracts. Domestic manufacturers
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of c.i.f. basic prices or the
existing import duty, whichever is lower. Colombia is a member of LAFTA and
_h.e Andean Pact. Regional manufacturers would, however, not be allowed pref-
erential treatment since ICCE is exempted from import duties, and there is no
provision in these agreements for the application of regional preferences in
bid evaluation by tax-exempt public agencies. As for the first two education
projects, ICCE would be responsible for preparing and issuing tenders, eval-
uating bids and awarding contracts. Under the first two projects, procurement
of furniture and equipment has been out of step with the implementation of
civil works. To remedy this situation, ICCE's procurement capacity has been
strengthened with additional qualified staff and the procurement unit has
recently been transferred to a higher organizational level. During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that an adequately staffed, well-organized
procurement unit will be maintained.
6.05      Maintenance.  Budgetary allocations for the maintenance of INEM
schools included in the first two projects have been adequate, but the need
for regular maintenance '  insufficiently understood by some school princi-
pals and actual maintenance is not always carried out satisfactorily. Assur-
ances have been obtained from the Government that adequate provisions will be
made to ensure effective maintenance of the educational facilities included
in the proposed and ongoing projects. These provisions should comprise budg-
etary allocations, the issuing of maintenance manuals and regular supervision.
6.06      Disbursement.  The proposed loan of US$21.2 million would be dis-
bursed in 3-1/2 years to meet: (i) the c.if. cost of directly imported
equipment and furniture and 80% of local costs of equipment and furniture; (ii)
30% of the cost of civil works other than under (iii), professional services
and project administration; (iii) 70% of the cost of civil works for the rural
development services' centers; (iv) 80% of the cost of technical assistance;
and (v) interest and other charges during construction.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      A satisfactory plan to strengthen the administrative and pedagogic
capacity of ICCE's Pedagogic Directorate has been submitted to the Bank (para.
5.05). A condition of effectiveness of the Loan is the submission to the Bank
of a detailed plan for the implementation of the technical teacher training
program (para. 5.15).
7.02      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
matt.c-s:



- 23 -
(i) arrangements for agricultural field work to be carried
out by the students of the common facilities centers (para. 5.04);
(ii)  establishment of a vocational education supervisory service
(para. 5.06);
(iii)  close cooperation of the rural comprehensive schools with
SENA, ACP0 and the Development Agencies operating in the
particular region (para. 5.09);
(iv)  full coordination between the Unit for Rural Development
in the Ministry of Education and the Pedagogic Directorate
of ICCE (para. 5.10);
(v) cooperation and advisory assistance for the implementation
of the technical teacher training program to be sought from
SENA (para. 5.14);
(vi)  establishment of a tracer system (para. 5.21); and
(vii)  provision of sufficient funds for teaching materials and
maintenance, the issuing of maintenance manuals for the
project institutions and supervision of maintenance
(paras. 4.05 and 6.05).
7.03      The proposed project forms a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$21.2 million to the Republic of Colombia for a period of 30 years in-
cluding a ten-year grace period.






APPEND LY A
Page 1
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
The Formal System
Primary Education
1.        Primary education starts at the age of seven and lasts five years.
Attendance is compulsory by law if not in fact because of a shortage of
schools, many of which have only one, two or three grades.  In 1970, 70% of
the 7-11 age group were enrolled in primary schools but their numbers were
increased by about 30% of over-age students who either started school late
or were among the large numbers of repeaters. The dropout rate is high.
Of each 100 students who began primary school in 1964, only 27 graduated'
five years later (Annex 5). However, in breaking these figures down for
rural-urban differences only 6% of students who started in rural areas fin-
ished compared with 47% of urban students.
2.        In 1970, 80% of primary students were enrolled in public schools,
which are nearly all departmental or municipal. In public education 71% of
the primary teachers are fully qualified and another 16% are partly qualified.
The Governnent has established a program for the in-service training of pri-
mary teachers which should help improve their qualifications. The primary
school curriculum, although now in process of revision, still contains many
subjects to be covered through teacher lecturer, rote memorization and exam-
ination. Although textbooks are still scarce, a major effort has been under-
way to distribute at least one textbook to each child.
Secondary Education
3.        In 1970, 19% of youth between the ages of 12-18 were enrolled in
secondary education. Six types of secondary programs: academic (70%),
normal (9%), industrial (6%), commercial (12%), agricultural (1%) and social
services (2%) are offered in separate institutions and a seventh, the new
diversified education system combines elements of all six except normal edu-
cation in one institution (Annex 6 and Chart 2).
4.        Academic Education is a six-year course, divided into a lower cycle
of four and an upper cycle of two years, leading to the "'Bachillerato" degree.
University entrance is the principal aim of academic education and classical
subjects predominate. Very brief exposure to industrial arts for boys and
home economics for girls is provided in the first four-year cycle; none during
the second.  Schools are generally overcrowTded and poorly equipped; most lack
functional laboratories and workshops.
5.        Normal Education follows the academic program during the firs.
four-year cycle and has a two-year professional cycle to prepare primary
school teachers. Graduates of the six year course receive the degree of



APPENDIX A
Page 2
"Maestro".  The output of the normal schools is sufficient to meet the need
for qualified primary teachers.
6.        Industrial Education is a seven-year program designed to prepare
students for direct employment in industry. The first cycle of four years
follows in general the academic curriculum but students spend an additional
30% of their time in workshops and on technology studies. Following the suc-
cessful completion of the first four-year cycle, students are awarded the
"Experto" degree. They can seek employment as skilled workers or continue
to the second cycle of three years, where students specialize intensively
in the various industrial areas. The second cycle leads to the degree of
"Bachiller Tecnico Industrial" and subsequent employment as middle-level
technician or further studies in post-secondary technical institutes or
universities.
7.        Commercial Education prepares students for employment in commerce,
banking, industry and business administration. At the end of the first four-
year cycle the degree of "Auxiliar de Contabilidad y Secretariado" is obtained.
After two additional years of intensified vocational training, successful
graduates receive th,e degree of "Bachiller Tecnico Conercial" which gives
access to university education.
3.        Agricultu al Education offers a lower four-year cycle which combines
classical and technical subjects and an upper three-year cycle which stresses
the specific technical-agricultural fields.  Graduates are awarded the degree
of "Bachiller Tecnico Agropecuario." Technical Agricultural Institutes (ITA's)
combine the upper- 4nd post-secondary level and offer specialized training of
a terminal character. Three new ITA's have recently been established with
assistance from the .UNDP Special Fund.
9.        Social Services Education provides girls with a general home eco-
nomics-oriented secondary education in a five--year program. In the first
cycle of three years about 35% of class time is spent in workshop activities.
Successful comtpletion of this cycle is recognized by the degree of "Experta."
At the conclusion of the secord cycle, a graduate is awarded the title of
"Profesora."
10.       Diversified Secondary Education combines basic academic education
with pre-vocational orientation and training. Students have the opportunity
to engage in various types of work experience in workshops and laboratories
and, through guidance and vocational counseling, select a field of work
most suitable to their interests and abilities. During the first four-year
cycle students pass through a range of pre-vocational courses orienting them
towards a specialized area in industrial, commercial, social services, agri-
cultural or academic fields on which they concentrate during the final two-
year cycle(Annex 11 and Chart 5). Diversified education is offered in 19
secondary schools (INEM's), financed under the first and second education proj-
ects. The first ThEM was opened in 1970 and when all schools enroll to capa-
city in 1976, total enrollment will be 79,000, or 11% of total secondary en-
rollment in that year.



APPENDIX A
Page 3
Post-Secondary Education
11.       One of the important features of higher education is the wide and
confusing variety of institutions differing in quality, size, support, or-
ganization, function and accreditation. In 1970 there were 45 institutions
officially designated as universities but a number of these were not universi-
ties in the sense of providing full courses leading to a university degree.
At the same time other institutions calling themselves "colegios" were
actually functioning as degree-awarding universities. Although there are
a few superior universities a large number are poorly equipped, courses
are poorly taught by part time professors, and curricula are out of date.
Dropout rates are high: of those who enter the university only 55% graduate.
The need to improve efficiency in post-secondary education is widely recognized
but because of the autonomous nature of the institutions at this level, re-
forms have been slow, piece-meal and, for political reasons, partly beyond
government influence. In recent years waves of student strikes have had the
effect of keeping higher education in turmoil.
12.       The most popular fields of study in the universities are engineering,
26%; administration and economics, 15%; health, 12%; education, 11%; and law,
11%. In addition, technological or polytechnic institutes, some affiliated
with universities, operate to prepare high level manpower in the commercial,
technological and agricultural fields. About 6% of the post-secondary stu-
dents are enrolled in these institutes. In cooperation with ICFES, the
Higher Education Institute, the better universities are now taking steps
to modernize their courses, gear their curriculum to the needs of the com-
munity and establish inter-university links to avoid duplication of services.
13.       Secondary teachers are trained in the pedagogic faculties of the
universities in four-year courses. To improve the quality of teacher train-
ing the UNDP is providing assistance to some of the pedagogic faculties.
The project includes educational research, and training and in-service train-
ing of secondary teachers, administrators and supervisors. The UNDP project
has been extended to 1976 and includes technical assistance for a special
program for the training of 2,000 technical teachers which is part of the
proposed Bank project. This program will be administered by the pedagogic
faculties in four of the best-functioning regional universities.
The Non-Formal System
14.       SENJA, the National Apprenticeship Service, is Colombia's most im-
portant non-formal education institution. It operates under the Ministry of
Labor as a semi-autonomous Decentralized Agency. SENA's main function is to
provide specific technical training for workers at various levels. The most
important source of income is a 2% tax on salaries and wages paid by public
and private enterprises with a capital exceeding 50,000 pesos or with at least



APPENDIX A
Page 4
10 workers. The total budget for 1970 was 410 million pesos. As of 1970
SENA was operating 83 training centers. Between 1958 and 1970 SENA trained
2,000 instructors and over 700,000 workers in some 25,000 courses. SENA
undertakes several types of vocational training. Apprenticeship training is
designed for young people of the ages 14-20 who have completed primary school.
Alternating between training center and work site, trainees attend for a
maximum of three years and complete the course as a skilled worker.  Other,
shorter courses include general upgrading courses for unskilled workers,
upgrading or promotion courses for skilled workers, specialization courses
for highly skilled workers and several courses at the professional level.
SENA also provides technical assistance upon payment for the training of
personnel in enterprises.
15.       There is a high demand for the training provided by SENA and the
applications for its courses always exceed the number of places available.
Further, SENA's center for instructor training is working at full capacity
and needs to be expanded. The 1971-1975 Plan calls for a large expansion
to keep in pace with Colombia's manpower needs. For the most part employers,
trade unions and workers appear to be satisfied with SENA training. However
a number of criticisms are heard: that SENA's programs are too expensive,
that it prefers to train sk;illed workers to the neglect of the semi-skilled
and that it does not pri -ide sufficient training opportunities for organiza-
tions with less than 10 employees and for the unemployed. Thus, left un-
trained are large numbers of workers in smaller firms and those who are un-
employed and without skills. In 1972 a coordinating committee was formed
among SENA, the Ministry of Education and the National Planning Department,
which is studying ways in which the formal and non-formal systems can be
better coordinated, particularly in view of the development of diversified
secondary education, so as to reinforce the efforts of both systems to train
the manpower needed for a growing and diversifying economy.
16.       Accion Cultural Popular (ACPO) also known as Radio Sutatenza, is a
private institution whose main goal is basic education of the masses, espe-
cially the adult rural population, through radiophonic schools. ACPO has
six broadcasting stations and annually trains 750 young adults at three train-
ing centers to act as community leaders. In 1968 a total of 22,000 radiopho-
nic schools operated in the country; almost all in the rural areas. In 1971
the number of listeners was 150,000 with nearly 50,000 hours of transmission
time. The organization commands high prestige in Colombia because of its
accomplishments.
17.       The Ministry of Education through its Division of Adult Education
administers literacy and general education programs for adults who have not
completed primary and secondary school. Literacy programs are conducted at
special literacy centers and are taught by volunteer public and private
school teachers, and students in their last year of secondary school. Popu-
lar Culture Centers provide the educational equivalent to primary school,
and _lVE2's and various technical schools provide secondary education for



APPENDIX A
Page 5
adults at night. In 1971 a total of 393 centers and 2,400 teachers were
part of the adult education system. Through its Division of Radio and
Television, the Ministry of Education organizes and supervises educational
programs broadcast over radio and TV. Since these activities were initiated
only recently, no systematic evaluation of existing TV programs has been
completed yet.
18.       Capacitacion Popular is a program, still in an experimental stage,
for providing educational television to adults, usually in urban centers.
It operates under the Ministry of Cormmunications through the semi-autonomous
National Institute of Radio and Television (INTRAVISIONT). 1Workbooks in basic
subjects are distributed to adults who attend a tele-center where they v- :ch
the television program in groups under the guidance of a volunteer "teacher."






APPENDIX B
Page 1
LOCATION OF PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
(See Map)
Common Facilities Centers
1.        The underlying strategy for selecting the locations of common
facilities centers was to spread diversified secondary education previously
introduced by the 19 INEM schools, throughout the country and especially to
medium-size cities with growth potential. A number of carefully selected
criteria were applied by the Government. The selection of the 24 locations
was based on demographic and census data, manpower need projections, educa-
tional surveys, Government. long term development plans, and an identifica-
tion of Departments which had not as yet been exposed to diversified educa-
tion.
2.        Size of population was a key factor because the city should have
a sufficient secondary school enrollment to warrant construction of a
common facilities center of economic size. Thus, with a few exceptions,
cities between the population of 100,000 and 300,000 were selected. Four
larger cities, Medellin (1,208,000), Cartagena (355,000), Cucuta (320,000)
and Manizales (301,000) were also included for several reasons. 1/ They
represent rapidly growing population centers and will become increasingly
important centers of industry and commerce. Each of these cities is already
the location of an INEM school and the Government wished to experiment with
ways in which adjacent INEM's and common facilities centers could supplement
each other's activities and form a critical mass of schools engaged in implement-
ing the new curriculum. The small city of San Andres at 30,000 population
was selected because of its isolation on an off-shore island; because of its
rapidly growing population and its growing importance in agriculture and
fisheries.
3.        Popayan (102,000) and Duitama (150,000) are expected to develop
into important tourist resorts while Neiva (122,000) is rapidly becoming the
cattle export center for the southeast plains of Colombia and is the closest
city to the new oil explorations near the Ecuador border. Armenia (210,000)
is in the heart of the vital coffee-growing region; nearby Manizales (310,000)
and Pereira (251,000) serve as the regional commercial and transportation
network center, respectively, of that region. Five cities have undergone
industrial expansion considerably in excess of 1967 projections and this was one
of the criteria for the selection of Duitama (150,000), Sincelejo (74,000),
Tulua (147,000), Girardot (104,000) and Barrancabermeja (99,000). By examin-
ing the increased enrollment in SENA courses in agriculture between 1960 to
1969 it was possible to identify six cities where interest in agricultural,
1/   Numbers between brackets are population figures of 1972.



APPENDIX B
Page 2
as well as in industrial training had jumped significantly. These are Valle-
dupar (130,000), Quibdo (47,000), Palmira (205,000), Sincelejo (74,000),
Florencia (60,000) and Riohacha (56,000). Ibague (200,000) is somewhat isolated
in one of the country's central plains and will become an increasingly
important center of agricultural marketing and industry. Villavicencio
(85,000) is located at the western edge of the country's vast eastern plains
and is becoming the key center for the eastern regions.  The remaining three
cities of Pasto (108,000), Santa Marta (170,000) and Ocana (48,000) all
possess potential for industrial and commercial development but also are
1o2ated in key geographical positions to give the diversified education
movement the widest country coverage.
Rural Comprehensive Schools
4.        The locations of the schools have been carefully selected among
the regions with growth potential and development activites already underway
by the various Government agricultural development agencies. A second
criteria was that the catchment area of a school should have sufficient
school-age children and roads to make schools accessible within the area.
Each center selected was to cover about 200 km2, be populated by some 20,000
persons and contain a Municipality of around 7,000 population. A total of
39 centers meeting these qualifications were selected for the location of
rural comprehensive schools. Thirteen new schools would be included in the
project; the remaining 26 will be established with USAID assistance through
the extension of existing facilities.
5.        Five locations of rural comprehensive schools included in the
project are in the northernmost states of the country. Turbo, Necocli,
Acandi, Maria La Baja and Cienaga are all located in the most tropical
regions of the country and their major crops are tropical fruits, sugar
cane, some cattle and general agriculture. San Andres (in the Department of
Santander) and Caqueza are located in the east central part of the country where
cattle growing predominates. Aguados, in the cenitral valley, is in the vital
coffee-growing region. Puerto Boyaca, in the north central region has general
agriculture. The three regions of Quilichao, Sibundoy and Yacuanquer in the
far south specialize in cattle raising and general agriculture.
Technical Teacher Training Program
6.        Four criteria were used for the location of the technical teacher
training program. In the first place, the program should be carried out in
cooperation with a well-functioning university faculty of pedagogy which
would agree to depart significantly from the traditional theory-oriented
teacher training program. Secondly, the centers had to be located in areas
where there existed an appropriate range of cooperating institutions such
as a university faculty of pedagogy, polytechnic institutes, SENA centers
and INEM schools. Thirdly, the programs were to enroll persons already
working; thus the centers had to be located near large population centers.



APPENDIX B
Page 3
Fourth, as much geographic spread as possible should be achieved in view
of the strong regional preference of teachers.
7.        Four locations were selected on the basis of these criteria:
(i) Medellin, serving the northwest Departments was chosen and
the faculty of pedagogy at the University of Antioquia
was designated as the degree-granting and administering
institution.
(ii) Bogota and its National Pedagogical University was selected
for the central region of the country.
(iii) Bucaramanga was the city selected for the northeast region
where the University of Pamplona faculty of pedagogy was
designated as directing the program.
(iv) For the central and western states, the city of Pereira was
selected and the Faculty of Pedagogy at the Technological
University of Pereira designated as program administrator.






g  Z~~~~~~~~~2
2  222      2 222            22-       -22         22                                   ~22          2
. . . .g . .2                                                  2.                                2             22      2    .2      22       222.2                  2 2.2
Z9  Z2                                                               2         22Z2 ~9 '7 29    t22,.    
* I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~sz                                                           ...    .; .
222~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2~~~~~~~~~   2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
zz ~ ~        ~         ~         ~        ~          2    2     2     222                                                              p     2     2    2     2     2    2     2      
2.  22222  2..22..22222~2.2..~   222                                2           2          2          2        22~2'222.2  222222222.2                     222                 22222222.2~c2 



I



Latin America Education Indicators*
PRINAY                                                SECONDARY                                                       HIGHER                             FINANCEs
X of prescribed
Enrollment: Av.                   secondary school   Enrollment: Av..   Enrollment: %   Graduates per    Enrollment: Av.    Graduates per                               % of national
annual rate of       Drop-out    age population        annual rate of        in academic       100,000 pop.       annual rate of        100,000 pop.       h of QNP       budget
growth 1960-1971       Rate       enrolled 1970         growth 1960-1971   course 1968            1970            growth 1960-1971          1970             1969          1969
Argentina                  2              46%              44                     5%                22%               509                     2%               100              2.3 3'
Bolivia                   6                -               22                     57.               89%               183                    13%                16              3.1             26.2
Brazil                    6               64%              25                    13%                727               636                    25%                60                -             17.5-
Chile                     6               57%              39                     8%                69%               378                    12%                61              4.8             10.6
Colombia                  ,               72%              22                    11% A/             69%               220                    20%                25              4.8 !/           14,6!
Costa Rica                6               43%              36                    117                90%               308                    19%                73              6.4             35.0
Dominican Republic        4               70%              19                    13%                70%               511                     -                 25               -              16 0
Ecuador                   6               637              18                    127                56%               151                    177                 -  bi          4.0 -l          21:8 !/V_
El Salvador               5               60%              -                      9%                69%                 -                    17%                  9               -               -
Guatemala                 7               75%              11                    10%                72%               105                     -                  11              1 9 f/          15.8
Honduras                  6                -               12                    11%                73%               214                    14%                15              3.2              19.5
Hexico                    6               61%              17                    12%                712               540                     8%                74                -              13 5
Nicaragua                 7               79%              21                    15%                83%               246                    21b                 19              2.6 e/          19:0 !/
Panama                    5               55%              43                     87                66%               548                     9X                28              4.6             34.6
Paraguay                  4               68%              18                     9%                86%               246                     5%                29              2 1              16 9
Peru                      7                -               38                    137                84%               571                    11%                68              4:2  '           19.45c
Uruguay                    2              287              57                      6%               65%               507                     -                  37               -               -
Venezuela                 4               61%              43                    11%                74%                 -                     3%                43              4.5              20.9
-/For 1960-1968
b/Government closed higher level schools
c/Ministry of Education only
d/Excludes local authority expenditures
e/1968
f/Federal Government only
M!ission estimates for 1970
Source: UNESCO "Development and Trends in the Expansion of Education in Latin America and the Caribbean: Statistical Data"
USAID "Summary: Economic and Social Indicators 18 Latin American Countries",
a The purpose of this table is to facilitate global intercountry comparison. Although much effort has been made to attain comparability
of concepts, the data should be used with caution.  Estimates or approximations are sometimes included when exact statistics were not available.






ANNEX -3
COLaKBIA
GDP and Employment,1970-1980
1970                  1980
Amount        _        Amount
Gross Domestic Product
(millions of pesos, 1970 prices)
Agriculture                             34, 600        29      61,000       24
Mining, Manufacturing, Construction     32,200         25      70,000       27
Services                                60,000         46     124,000       49
Total GDP                              129,800        100     255,000      100
Labor Force
(in thousands)
Agriculture                              2,350         41        2,750       34
Mining, Manufacturing, Construction      1,150         20       1,700       21
Services                                 2,270         39       3,700       45
Total Employment                         5,770        100       8,150       100
Unemployment                               710                  1,000
Total Labor Force                        6,480                  9,150
Source:  1970:  Economic Position and Prospects of Colombia, IBRD No. WH-211a
January 1h,1972 and Mission estimates.
1980:  Mission Estimates.



ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
Outputs of the Formal Education System, 1960 - 1968 and 1969
Graduates of Primary Education
Average Annual Rate
1960       1964      1968       of Increase 1960-1968
75,900     130,000   230,000            14.9%
Graduates of Secondary Education
Average Annual Rate
1960       126       1968       of Increase 1960-1968
Academic                     8,070      13,902    23,728
Industrial                     199         445     1,223
Commercial                     725         873     1,200
Agriculture                     90          92        220
Social Services                450         529        675
Teacher Training             2,099       2,706     7,095
Totals                11,633       18,547    34,141            14.4%
Graduates of Higher Education
Average Annual Rate
1964       1966      1969       of Increase 1964-1969
Agriculture and Related        271         460        717
Sciences                       478         300        426
Social Sciences                488       1,070     1,832
Law                            793         771        739
Education                      426         773        765
Humanities                     100         456        518
Fine Arts                      15          254       333
Engineering and Related        718         809     1,748
Medicine and Related           699         955       448
Totals                  3,998       5,848     7,526            13.5%
Source: Ministry of Inncation



COLOMBIA
Ehrollment by Grade and Controlling Authori ty, 1968
PRIMARY EDUCATION
Sub-Total
Grade 1      Grade 2       Grade 3      Grade 4       Grade 5     Boys       Girls      Total      % of Total
Total          1,056,080       659,460      449,150       317,850      250$e60   1,363,424  1,369,976   2,733,400    100.0
Public                                                                            1,108,024  1,105,376   2,213,400       80.9
Private                                                                             255,400    264,600      520,000      19.1
SECONIDARY EDUCATION
Total                       Total
First                       Second       Sub-Total              % of
Grade 1  Grade 2  Grade 3  Grade 4   Cycle   Grade 5  Grade 6   Cycle    Boys    Girls    Total   Total
Total            213,937  129,291   91,796   66,840  501,860   48,496   36,344   84,840  296,529  290,171 586,70o  100.0
Public                                                                                       158,210  114,580 272,790   46.5
Private                                                                                      138,319  175,591 313,910   53.5
HIGHER EDUCATION
(Universit-y)
Sub-Total                % of
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Unknown   Total    Boys        Girls    Total   Total
Total            24,404   14,103   9,776      7,325    4,151       731    4,654   65,144   47,599   17,145   65,144   100.0
Public                                                                                       26,561    9,571   36,132    55.5
Private                                                                                      21,438    7,574   29,012    44.5
Source: Education Census, 1968



ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA
Enrollment and Teachers
by Type of Education, 1968
PRIMARY EDUCATION
- ~~~~~~~~ - ~~~~~~~Pupil -Teacher
Type             1Enrollment        Teachers          Ratio
Public                2,213,400          62,340           36:1
Private                 520,000          38,290           14l:
Total            2,733,400         100,630           27:1
SECONDARY EDUCATION
Academic
Public                  177,550          12,860           14:1
Private                 228,230          25 740            9:1
Sub-Total      405;780                                 11:1
Teacher Training
Public                   38,590           3,338          12:1
Private                  15 610           2,069            8:1
Sub-Total                             150:07           1Os
Industrial
Public                   27,785           2,452          11:1
Private                  10.271             06             8:1
Sub-Total             38J505                           10:1
Commercial
Public                   16,270          1,350           12:1
Private                  52,960           6,493            8:1
Sub-Total              69,230          7843             9:1
Agriculture
Public                    6.,180            6144         lOl
Private                 1750              170           10:1
Sub-Total              7,930              14           10:1
Social Services
Public                    6,415             846            8:1
Private                   5089              822           6:1
Sub-Total             11,504h                           7:1
To tal
Public           272,790          21,490           13:1
Private          313.910          36A600            9:1
Grand Tbtal      586,700          58,o0o           10:1
HIGR EDWCATION
University
Public                  36,132            5,088           7:1
Private                 29^12             3,772           8:1
Total               65,144           8,860            7:1
Technological Institutes
Total                4,000
Source: Edr-.at-.ton Census, 1968



ANNEX 7
COLOMBIA
School-Age Population and Enrollment Projections, 1970-1980
(in thousands)
Primary      Secondary      Higher
1970             (7-11)        (12-18)        (19-24)      Totals
Total Population in
Age Group             3,053          3,647         2,237
Participation Rate        99% _/         19% a2/      3.5%
ihrollment              3,026            696            78        3,800
% in Public Schools        82%           49%           56%          75%
1975
Total Population in
Age Group             3,437          4,178         2,829
Participation Rate       103%            25%          4.5%
Enrollment              3,560          1,050            127       4,737
% in Public Schools        83%           52%           55%          75%
1980
Total Population in
Age Group             4,155          4,612         3,471
Participation Rate       110%            33%          5.5%
Enrollment              4,570          1,530           191        6,291
% in Public Schools        85%           55,'           55%         76%
a/  includes over-age students estimated at 30% of primary and 114% of secondary
students in 1970 and a subsequent decreasing proportion.
Source: Mission estimates



aNNEX 8
COLaKBIA
Sources of Education Finance, 1965 and 1970
(in millions of pesos)
1965               1970
Amount    %        Amount      %
Ministry of Education                        782    35          2,486      40
Other Ministries                             104     5            181      3
National Government, Total                   886    40          2,667     43
Decentralized Agencies                       160      7           773     12
Central Government, Total                  1,046    47          3,440     55
Departments                                  479    21          1,080     18
Municipalities                               101      5_ 270                4
Public Sector, Tbtal                       1,626    73          4,790     77
Private Sector                               610    27          1,460      23
Total Education Expenditures a/            2,236   100          6,250    100
Gross Domestic Product                            60,80O              129,800
National Government Bud,get                        5P808               18,238
National Government's Share of GDP                   9.6%               14.1%
Share of Education in National Government
Budget:
- Ministry of Edueation                    13.5%                13.6%
-  Other Ministries                         1.8%                 1.0%
- Total                                    15.36                14.6%
Education Expenditures as -Proportion-of GDP:
- Public                                   :2.7%                  3.7%
-  Private                                  1.0%                  1.1
-  Total                                    3-7%                  4.8
a/ Including external assistance to all of the above authorities.
Source: 1965: Boletin DANE, October 1971 and mission estimates.
1270: Boletin Dir. Gen. del Presupuesto, 1970, Informe
Financiero, 1?70 and issdion estimates.



ANNEX 9
COLOMBIA
Education Expenditures by Level, 1970
(in millions of pesos)
Other                                 Share Minis-
Ministry of  Author-                                try of
Level of Education    Education      ities       Total     Distribution   Education
Primary                    260        1,760      2,020          32             13
Secondary                  450        1,280      1,730         28              26
Higher                     250        1,000      1,250          20             20
Other                      300           50      1,250         20              24
Expenditures, Total      1,260       4t,99o      6,250        100              20
Transfers                1,230       -1,230
Financing, Total         2,490        3,760      6,250                         40
Source: Boletin Dir. Gen. del Presupuesto, 1970, Informe Financiero, 1970
and missidon estimates.



ANNEX 10
COLOMBIA
Education E_penditures, 1970-1980
(in millions of pesos,1970 prices)
1970                     1980
Amount                   Amount       %
Expenditures by Level
Primary                       2,020      32              3,600     24
Secondary                     1,730      28              4,900     34
Higher                        1,250      20              3,200     22
Other                         1,250      20              2,900     20
Total                         6-250                      43       100
Financing by Sourc
Ministry of Education         2,490      40              7,600     52
Other Public Authorities      2,300      37              4,400     30
Private                       1,460      23              2,600     18
Total                         6,250     100             14,600    100
Gross Domestic Product                   129,800                     255,000
Education Expenditures as
Proportion of GDP:
- public                               3.7%                       47%
- private                              1.1%                       1.0%
-  total                               4.7
National Government Budget                 18,200                     38,000
Share Ivdnistry of Education in
National Government Budget               13.6%                         20%
Source: Mission estimates.



ANNEX 1 1
COLOMBIA
Curriculum for Diversified Secondary Education
COURSES                                                 GRADES
1      2      3      4       5        6
Academic
Spanish                              4      4      4      4        4       4
Modern Languages                     5      5      3
Social Studies                       4      4      4      4        4       4
Mathematics                          5      5      5      5
Natural Sciences                     3      3      3      5
Religion                             2      2      2      2        2       2
Philosophy                                                         2       2
Art                                  2      2      2      2                2
Physical Education                   2      2      2      2        2       2
Pre-Vocational
Vocational Exploration a/            5      5
Vocational Orientation b/                         10     10
Occupational Orientation c/                                       20      15
Elective                                3      3      0       1       1       4
Total Hours Per Week          35      35     35     35      35       35
a/  During the first two years students take seven exploratory subjects in rotation
every seven weeks. Subjects available are: metal mechanics, electricity, tech-
nical drawing, conservation, agriculture, typing, commerce, community service,
nutrition and occupational informati.on.
b/ With assistance of guidance councilors each student selects an area of concen-
tration in the academic, industrial, agricultural, commercial or social services
field.
c/ During the last two years students specialize in one of the following fi.elds:
sciences, humanities, accounting, secretarial training, metal mechanics, electri-
city/electronics, construction, indutrial chemistry, home economics, health,
community development and agri.culture.



COLOMBIA - COMMON FACILITIES CENTERS
Enrollment in Designated Participating Schools - 1972 and 1978
Academic                  Commercial                 Industrial                 Total, 1972         Projected Enrollment,1978
No. of       Total                      Total                     Total                                    without        with
No.         Location            Schools   Enrollment       Schools   Enrollment       Schools  Enrollment       Schools   Enrollment         CFC           CFC
1      Sincelejo                  3         2,228                                                                 3         2,228  /       2,562          3,960
2      Cartagena                  3         4,662                                                                 3         4,662 -         3,362         5,400
3      Santa Marta                3         2,126                                                                 3         2,126           2,965         4,600
4      Riohacha                   3         1,735            1           155                                      4         1,890           2,413         3,760
5      Valledupar                 3         1,771                                       1          255            4         2,026           2,287         3,600
6      San Andres                 4           713                                       1           73            5            786          1,446         2,320
7      Ocana                      4         1,521                                       1          438            5         1,959          2,194          3,520
8      Cucuta                     2         1,092            1           317                                      3         1,409           2,350         3,680
9      Barrancabermeja            2         1,323            1         1,243                                      3         2,566           3,013         4,800
10      Medellin                   4         4,352                                                                 4         4,352 -         3,648         5,840
11      Duitama                    4         2,507                                                                 4         2,507           3,685         5,760
12      Quibdo                     2         1,694                                                                 2         1,694           1,671         2,680
13      Pereira                    2         3,383            1           181                                      3         3,564           3,744         5,800
14      Manizales                  5         1,920                                       1          589            6         2,509           3,507         5,600
15      Ibague                     4         3,408                                                                 4         3,408           3,554         5,680
16      Armenia                    2         2,803                                                                 2         2,803           3,801         5,800
17      Girardct                   5         2,222                                       1          233            6         2,455           3,317         5,120
18      Villavicencio              2         1,846                                       1          560            3         2,406           2,984         4,600
19      Tulua                      2         1,676                                       1          540            3         2,216           2,917         4,520
20      Palmira                    2         2,943                                                                  2        2,943           3,547         5,680
21      Neiva                      4         2,121                                                                 4         2,121           2,877         4,600
22      Popayan                    5         2,437                                                                 5         2,437           2,982         4,600
23      Pasto                      4         1,653            1           662                                       5        2,315           2,605         4,040
24      Florencia                  3         1,206            _           _              1          214            4          1,42           2.024         2,920
TOTALS                    77       53,342             5         2,558            8        2,902           90        58,802         69,455       108,880
a/Existing unsuitable facilities will be abandoned.



COLOMBIA: COMMON FACILITIES CENTERS
Projected Numbers of Graduates
Social
No.     Location                  Acadedkc       Industrial       Commercial     Agriculture      Services            Total
Cycle al  I      II       I       II        I     II      I       II        I      II        I       II
1   Sincelejo                  6       42      24      125       19     140    13        91     10       57       72       455
2   Cartagena                  4       80      19      205      17      215      -       -      19       65       59       565
3   Santa Marta                5       39      23      143       23     153    15       100     12       69       78       504
4   Riohacha                   6       42      20      121       22     129    12        85       7      52       67       429
5   Valledupar                 4       36      20      103       10     111     7        73       5      35       46       358
6   San Andres                 7       36      13       84       13     102      -       -        4      29       37       251
7   Ocana                      6       42      20      135       22     131      -       -        7      52       55       360
8   Cucuta                     6       141     15      108       18     116   1U         77       5      50       55       392
9   Barrancabermeja           10       75      29      187       31     203      -       -        9      65       79       530
10   Medellin                  10       70      25      216       31     224      -       -       15      70       81        580
U1   Duitama                    9       64      21      172       24     240    16       120       9      68       79       664
12   Quibdo                     5       44      12      111       15     121      -       -        5      35       37        311
13   Pereira                    8        68     21      180       25     198    10       129      10      79       74        654
14   Manizales                  8       77      30      205       28     230      -       -        6      71       72.       583
15   Ibague                    11       74      28      205       31     218      -        -       9      83       79        580
16   Armenia                    8       68      21      159       25     198    15       129      10      79       79        633
17   Girardot                   6        38     24      153       23     176    22       100      11      66       86        533
18   Villavicencio              5        37     19      140       21     170    12       105       6      60       63        512
19   Tulua                      4       41      16      143       17     161    12       I16       7      60       56        521
20   Palmira                   11       74      35      212       15     234      -       -       U       68       72        588
21   Neiva                      9       70      22      180       25     200      -       -        7      66       63        516
22   Popayan                    5       40      23      140       22     158    11       103       9      65       70        506
23   Pasto                      9       57      17      141       18     142    10        85       7      56       61        481
24   Florencia                  5       44      -         -       U1     100      9       83       8      78       33        305
Total                    167    1,299    497    3,568       506   4,070   175    1,396    208   1,478   1,553    11,811
*/ Cycle I encomi asses 4 grades (6 - 9) and provides vocational orientation;
Cycle II encompasses 2 grades (10 - U) and provides occupatio'nal orientation.
F



COLOBIA:  CCWON FACILITIES CMTERS
Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Requirements
Total                                                              Total                   Secret-
Enroll-          b/                           Social c/  Agri-    Teachers   Adminis-   arial and
No.   Location              ments     Academic  Industrial  Commercial  Services   culture  in CFC's   trative    Other
1.   Sincelejo              3,g60       25          19            9         6           5         64         30         32
2.   Cartagena              5,400        40         28           15         8           -         91         33         37
3.   Santa Marta            4,600        32         24           10         8           6         80         33         37
4.   Riohacha               3,760        24         18           10         6           5         63         30         32
5.   Valledupar             3,600        24         17            8         6           5         60         30         32
6.   San Andres             2,320        16         13            7         3           -         39         30         32
7.   Ocana                  3,520        23         17           10         6           -         56         30         32
8.   Cucuta                 3,680       24          18            8         6           5         61         30         32
9.   Barrancabermeja        4,800        33         24           13          8          -         78         33         37
10.   Medellin               5,840        38         32           15         8           -         93         33         37
11.   Duitama                5,760       37          29           12         9           6         93         33         37
12.   Quibdo                 2,680        19         15            7         6           -         47         30         32
13.   Pereira                5,800        41         26           13         9           6         95         33         37
14.   Manizales              5,600       37          30           15         9           -         91         33         37
15.   Ibague                 5,680       37          30           15         9           -         91         33         37
16.   Armenia                5,800       39          26           14         9           6         94         33         37
17.   Girardot               5,120       34          21           12         8           6         81         33         37
18.   Villavicencio          4,600       32          22            9         8           6         77         33         37
19.   Tulua                  4,520       33          22           10         8           6         79         33         37
20.   Palmira                5,680       39          29           15         9           -         92         33         37
21.   Neiva                  4,60p        30         24           12         7           -         73         33         37
22.   Popayan                4,600       32          24           10         8           6         80         33         37
23.   Pasto                  ,040        29          16            9         6           5         65         30         32
24.   Florencia              2,920        21          6            7         6           5         45         30         32
TOTALS       108,880       739        530          265        176          78     1,788         765       843
a/  Fully functioning on double shift operation
b/  Includes science, language and artss
c/  Includes health, child care, sewing, crafts, cooking.



ANNEX l
COLOMBIA - RURAL COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOLS
Enrollment and Teaching Staff of Project - Connected Primary Schools
Present   Projected
No. of     Present   Projected      %      Teaching   Teaching        %
Location     Schools  Enrollment Enrollment Increases   Staff         Staff    Increases
1. Turbo           -44       6,905       7,994      16         151        217         44
2. Necocli          42       2,840       3,422      21          55         84         53
3. Acandi           8          903      1,163       29         14          29        107
4. Los Palmitos    35        3,604       5,150      43          77        128         66
5. Yacuanquer      40        3,282       5,032      53          73        126         73
6. Maria La Baja   24        4,233       6,100      44          62        152        145
7. Caqueza          57      4L,530       6,280      39         140        157         12
8. Aguados        100        8,638     10,873       26         270        271          0
9. Cienaga          18       1,848       2,790      51          46         70         52
10. Puerto Boyaca   47        3,912       5,049      29         145        145          0
11. San Andres       46       2,703       5,370      99          98        134         37
12. Valle del
Sibundoy      16          764      1,340       75         23          38         65
13. Santander de
Quilichao     52        4,346      4,995       15          91        130         43
Totals       529       48,508     65,558       35      1,245       1,681         35
The 529 rural primary schools with expanded enrollment will act as feeder
schools to the 13 rural comprehensive schools to be established
under the proposed project.



ANNEX 16
COLOMBIA: RURAL COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOLS
Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Requirements
Staff Requirement for       Staff Requirement for
Schools with 690          Schools with 490
Subject                    enrollment                enrollment b/
Spanish                                4                           2
Mathematics                            4                           2
Science                                3                           2
Geography                              3                           2
History                                1                           1
Music                                  1                           1
Religion                               1                           1
Agriculture                            4                           3
Home Economics (Social Serviees)       2                           2
Industrial Education                   6                           4
Commercial Education                   1                           1
Physical Education                     2                           1
Administration                         4                           4
Secretarial and Others                19                          19
Extension Services c/                  4                           4
TOTALS  Ebrollment                   7,000
Teaching Staff                376
Non-Teaching Staff            299
Extension Services Staff       52
a] These schools are Turbo, Los Palmitos, Yacuanquer, Maria La Baja, Aguados,
Cienaga, Puerto Boyaca, San Andres, Santander de Quilichao.
b/ These schools are Necocli, Acandi, Caqueza, Valle del Sibundoy.
ic Director and sp<t:iaiists in agricultural, health and home-economics extension.



ANNEX 17
COLOMBIA: TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINING PROGRAM
Technical Teacher Training Requirements for Project and
Project-Relted Secondary Schools, 1974-1977
Rural      Rural
Compre-    Compre-
Common      hensive    hunaive
Facilities  Schools    Schools   Total      Total
Year      Subject            INEK's  Centers      (MRtD)      (Gov't)   Required  Graduating4
Industrial          45                    12          24          81        95
Commercial          14                     3           4          21        25
1974
Social Services     15                     4           9          27        32
Agriculture                                8          16          24        28
Industrial          45          132       12          46         235       275
Commercial          14           66        2           9          91       106
1975
Social Services     15           44        4          17          80        94
Agriculture                      20        8          32          60        70
Industrial          60         265        23          46        394        462
Comuercial          15          133        4           9         161       188
1976
Social Services     20           88        9          17         134       156
Agriculture                      39       16          32          87       102
Induatrial                      133       23                     156       182
Commercial                       66        4                      70        82
1977
Social Services                  44        9                      53        62
Agriculture                      19       16                      35        41
Industrial         150         530        70         116         866     1,014
TOTAL     Commercial           43         265       13           22        343        401
Social Services     50          176       26          43         295       344
Agriculture                      78       48          80         206       241
Grand Total        243        1,049      157         261       1,710     2,000
a/ assuming that 15% will seek employment elsewhere.






ANNEX 18
Page 1
COLOMBIA
UNDP Technical Assistance Program
The 1972-1976 UNDP Country Program for Colombia includes technical
assistance required for the proposed project as follows:
Number of
Man-years
(a) Education Administration and Planning
(UNDP No. COL/721"030)
Education Planning                                     3
Education Finance and Economics                        1.5
Education Administration                               1.5
Consultants                                            2
Total                                               8
(b) Diversified Secondary Education
(UNDP No. COL172/034)
Development and improvement of syllabi and
work projects in metal mechanics, electricity/
electronics, construction and agriculture            2.5
Organization and implementation of vocational
education supervisory service                        h
Consultants                                            1.5
Total                                               8
(c)  Rural Comprehensive Schools
(UNDP No. OOL/72/033)
Planning of Rural Education                             3.5
Methodology of Agricultural Education                   2
Processing of Agricultural Products                     1
Home Economics                                          2
Implementation of vocational education
supervisory service                                  2
Consultanta                                             8.5
Total                                              19



AN3X 18
Page 2
Nambr of
(d)  TecT*4ch,r Train  Program
(lNDPN6. OOL1721035)
Development of Curricula and Syllabi for
inuatriaql electronics, commercial an3
agricultursl. trining                                   3
Consultants                                                 2
Total                                                    5
Total Number of Fpr       rtra                                  40
U---



*                                4  t4  4  0                                        .                                                    r
0.0.   04 -t .4                                  .4      ..4.4a.00W0'WN..-rt               ""oz s+S "-*">0   "
cc~~ | r                             |N             I                        .i  1          4      i0OO O0  2,;M!lR-'N' '   f;l[{iF 1|sF
o t   e N  c N e N e N  n ~~~~~~~~~ IF             .~
*"~~~~- NX  XoX   X.C4S 
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A                                                                          W
jt    0 N                                                                                       1>       *-@iW@"     
99                    @          S               O~~I  80goiSao8S8 .>                4osooo8o%S-WooENWtlo
N.. ~   ~ -J    0'                         w-osgrgt                                  o,pSm@w"~ttsst                         r
0'   - 0 W 0' N -                                    -s                   -  -       &                                                    - -"SWN"l r  OsX-D*-"s-M>
.0.0> N      N" 2.              0' N,  O'00. 0'vo>>08o 9Ut.                                0'3N.43   s -J.4      O*V3N
~w   N  sa  "    _              >                                urrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr 
_*  >    .^' -w           0'                                    - _                                                                         Lt
-   g    r   w   w   o   u  S  S _oo_ws_r*s*oo t .. ... . r. ~~~~- -< N125 l
S N      t9*g    N  W        W*b}N O -ON  r    O'   0  r          |                      N    U    ,  0   0   40'N ,_i  _1. .   0
*0'~~~~' .4 .4   .4                -  .o,i~~~~~~~~~~~
r  o  SW  _  _X  ^  0    g    ;0     |  N ON 00     0.0 U      4                                              *O   g - Qe0     8R w0';g 
--                    .    0'                         4 



COLOMBIA
Unit Capital Costs in Project Institutions (a)
(in US$)
Gross Area    Average         Construction                              Total Cost    Total Cost
per Student   Utilization    and Site                                   per Student   per Student
Place        Rate            Development   Furniture   Equipment    place              served
Common Facilities                 2           (c)
Centers                   8.31 m.          77%             542            78           333            953           175
INEM's under Second(b)                     68%                                                        950           254
Education Project
in Colombia (1969 prices)
Rural Comprehensive               2           (d)
Schools                   4.89 m.          56%             277            31           254            562           562
Single shift,
excluding boarding
Rural Comprehensive               2
Schools                   5.08 m.           _              271            49            _             320           320
Boarding
(a) Professional fees and contingencies are not included.
(b) For the purpose of comparison with common facilities centers, the costs of general classrooms have been excluded.
(c)  Calculated on the basis of 70 periods per week equivalent to 100%.
(d) Calculated on the basis of 35 periods per week (single shift) equivalent to 100%, but excluding the use
for community activities (education extension service).
a
0<



COLOMBIA
Contingencv Allowances
(in thousands of US$)
SITE                                                                  PROFESSIONAL        TECHNICAL
DEVELOPMET         BUILDINGS        FURNITURE          EQUIPMENT            SERVICES         ASSISTANCE a/    SUB-TOTAL
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign    TOTAL
1.  Contingencies Percentages
(a)  Unforeseen Factors                                10        10       10        10      10        10       10        10       10        10      10        10       10       10         10
(b)  Price Increases                                   12        16       12        16      12        16       12        16       12        16      12        16       12       16         14
Total (a) and (b)                                 22        26       22        26      22        26       22        26      22        26       22        26       22       26         24
2.  Total Proiect Cost Excluding Contingencies           1,900       900   7,609    3,419   1,300        600   1,300    7,700        680       130      830       690  13,619  13,439    27,058
3.  Contingencies Amounts
(a)  Unforeseen Factors                                190       90      761       342      130       60      130       770       68        13       83       69   1,362   1,344        2,706
(b)  Price Increases                                  228       144      913       547     156        96      156    1.232        82        21     100       110   1,635   2,150        3.785
Total (a) and (b)                                418       234   1,674        889     286       156      286    2,002       150        34     183       179   2,997   3,494        6,491
4.  Total Protect Cost Including Contingencies           2,318    1,134   9,283    4,308   1,586          756   1,586    9,702       830       164   1,013        869   1,661  16,933    33,549
1 Includes project administration



COtLOMBI
Project I plementatiot. Schedule al
|ear                              1973                             1974                             1975                             1976                             1977
Quarter                I      2        3       4       5        6        7      a       9    |10          11     12       13      14      15       16      17      18       19      20
Civil Works
Briefing and Contracting of      x x x   x x x
Consultant Architects
Site Surveys
Preparation of      Phase  I             x x      x  x x x   x x x
Tender Documents  Phase II                                      x x       x    x x x   x x x
Tendering, Bid      Phase  I                                      x x x
Evaluation and    Phase II                                                               x x x
Contract Awarding
Construction        Phase  I                                               x x       x     x x x  x x r    x x x   x x x
Phase II                                                                      x x       x   x x x    x x x    x x x    x x x
Liability Period    Pbeas  I                                                                                        x x      x   x x x   x x x   x x x
Phase II                                                                                                                x x       x   x x x   x x Y   x x x
Furniture and euiument
Preparation of                                            x xx   xxx    x x x
Lists and Tender
Dlocuents
Tendering           Phase  I                                                       x x x
Phase II                                                                               xx x
Manfacturing        Phase  I                                                               x x      x   x x x   x x x
Delivery and      Phase                                                                                           x x      x   x x x   x x x
Installation
Liability Period    Phaae  I
Phase II                                                                                         x x    x       x x   x x x   x x x
Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                       x   x x   x x x
Education                                                                  x x x   x x x  x x x   x x x   x x x   x  x    x x x   x x x
Extension Service
Section Survey and                                       x x       x      x x x    x x x   x x  x  x x x   x x  x   x x x   X X x    x  x x   x x x   x x x
Sector Studies
aI    The project will be implemented in two phases:
Phase 1 - Comprises 12 CFC#s, 7 RCS's, the Technical Teacher Training Program and
the extension of the Rural Development ServicesaCenter;
Phase 2  -   Comprises the remining 12 CFC's and 6 RCS's.



COLOMBIA
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ Thousands)
Disbursements        Accumulated Disbursements                              Disbursements       Accumulated Disbursements
Excluding Interest &    Excluding Interest &            Interest and        Including Interest &       Including Interest &        Undisbursed
* Quarters    Commitment Charges       Commitment Charges          Commitment Charges    Co'mitment Charges          Conmitment Charges             Balance
I            -                         _                            35                      35                          35                    21,165
2            100                        100                         35                     135                         170                    21,030
3            300                       400                          40                     340                         510                    20,690
4            300                        700                          50                    350                         860                    20,340
5          1,800                      2,500                         70                   1,870                       2,730                    101,470
6          1,800                     4,300                          90                   1,890                       4,620                    16,580
7          1,800                     6,100                         130                   1,930                       6,550                    14,650
8          3,300                      9,400                        190                   3,490                      10,040                    11,160
9          3,300                     12,700                        250                   3,550                      13,590                      7,610
10          1,800                     14,500                        120                   1,920                      15,510                     5,690
11          1,800                     16,300                         150                  1,950                      17,460                      3,740
12          1,800                     18,100                        190                   1,990                      19,450                      1,750
13            500                     18,600                        250                     750                      20,200                      1,000
14            500                     19,100                         _                      500                      20,500                        500
15            500                     19,600                                                500                      21,200
~16           -                          -                                                   -                          -
*  An from the date of effectiveriess, aesumed to be around September 30, 1973






a                                                                                                                0~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
COLOMBIA: EDUCATION SECTOR
ORGANIZATION CHART, 1972
OFFICE OF PRESIDENT
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     OF THE REPUBLIC
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
rdln,enrv or iidocotion
2-EEdocatlonl Planmnil
*  in-  -- - --- ---------   ~ - - 5-oBL.BlO1 Of--  --b-- P-----    - --------d
| ._ - _____----- -                                                                 T_____ 3-BuForvtioA-- ---E--d                          _             ___
ii    |  *oar_d                                                                     jOff,oofPoI E, Cjs*
of                                         nalaf,Ooeacd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B.d                                                                                                   l.
U   I             D s irec adtor,ooe|                      one            ll                  Hg Educafol  ftrmotn                                                                                                                                                             3 d     ar    diovead ll NtinlCmio       6T  n  Fr 
|       ISC                S                                                                     Eeltio,Y.  lGeneraI                                                                       iite                  
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RGOA AGNCE IN T DCTZ.SCO
|  '                         MinieTrr on FIance                                   Legal OrffIeo                                                                                     Polic Pelfolarmncpe             nleflotionsnd                                  -k5
| | 9 88 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oNrking Pelrt,e                                                                                       s        E s cotOllleNef,oolcctnotf Uso 
II                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I  _       
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eocnoe                                                                                     Boea                        Fu, ,rdO
|  _  _      The P nclkoJO Et Calamban Culur Gerard    n                 ooba                   oob Nnioe  Edctool            Adulatl        Spclmial S edoocet|Uivrioll    eachBng tafn|Clmla  nttt                  ai
FUndfor oietlfl     Inodtuef          Sooce        pnohlotln,anr                                       Weldacden  fare    dccoflnd       EuidocOIntiof t   RIo an Col rbenIfngttt      fVuhan                Frns  B 
Romnonh nd Sp clolelo                 G,o,elOORA      Dicietno                                         GitieCltn   iPEi   bon d    DtlpnEX    (CE)ileB  TV  ji,OO o   Di7lelon                                           -  prs j |  eIEA
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EINLAECE NTEEUAINSCO
gi                                                                                                                                         Nanlonal Selarn     ruef,onol Salem~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wrl  an-71






COLOMBIA: STRUCTURE OF FORMAL EDUCATION, 1972
SECONDARY INDUSTRIAL
POST SECONDARY INSTITUTES
SECONDARY AGRICULTURAL                                                                               1             Commerce, Education., Forestry, Industry, Social Services, Agriculture
1giutrl col2      3utr IntttsCommerce, Industry, Nursing, Agriculture
SOCIAL SERVICES                                                                                                                      Education, Social Services
F31                                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNIVERSITIES
1        2        3        4    Administration. Arts, Education, Social Sciences
PRIMARY EDUCATION                                 ACADEMIC SECONDARY
1        2        3        4    {        Agriculture, Architecture, Engineering, Lam,
O _M _M _ET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Odontology, Pharmnacy, Science, Theology
Plan Basic.                                      Bachillerato
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING, COMMERCIAL                                                                1         2                                                 Medicine
i~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~
DIVERSIFIED SECONDARY EDUCATIONO
2 H _ 2 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~School Starts at age of 7
PROPOSED EDUCATIONAL REFORM                                                                                                              v         -Restricted entrance to higher schrools
I                              BAIVDCTO                                                                                                                                           - General entrance to higher schools
DIVERSIFIED EDUCATION-
'INEMS, Common  Facilities Centers and Rural Comprehersive Schools
World Bank-7518






COLOMBIA: POPULATION AND SCHOOL ENROLLMENT BY AGE, 1968
(In Thousands)
AGE
20              MALE                                                                                         FEMALE
16
14
A'~~AL
1    6                            a
+ I I g , j ,~~~.X.,a ................,            ..  
+ 
1 24t
                       ~~~~~~~~a
30100lu010                                                                                        0
LjPopulationi
EnrOlmirnnt
"Distortion of normal Pyramid due to previous change of minimum age from 8 to 7 years and related intensive
programs to re-enroll previous drop-outs.                                                                                              World Bank-7519
-3






COLOMBIA: SECONDARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT, 1964-1980
(Thousands of Students)
2000                                                                                                                          2000
33% of age group
1600  -                                                                                                                       1600
1200  -                                                         25% of age group                                           -  1200
000P             15% of
19% of age group                                                                  1   ,-           J   enrollment
800  -                     1        a      o                                                            y     J;C            6
--a.-    V:SI                         800
400                                                                                                                       -  400
ACADEMIC EDUCATION
0                                  1       1  I       I      I       I I    I       I              I                       0
1964   '65    '66    '67    '68    '69    '70    '71    '72    '73    '74    '75    '76    '77    '78    '79    '80
a/ Industrial, Commercial, Agricultural, Social Services and Teacher Training.                                                                          a
b/ INEM's, Common Facilities Centers and Rural Comprehensive Schools
Source: 1964-1968: Ministry of Education; 1969-1980: Mission estimates                                                        World Bank-7520






COLOMBIA: FLOW CHART DIVERSIFIED SECONDARY EDUCATION
NON-FORMAL               LABOR
EDUCATION               FORCE
INSTITUTES OF HIGHER EDUCATION
YEARS
VOCUPATIONAL                                   ME_AL                                 INDUSTRIAL                 00  CE'                     ANIMALLCOMMUNITY                        HOM E            VOCATIONAL
ORIENTATION        HUMANITIES3SCIENCE         MECHANICS  ELECTRICITY  CONSTRUCTIONCCHEMISTRY                                               USBANDR                 DEVELOPMENT  ECONOMICS                                       Middle
Lewel
T,vcbniciar,
SECOND DECISION                                                                                                                                                                                             AND
VOCATIONAL                ACADEMIC                              INDUSTRIAL                               COMMERCIAL               A.RICULTURAL                    SOCIAL SERVICES
ORIENTATION
3 ~~~~~~~~~~IDION THE
Skilled
WoEkenE
FIRST DECISION
JOB
VOCATIONAL-
EXPLORATION   I1NN   EK  A.Sm 
TRAINING               Skilled
4                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EDUCATION
3~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
WRrId B.Rk-7521






COLOMBIA: COMMON FACILITIES CENTERS
OPERATIONAL AND DECISION FLOW CHART
|Central   ||                           Department      ||Municipalt|
Governmentlllll
_ | ~~~~~~~~~consult and jointly|/
decide, with final
authority resting     _
with Central
Governnment
Wst-,a b 11 iis h             sei b                                            adviscs on
Ifi       ~unnanncs,                                                           commu nity
drcs and                        Advisory Committeea                         related
I3sev t  ose,                                                                    activrties
ICOMMONACILITIS
STUDENTERNTS
center teaches practical and
scientific subjects and provides
guidance and counseling on
vocational orientation
S T U D E N T S
participating schools teach
academic subjects and promote
students taking into account
grades given by center
Participating                          Participating                           Participating
School                                 School                                   School
aAdvisory Committee of parents, local public and private agencies and local SENA institutes.
February, 1973                                                               World Bank-7522






'    _   AR;aR{AN  5tS                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 10324
CAREA8    $0AN 4 1A           16? MADCH 197H
7                                               -                                                 > . A i4 } A 6  *RI
COLOMBIA(                                                                                                                                     K
12                                                                         P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-
>~~~~~~~~~~~ S                                                                                o<Mnei    aEWl2N0T \, 9,.. ......................y.ot    z.
d                                                                                                                                            M .ovot HJ E T A 0 - A
A nnr G01ih2TaoO                  A     4     MARTA                                            =2-:                                   a G
%,   1 ~~~~~~~~\    9>  / '                                                     *A   C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOMMO   FCIEIE  CNTR
0 F S AAR   A    C 
4.v
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S n e OS. R-I.N.  0  f           A2\TC   ICAL  TEACHER TRAI N ING POAM
AN            A                                N ,
POPATAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~CULT
O'~~~~ .                              ^O OM                                                                                    IA  '''',   1-4
.       -    .       .      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~ < .+     . . ..  . .. . . .-                                4 -8
QEIBD                                                         ATH                    E       CllATIONL  PNROEC
'~  , .   *          'FlorencoOTE SE RURAL COMPEESV SCHOOLSINRPTTALS
0  ,JIC~~~~A                                                           0     PREVIOUS EDUCATION  PROJECTSY~:~A ~o  4
~~  avon   ~~~~~~  C   A  U  A  E  C  AV                                                CH   AD  
T'     0                                                                     ESLTINN
ctedeQvhC .0            N4II                                                           IiiN   II   2
E   CUAUO~~       ~J  S                                 "'  N""' '~THIR        -NE RNCATIONAL          PRUNDA EIT
Flowc,.                                         0~~~~~~~b NOE  SE  LISTL COMPREESV SCHOOLS I   EOTTBE



