Document of
The World Bank    FIE  tjur
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2825-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NINTH POWER PROJECT
May 23, 1980
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00          Rp 625
Rp 100         = US$o.160
Rp 1 million  = US$1,600
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 metric ton           =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)            =  0.0063 barrels
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)        =  1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere      =  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilovolt-ampere      =  1,000 volt-ampere (VA)
1 megawatt (MW)        =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh) =  1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS        -  National Planning Agency
EHV             -  Extra High Voltage
NM              - Merz and McLellan of U.K.
MONENCO         -  Montreal Engineering Company of Canada
PCR             -  Preece, Cardew and Rider of U.K.
PLN             -  Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara - National
Power Authority
PERTAMINA       -  National Oil Company
REPELITA        -  Five Year Development Plan
SOFRELEC        -  French Engineering and Management Consultants
USAID           -  US Agency for International Development
Wilayah         -  PLN's Operational Region
PLN'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April 1 - March 31
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA'S FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NINTH POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:        Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN), the National
Electricity Authority
Amount:             $253 million equivalent.
Terms:              20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 8.25% p.a.
Onlendinr Terms:   The proceeds of the loan will be made available to PLN on
the same terms as the Bank loan. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Pro-lect
Description:      The project would expand PLN's urgently needed base load
generating capacity in Java. It would provide for:
(a) the installation of the second 400 MW generating set
-(Unit No. 2) at Suralaya with coal handling and ash
disposal facilities for Unit No. 1 and Unit No. 2;
(b) the construction of the 500 kV transmission lines
from Suralaya to Semarang with 500 kV substations at
Suralaya, Jakarta, Bandung and Semarang;
(c) the provision of a simulator at Suralaya for the
training of the operating staff;
(d) the establishment of a Java system control center
at Jakarta; and
(e) the consulting services including training.
No engineering risk is foreseen in the type of work
involved in the project. Delays in land acquisition may
occur. However, appropriate measures have been included
in the project to prevent them. There is a possibility
that coal may not be available from the Bukit Asam by the
expected commission date of the Suralaya station, in
which case it will be necessary to use fuel oil in the
plant and the project has been designed to permit it.
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:|l                                   Local    Foreign    Total
-------- $ million ------
(a)  Suralaya Unit No. 2
Site preparation, piling and civil works         26.5         -       26.5
Steel work and cladding                           2.6         3.0      5.6
Steam generator and ancillary plant               5.4        78.9     84.3
Turbine generator and ancillary plant             3.8        35.6      39.4
Ash and dust plant                                0.8        11.1      11.9
Station electrical and substations
equipment and miscellaneous                    5.7        10.8      16.5
Station coal handling                             2.3        12.7     15.0
Operator training                                 0.8         4.0       4.8
Engineering, construction and
administration                                  4.3         7.7     12.0
Base Cost                                  52.2       163.7    215.9
Physical contingencies                            3.3         7.3      10.6
Price contingencies                              20.5        34.8     55.3
Total Cost                                 76.0       205.8    281.8
(b)  Extra High Voltage (EHV) Lines
Overhead lines                                   97.2       110.3    207.5
Substations                                      24.6       45.1      69.7
Java Control Center                               1.2        11.6     12.8
Engineering, Construction Supervision
and Training                                    1.0        8.5       9.5
Base Cost                                 124.0       175.5    299.5
Physical contingencies                            5.0        12.5     17.5
Price contingencies                             51.0         51.0    102.0
Total Cost                                180.0       239.0    419.0
GRAND TOTAL                               256.0       444.8    700.8
/1  Cost estimates include taxes on civil works and locally purchased
equipment.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Source                                 Foreign cost   Local cost   Total
…------ US$ million ----------
IBRD                                      253.0             -         253.0
ADB                                       139.0 /a          -         139.0 /a
Export credits or Government
funds                                    46.0            -          46.0
C'overnment                                 -             256.0       256.0
694.0 /b
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY      1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Annual       40.0    62.0    74.0    48.0    26.0         3.0
Cumulative  40.0   102.0   176.0   224.0   250.0   253.0
Rate of Return: About 12%.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2694-IND, dated March 20, 1980.
/a  ADB aproved a loan of $83.6 million in November 1979; the balance is
expected to be committed in CY80.
/b  This total excludes $6.8 million provided under Ln 1365-IND for the
consultant services for the EHV component of the project.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A NINTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $253 million to help
finance a Ninth Power Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum. The pro-
ceeds of the loan would be onlent to Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN),
the National Electricity Authority, on the same terms as those of the pro-
posed loan. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1L
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND, dated February 20, 1979)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980) was recently distributed
to the Executive Directors.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago nation of more than
13,000 islands covering a land area in excess of two million sq km. With
an estimated population of 140 million (end of 1979), it is the world's fifth
most populous nation. The population density exceeds 600 persons per sq km in
Java, where 63% of the population live, but averages less than 30 persons per
sq km in the rest of the country. Over 82% of the population lives in rural
areas; and agriculture accounts for about 62% of total employment, though only
slightly over 30% of GDP. GNP per capita is estimated at $360./2
4.        Over the last thirteen years, Indonesia's economic, social and
institutional development has surpassed that of most other heavily-populated,
poor countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertibility of the currency and regained the
confidence of Western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74), a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% p.a. was achieved. During
Repelita II (1974/75 to 1978/79), economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the National
Agricultural Research Project (No. P-2776-IND), circulated under cover
of R80-85 (IDA/R80-60) dated April 17, 1980, and approved by the
Executive Directors on May 6, 1980.
/2 1978 figures. World Bank Atlas, 1979.



- 2 -
increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows. Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to
$4.0 billion LI in 1978, which enabled real Government expenditure to increase
by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP growth rate. Not all
sectors have shared in this growth. In particular, the performance of
nonextractive exports, with some exceptions, such as coffee and palm oil, has
been disappointing; rubber exports, for example, have stagnated since 1971,
and manufactured exports are only now giving any indication of sustained
growth. In addition, there has been little evidence, despite increased
foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil future of the economy has been
assured through a broad-based expansion of the industrial sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the economy
- an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been impressive, views
diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in this increased income.
The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976 indicate that while overall
income disparities almost certainly widened between those two dates, there was
nevertheless a considerable improvement in the consumption of all income
groups, with real consumption expenditure of the bottom 40% of the population
probably increasing at between 3.5% and 5.5% annually. Growth in per capita
income was generally higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in
urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of 2%).
However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level of
open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employment
during this period was absorbed in nonagricultural activities, resulting in a
decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to 62%. Within the
nonagricultural sector, employment increases largely resulted from prolifer-
ating small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors,
where productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        Government-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit
for many of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the BIMAS
and IINMAS rice intensification schemes and the Government public works
(INPRES) programs have demonstrated the Government's capacity to marshal
resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72 and 1976/77 real
expenditures increased at an annual average rate of 37% on Health and Family
Planning, 45% on Education, and 31% on Housing and Water Supply, resulting in
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
/2 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster; at about 9.5% p.a., due to
improvements in the terms of trade.



- 3 -
the rapid development of social infrastructure. For example, Indonesia's
health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were increased to 4,029 by 1977;
between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were constructed and primary
school enrollment was expected to reach 85% in 1979, up from 60% in 1974.
Perhaps the most significant achievement of the First and Second Development
Plans has been the success of the National Family Planning Program,
established in 1970, in reducing the overall population growth rate to below
2%. Fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and Bali, where almost
30% of married women in the reproductive age group are practicing modern
methods of contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty pro-
blem, the lack of food security, and the inadequacy of basic public services
remain overwhelming. In 1976, an estimated 50 million people, over one third
of Indonesia's total population, spent less than $90 a year (at 1976 prices
and exchange rate) and a large proportion of the labor force was seriously
underemployed in both rural and urban areas. Moreover, the continued pre-
valence of numerous debilitating diseases, which often stem directly from
nutritional deficiencies and unsanitary living conditions, results in
extremely low life expectancy at birth and a very high mortality rate.
Life expectancy at birth in Indonesia is only 48 years (most recent estimate)
compared with 60 years in the Philippines and 67 years in Malaysia. For the
same countries, infant mortality rates are respectively 126, 65 and 35 per
thousand. Every year in Indonesia approximately 600,000 infants less than
one year old die. These statistics reflect both low incomes and the under-
lying inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100 million Indonesians
remain without access to safe water or sanitary excreta disposal; there are
only 6 physicians and 6 nurses per 100,000 of the population; and almost 40%
of the adult population are illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the tasks of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. The Government has recognized
this in preparing the Third Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to
1983/84). Three primary goals have been specified: a more equitable
distribution of the benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and national
stability. A high priority must now be given to the industrial sector
since neither agriculture nor services can be expected to absorb the
large projected increases in the labor force (1.4 million p.a. up to the
year 2000) and simultaneously ensure rising real wage rates.
10.       The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by some of the policy actions taken in recent
months. The most dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar on November 15, 1978. Its purpose was to
reverse some of the adverse relative price changes in the economy that had
occurred earlier in the decade and thus to encourage a shift of resources
away from the nontraded goods sector towards labor-intensive import substi-



tution and export industries. In support of the aims of Repelita III and
the devaluation, the Government has also simplified the investment licensing
process and exporting procedures and introduced a system of export certifi-
cates - tax rebates - to encourage exporters. A new corporation tax law
was promulgated in March 1979 providing greater incentives to entrepreneurs,
particularly those in smaller-scale ventures and those using the services
of a public accountant. On the monetary side a start has been made in
making the commercial banking system more responsive to the needs of small-
scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private invest-
ment will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation.
Despite the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private
entrepreneurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those
sectors most conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular
there are two issues that require urgent attention. First, although some
improvements have been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumber-
some administrative procedures and controls associated with the highly
centralized government bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective
protection, which has increased over the last year, may encourage the
misallocation of scarce capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's
potential for manufactured exports is considerable but it is unlikely that
these exports will ever provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed
by other smaller East Asian countries. In the medium term it is more likely
that Indonesia's "engine of growth" will be its own large domestic market.
However, it is important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to
provide appropriate market signals and to encourage those sectors in which
a genuine comparative advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is
probably less significant than the high administrative costs and delays
associated with importing. The important improvements made in exporting
procedures over the last year have demonstrated that rapid changes can be made
in this area. Similar advances on the import side would improve resource
allocation by reducing the proliferation of domestic industries that have
little prospect of ever attaining international competitiveness. In many
countries devaluation has been accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff
structure. Although this has not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent
increases in oil revenues have, by substantially increasing foreign exchange
reserves, provided an additional opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget have improved fundamentally in recent months.  Three factors -
the devaluation, an improvement in the nonoil terms of trade, and the oil
price rise - have been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the
external accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of signi-
ficant supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance
of payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to
the devaluation than to favorable developments in the world prices of



- 5 -
primary commodities..L As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus of
over $700 million in 1978/79. Most important, however, has been the increase
in the export price of crude oil to $32 a barrel in January 1980. This is
expected to generate additional oil and LNG export earnings of $3.1 billion in
1979/80. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these developments. Since
over half of the Government's revenues were denominated in foreign exchange,
an immediate effect of the devaluation was to dramatically increase budgetary
revenues in terms of rupiah. As a result of the oil price increases, budget
revenues from oil and LNG are predicted to rise from $3.7 billion in 1978/79
to $8.9 billion in 1979/80.
13.        These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private industrial
enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price and monetary
stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example, in the mea-
sures taken by the Government to ameliorate the inflationary effects of the
devaluation, which, while successful in keeping prices under control, some-
times tended to counteract the desired effects of the devaluation. Notable
here was the tight control exerted over private sector credit creation which
may have limited investment in those export sectors that the devaluation
was designed to encourage. In addition, the increased foreign exchange
revenue presents potentially difficult problems of monetary management. The
manner in which Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb imports effectively
will be a primary determinant of Indonesia's future growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.        In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to both the increase in export revenues
and the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's
debt-service ratio has fallen from 18% to 16%)./2 In the medium and long
run, however, the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how
quickly Indonesia will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and
because projections of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It
is therefore important that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic
financial resources. The Government's concern with this issue is demonstrated
by its stated intention of eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To
this end, domestic prices of all oil products were increased by an average of
about 40% in April and May 1979 but the budget savings have since been nulli-
fied by increases in international prices. On May 1, 1980, the Government
therefore raised domestic oil prices by a further 50% and thus partially com-
pensated for increases in international prices of oil. There is considerable
scope for improving the nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of
/I The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and
July 1979.
/2 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
total revenues. For example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to
only 3% of GNP, and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP.  Expanding the tax
base, eliminating loopholes, and improving administration, are the obvious
means of securing a larger and more equitable tax burden. The mobilization of
private sector financial resource is hindered at present by the absence of
attractive long-term financial instruments, but the Government's encouragement
of the fledgling Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important
source of domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the princi-
pal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA), to the country. The Bank's 1979 basic economic report on Indonesia
recommended that total ODA reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979, of which
at least 70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. This was
achieved. The Bank's recent economic memorandum on Indonesia (dated February
20, 1980) recommended a level of assistance of $2.1 billion for 1980, which
would represent no increase in real terms over the recommended and actual
amount of ODA for 1979. At the meeting of the IGGI in May 1980, the
indication of probable commitments in 1980 made by bilateral and multilateral
IGGI members amounted to almost this level.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /I
16.       As of March 31, 1980, Indonesia had received 47 IDA credits
totalling $901.8 million, and 46 Bank loans amounting to $2,691.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $62.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977 was
about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of 1978, these
ratios are estimated to have increased to around 8.3% and 3%, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       During Repelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the reha-
bilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities, meeting
the critical shortage of skilled manpower, and technical assistance needed for
pre-investment studies and project execution. As the focus of the Govern-
ment's policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of productive capa-
city in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as well as improve-
ment in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust of our
lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the critical importance
of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food security and
exports, over one third of Bank Group-supported projects have been in this
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the National
Agricultural Research Project (No. P-2776-IND), circulated under cover of
R80-85 (IDA/R80-60) dated April 17, 1980, and approved by the Executive
Directors on May 6, 1980.



- 7 -
sector.  In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually all
other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer production and distribu-
tion, transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural devel-
opment, nutrition, industrial development financing (including small industry
development), power, telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
18.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementing its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document, while
stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs from
previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and poverty
alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the conclusions of the
Basic Economic Report, in turn requires greater attention to employment
generation and improvements in basic public services. While the Government's
agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment oppor-
tunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is prima-
rily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent labor-
intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort the Bank plans
to significantly expand its hitherto modest involvement in this sector. As
part of this initiative, an operation designed to support several industrial
TFCs through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank Indonesia) is at an
advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support export processing
zones and wood processing, and to further expand Bank assistance to small-
scale enterprise are at various stages of identification and preparation. A
comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial sector is being
initiated to provide the necessary understandings and backup for this expanded
operation.
19.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank Group
lending are expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation
will continue to absorb a-. substantial portion of Bank Group agricultural
lending; however, the Bank also plans to take further initiatives to promote
secondary food crops. For example, the recently approved Second Agriculture
Extension and the Second Agriculture Research, and the proposed Second Seeds
projects, will give greater emphasis to these crops. Continued support for
the provision of basic services (population, education, health, nutrition,
urban development and water supply) as well as the traditional sectors (power
and transport) is also anticipated.  Since it is clear that the achievement of
the Government's employment and equity objectives will become increasingly
dependent on the development of appropriate sectoral policy packages and
strategies, institutions, and staff development, it is expected that the focus
of the above operations will gradually broaden to a subsector and sector
approach. The proposed sectoral approach is designed to enable Bank Group
assistance to be responsive to these demands, and to continue its
institution-building efforts in a broader context than has been done hitherto.
20.       Although Indonesia's project implementation performance is
generally in line with the overall average for the Bank, both the Bank and
the Government have become increasingly concerned about the level of dis-
bursements, which has shown a declining trend in the past three years.



- 8 -
While some of this decline is accounted for by a shift in several sectors
towards "newer" type poverty-oriented projects, many of the problems appear
to be related to the Government's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and
payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of
letters of credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe
shortages of both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have
been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues.  Several
special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and
make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint
review procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work
out corrective measures. The first of these reviews was held in early March
1979 and a second, more comprehensive one, in June.  In addition, a
procurement seminar (planned to be the first of a series) was held in
Jakarta in September 1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives,
over the past few months the Government announced several measures to
streamline the more complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board approval at
a later stage in the project cycle. It is still too early to assess the
effect of these steps on project implementation, but improvements are
expected.
21.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA.  Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest anount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds - per capita GNP ($360 in 1978)
is well below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved
balance of payment position, no further IDA lending is anticipated beyond
the end of the current fiscal year. In the past, due to domestic resource
constraints, the Bank has financed local costs, particularly in high
priority projects in the rural sector. However, because of the increased
availability of finance following the recent oil price increases, financing
of local costs will be progressively reduced and will only be limited to
occasions where it will make a significant contribution to the project.
22.       The proposed project, which is consistent with the strategy dis-
cussed above, constitutes the tenth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year, and would bring total lending to date in
FY80 to $754 million. Projects for smallholder coconut development, higher
education, seeds and village development are expected to. be ready for
presentation in the next several months.



-9-
PART III - THE ENERGY AND ELECTRICITY SECTORS
The Energy Sector
23.       Indonesia is richly endowed with primary energy resources including
natural gas, coal, hydropower and geothermal energy. Petroleum reserves
have been exploited for several years and the availability of indigenous
oil caused Indonesia to develop a petroleum-based energy sector. At present
petroleum accounts for about 90% of total energy consumption. The Government
has however commenced developing alternative sources of energy.
24.       The estimated oil reserves are at about 50 billion barrels, but
the proven reserves are between 10-15, a figure that has remained static
since 1970. The Government has, however, introduced important incentives
since January 1978 which have spurred exploration by concession holders.
Production, currently about 1.6 million barrels per day, is expected to
increase to about 1.8 million in five years. Since the domestic consumption
of oil will continue to increase in absolute terms, the exportable surplus
should not be expected to grow, it may even decline. A concerted effort to
manage domestic demand through price increase and to develop other energy
sources such as coal, hydroelectric, natural gas and geothermal steam will
be needed to prevent a decline in the level of oil exports.
25.       The estimated natural gas reserve is 34 trillion cu ft of which
5 trillion cu ft represents gas associated with oil production. Pipelines
have recently been constructed to utilize gas now being flared for
fertilizer and steel factories. The consumption of gas is expected to
increase substantially in the next five years. Export of liquified natural
gas has also commenced following a recent agreement with Japan, and is
expected to increase rapidly. A natural gas reserve and utilization study
will be financed under Cr. 451-IND.
26.       The country has a hydroelectric potential of nearly 31,000 MW of
which only about 2.0% is used. It is proposed to develop over 1,000 MW of
hydroelectric generating capacity in Java in the next seven years. Develop-
ment of Asahan in Sumatra with a capacity of 600 MW is also in progress.
Rapid development of other hydro resources is constrained by the lack of
demand for electricity in islands having large hydroelectric potential (Irian
Jaya, Kalimantan, Sulawesi). However, investigations of potential sites are
being accelerated.
27.        Indonesia has large reserves of coal estimated at over 1.0 billion
tons of bituminous coal, and several billion tons of brown coal and
lignite./I The current production of coal is only 250,000 tons per year.
The Government has decided to increase coal production, the first such project
being the development of the Bukit Asam coal fields in South Sumatra, having
/1 Report of the International Atomic Energy Authority, Vienna, 1976.



- 10 -
recoverable reserves of about 100 million tons, for which the Bank has made
an engineering loan (S-9-IND) for $10 million. It is expected that the mine
will produce about 3.0 million tons of coal annually by 1985, primarily for
power generation at the Suralaya thermal plant in West Java. It is also
expected that the coal production from South Sumatra coal mines can be
increased to about 10.0 million tons per year by the mid-1990s, mainly for
use in future generating plants in Java and Sumatra.
28.       The Government is also exploring possibilities of substituting use
of kerosene with charcoal made of firewood for cooking purposes, particularly
in rural areas. As Indonesia's forestry resources are abundant and as they
represent renewable sources of energy, the country could achieve considerable
savings if appropriate technologies are developed to justify use of firewood
for energy. Potential also exists to construct small power plants which
could burn wood products in remote areas. In 1978 the Bank sent a mission
to Indonesia to help the Government prepare outlines for necessary studies
to collect reliable data and develop appropriate technologies for using
woodfuel for energy and may provide further assistance in these areas.
Energy Policy
29.       The basic policy objectives of the Government in the energy
sector, as broadly outlined in Repelita III are: (a) intensification of
exploration of energy resources and expansion of processing facilities; (b)
gradual shift from a mono-energy economy to that of poly-energy (primarily
based on coal and natural gas); (c) improving efficiency of conversion and
utilization; and (d) expansion of research programs. While the Third Plan
recognizes the role of energy pricing and fiscal policy in regulating and
directing energy consumption as well as in stimulating exploration and
development of energy sources, it does not contain specific policy measures
designed to meet these needs. Furthermore, detailed demand projections and
cost of alternative development strategies are also lacking. A compre-
hensive energy policy is yet to be formulated.
30.       The Government has taken a number of steps designed to address
the shortcomings referred to above. It established in May 1978 a new
Ministry with responsibility for mines and energy. This Ministry has
started playing a coordinating role in energy policy and planning by estab-
lishing a Permanent Committee for Energy Studies and a Technical Committee
on Energy Resources. A cabinet level National Energy Board is also expec-
ted to be set up soon by the Government. Studies have been undertaken by
the Government on electricity and coal pricing. The Bank staff assisted in
the electricity pricing study which is the basis of PLN's new tariff
structure introduced on May 1, 1980. Consultants employed under the
above-mentioned Bank-financed engineering loan (S-9-IND) have recently
completed a report which includes an analysis of the coal prices. The
Government is expected to request that funds from the Seventh Power Project
(Ln 1513-IND) be used to finance a comprehensive energy pricing study as
well as development of a management information system for the Indonesian
power sector (para. 33). When received, this request will be accepted.



- 11 -
Domestic Oil Subsidies
31.       At present one of the critical issues causing concern in the energy
sector is the effect of the budgetary subsidies on domestic oil consumption
which will amount to about $1.3 billion in 1980/81. Because of these
subsidies the use of oil is favored over other fuels in power generation,
and domestic oil consumption is promoted over exports. These subsidies
adversely affect Government's domestic resource mobilization efforts.
Furthermore, the relatively small difference between the price of diesel and
fuel oil biases investments in favor of the diesel generating sets against
central plants capable of burning residual fuel oils which have lower
marketability.
32.       The Bank has, over the last two years or so, urged the Government
to implement its stated policy and to phase out the oil subsidies as quickly
as possible. The Government took major steps in April/May 1979 and in
May 1980 when it raised domestic oil prices by an average of 40% and by a
further 50% respectively. In an attempt to realize further reductions in
subsidies a general understanding was reached during the negotiations with
the Government on the following points:
(a) the Government reconfirmed its policy of ultimately abolishing
subsidies on domestic oil consumption; in so doing the Govern-
ment will follow a selective and gradual approach which is
expected to be based on the consumers' ability to pay;
(b) in order not to introduce yet another subsidy, the price of
coal from the Bukit Asam project will reflect either the
production cost, plus a reasonable rate of return on revalued
net fixed assets in service, or the opportunity cost; and
(c) if the oil subsidies cannot be sufficiently reduced by the
time the Suralaya Unit No. 1 project is in operation, which
is expected to be in 1984, any excess in the equivalent price
of coal over that of fuel oil, will be compensated by the
Government with a view of encouraging use of domestic coal in
energy generation and thereby avoiding further misallocation
of resources.
33.       To further complement the Government's ongoing efforts, a study on
energy pricing is expected to be financed from the proceeds of the Seventh
Power Project (Ln 1513-IND). The Bank will review progress toward phasing
out of domestic oil subsidies during the processing of each new energy
sector operation in the coming years.



- 12 -
The Power Sector
34.       The power sector comprises the Directorate General of Electric
Power of the Ministry of Mines and Energy, PLN (the Government-owned enter-
prise, statutorily responsible for all public sector generation, trans-
mission and distribution in the country), captive plant installations,
and some municipal franchises. PLN came into being in 1961 when three
Dutch-owned electricity utility companies were nationalized, but commenced
effective operations only in 1972, when its new charter gave it legal status
as an autonomous entity with exclusive responsibility for all electricity
supply in the country and adequate foreign financing became available for
its expansion programs. Until 1976, captive plants grew rapidly, but since
then PLN has begun to fulfill its responsibility as the main electricity
supplier and the growth of captive plant declined to only 5% p.a. in FY77
and FY78. PLN's decision to reduce its previously excessive connection
charges has played a role in this decline. Last year, PLN's sales
registered a 22% increase, the most significant annual increase so far. PLN
expects to sustain an annual average growth rate of about 21% through 1986.
Hence the share of captive generation which is presently about 40% in the
total market is expected to decline to about 25% in 1986.
Existing Public Supply Facilities
35.       The total generating capacity available to PLN at the end of
FY79 was about 2,200 MW, 34% of which was in the form of gas turbines, 20%
diesel, 21% hydro and 25% steam. In Java, gas turbines now account for 40%
of the total capacity of 1,550 MW (down from 50% in 1978). This unbalanced
development was due to a crash program of gas turbine capacity expansion in
the mid-1970s when PLN suffered major breakdowns in generating capacity
and gas turbines were seen as the only means of adding new generating
capacity quickly. The commissioning of new steam generating capacity at
Gresik (East Java), Semarang (Central Java), and Muara-Karang (West Java)
should correct this imbalance by adding 1,000 MW of base load capacity by
end-1982. At that time, the PLN system in Java will have 27% of gas turbine
plant and all its high cost small diesel plants would be retired. PLN
operates about 3,800 km of transmission lines, mostly in Java. About 2,000
km of high voltage (70/150 kV) transmission lines are currently under
construction and these will be completed during 1979-82 forming an all Java
Grid. Despite recent progress, per capita electricity consumption in
Indonesia is extremely low at 45 kWh, compared with 570 kWh in Malaysia, 300
kWh in Papua New Guinea, 250 kWh in the Philippines and 250 kWh in Thailand.
The Power Market
36.       Several attempts have been made in recent years to prepare a reli-
able demand forecast as a basis for developing the public power supply in



- 13 -
Indonesia. The most detailed assessment of the underlying demand A in Java
was made during 1974-76 by Preece, Cardew and Rider (PCR) of the United
Kingdom as part of the comprehensive Java System Development Study (financed
under the West Java Thermal Power project, Credit 399-IND). The study con-
tains two sets of projections: a high forecast based on the assumption that
publicly-owned generating capacity will meet the entire underlying demand,
and another, which forecasts a substantially lower rate of growth of public
supply based on the premise that PLN's future sales in the short- and
medium-term, will depend entirely on the rate at which it is capable of
connecting an increasing portion of the existing demand to its supply
system; in the long term sales will reflect more accurately the growth of
power demand based on the overall level of economic development. No
comprehensive demand surveys have been undertaken for the Other Islands.
37.       In 1977, PLN and the Bank accepted PCR's lower forecast as a
guideline for PLN's development in Java. The PCR study also includes an
optimized program of generation and transmission expansion to meet this
demand forecast. PLN's latest sales forecast is about 15% lower than PCR's
low forecast for 1985, but is in line with it by 1990. Accordingly, the
growth rate of PLN's sales is expected to increase at an average annual rate
of about 21% through 1986, while PLN's share of the total market would
increase to about 80% from about 60% which is the current share; after 1986,
the growth rate would gradually decline to about 15% per year.
PLN's Development Program
38.       PLN has prepared a development plan for power in Indonesia for the
period up to 1986/87, which envisages an increase in the installed
generating capacity from about 2,000 MW in 1978 to over 7,300 MW, enabling
energy generation to increase from 4,800 GWh to about 25,000 GWh. It also
provides for the development of associated transmission and distribution
networks. Total investments at late 1978 prices would be about $9.5 billion
with a foreign exchange component of $6.1 billion. The expenditure is
phased over a nine-year period, increasing from $0.6 billion in FY79 to
about $1.5 billion in FY87. The Government has made appropriate provisions
in Repelita III, covering the period up to FY84.
39.       The investment program basically covers the country in two
geographically divided plans, viz. Java Island and territories outside Java.
About 85 million (65%) out of the total population of about 135 million live
in Java, which in 1977/78 accounted for 3,500 GWh, or about 81% of the PLN's
total energy sales of 4,300 GWh. Out of total generating capacity in 1979
of about 2,200 installed by PLN approximately 1,547 MW was in Java (70%).
The territories outside Java cover a large number of islands, the major ones
/1 The demand FLN would have served if its installations had been adequate
and all self-supplied installations had been served by PLN.



- 14 -
being Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi. These three islands, together with
Java, account for over 95% of the country's electricity consumption.
40.       Detailed engineering studies have been carried out to devise the
optimal development strategy for the power system in Java and the least cost
path has been identified. The plan has been formulated to achieve the
following objectives: (a) optimize resource utilization by substituting the
use of oil by coal, hydro and geothermal resources for power generation and
by replacing/reducing the use of fuel-inefficient installations; (b) realize
economies of scale by larger-sized installations; (c) achieve operational
economy by the coordinated utilization of plants through interconnected
operations; and (d) provide acceptable standards of reliability of supply.
The development plan for areas outside Java is not as well founded and
requires further review which PLN is undertaking.   In particular, PLN will
also identify the reasons for the present low utilization of existing plants,
which is more of a problem outside Java, and arrange for the optimum
utilization of all facilities existing and under construction, both on Java
and outside.
The Bank Group's Lending Stategy in the Power Sector
41.       To date, the Bank Group's total lending to the Indonesian power
sector amounts to $636 million for eight projects. The major objectives of
these operations have been to rehabilitate and expand PLN's distribution,
transmission and generation facilities under a balanced system development
and to strengthen PLN's operational and financial capabilities.  PLN has
substantially expanded its facilities and can now provide a more reliable
supply. Although PLN will need to make additional efforts to become a fully
efficient power company, its operational and organizational capabilities have
considerably improved. Future strategy of Bank lending in Indonesia's power
sector, including the proposed project, will give greater emphasis, inter
alia, to the development of a comprehensive energy policy and planning,
economic efficiency in energy pricing, and improvements in planning and
operations of PLN's branches in the provinces and the Other Islands.
42.       Three distribution projects (Credits 165-IND and 334-IND, and Loan
1259-IND) for the rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution facilities
in the greater Jakarta area, and five power generation projects (Credit 399-
IND and Loans 1127-IND, 1365-IND, 1513-INn and 1708-IND) for West Java and
Central Java were undertaken to help PLN increase its capacity. These loans
and credits also provided funds for a variety of consulting services to
improve PLN's organizational and operational efficiency. Compared to its
status in the early 1970s, PLN is now much more efficiently run; it achieved
the financial break-even target in 1977, two years ahead of schedule. It is
also providing a much more reliable supply. Cost overruns resulting from the
1973/74 oil crisis, difficulties in obtaining the required local funds,
delayed land acquisition, and cumbersome contract approval and payment
procedures, caused delays in implementation of some of these projects. The
earlier distribution projects (Credits 165-IND and 334-IND) were completed



- 15 -
more than two years behind schedule. Notwithstanding this delay, a recent
OED audit report (No. 2741, dated November 16, 1979) indicated that these two
projects have achieved their objectives. The major lesson drawn is the need
to address the issues related to land acquisition and shortage of local funds
as vigorously and as early as possible which is done in the case of the
proposed project (paras. 58, 59 and 71).
43.        In support of the Government's policy to diversify energy sources,
the Bank also made a $10 million engineering loan (S-9-IND) in FY78 for the
preparation of the Bukit Asam coal mining and associated transport facilities
project. The optimization reports are presently being reviewed and the Bank
expects to appraise the project in FY81. The Suralaya project (Phase 1
financed under Loan 1708-IND and the proposed project) has been designed to
utilize the coal from Bukit Asam, constituting a major step in energy
diversification in Indonesia. The Bank is also financing part of the costs
of consultancy services to prepare a hydroelectric project (Saguling) of 700
MW capacity in West Java under Credits 399-IND and 451-IND. The detailed
field investigations are being financed with Japanese aid. The Bank Group's
assistance has been requested to finance in FY81 the construction of the
project. The Bank will also assist the Government in carrying out energy
sector related studies, including a study on energy pricing in Indonesia
(para. 33).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.        The Suralaya project is located at the western tip of Java.  It
was identified by the comprehensive Java Development Study, financed through
Credit 399-IND and carried out by Preece, Cardew and Rider (PCR) of the
United Kingdom. The feasibility study for the station, which would have an
ultimate capacity of 3,100 MW, was carried out by Montreal Engineering
Company of Canada (MONENCO). The first stage of the project consists of the
installation of 2x400 MW thermal generating sets (Units No. 1 and No. 2) at
Suralaya in West Java, capable of firing both coal and oil as well as 500 kV
transmission lines to Semarang in Central Java. The construction of the
first stage was phased in two parts in order to reduce the annual financing
commitments. The first phase covering the installation of the first 400 MW
unit is being financed by the Eighth Power Project, Loan 1708-IND, for
$175 million, approved in May 1979.
45.        Merz and McLellan (MM) of the United Kingdom were commissioned to
carry out the planning, detailed engineering and design of the necessary extra
high voltage (EHV) transmission system, with funds provided under Loan
1365-IND. The planning study, completed in August 1979, has concluded that
the EFV transmission voltage should be 500 kV. It has also established that
the West and Central Java power systems need to be interconnected by FY85 by
constructing the EHV lines from Suralaya up to Semarang. It is critical



-16 -
that the EHV lines are commissioned at the same time as the Suralaya Unit
No. 1 (January 1984) to permit full utilization of its power generation.
46.       A Bank mission appraised the project in July 1979.  The nego-
tiations were held in Washington on February 25-29, 1980; the Government
Delegation was led by Mr. Samaun Samadikun, Director General of Power,
Ministry of Mines and Energy. The supplemental data are contained in
Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2694-IND dated March 20, 1980)
is being distributed separately.
Description of the Project
47.       The project comprises:
(a) installation of the second 400 MW generating set (Unit No. 2)
at Suralaya with coal handling and ash disposal facilities for
Unit No. 1 and Unit No. 2;
(b) construction of the 500 kV transmission lines from Suralaya
to Semarang with 500 kV substations at Suralaya, Jakarta, Bandung
and Semarang;
(c) provision of a simulator at Suralaya for the training of the
operating staff;
(d) establishment of a Java system control center at Jakarta; and
(e) consulting services including training.
48.       PLN has a rapidly growing need for trained operating personnel for
thermal power stations. It is proposed under the project to create training
facilities at Surayala by providing a power plant simulator which
will duplicate the control panels and operating characteristics of Suralaya
units by computer modelling. This facility will enable PLN to implement
the necessary training program.
49.       A system control center will be established in Jakarta to monitor,
coordinate and control the operation of generating facilities and the EHV
transmission network in Java to achieve reductions in operating costs and
improve the reliability of supply. The center will be equipped with
communications, mimic displays and online data acquisition systems.
The Beneficiary
50.       The beneficiary would be the National Power Authority (PLN).  PLN's
current charter is the 1972 Government Regulation No. 18, which changed its
status from a department of the Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power



- 17 -
to an autonomous unit. The Directorate-General of the Ministry which then
controlled PLN, was abolished in 1972 and PLN began to play a leading role in
the country's electricity development. PLN has grown in stature and
improved its public image in recent years.
51.       PLN is organized and functions as a modern public utility with a
fair degree of autonomy. The Board is statutorily bound to have a President
Director and at least two other directors. Currently, the Board comprises
the President Director and five others; all are executive directors and each
heads a department in the head office - planning, operations, construction,
finance and administration. In the field, there are 15 regional or Wilayah
offices with a total of about 100 branches. Regions are responsible for minor
construction and the construction department is responsible for all major
project construction. PLN, whose implementation capacity and operational
efficiency have shown marked improvement during recent years, is continually
reviewing its procedures and operations to ensure that this progress is
maintained.
52.       After the recent reorganization of the Government in May 1978,
including the establishment of a Ministry for Mines and Energy, the post of
Director General of Electric Power was revived and the Directorate streng-
thened. PLN's charter is expected to be amended to take cognisance of a new
Act under which private and cooperative agencies are allowed to generate
power in the areas not served by PLN. Since the present electricity
consumption (45 kWh per person per year) is very low in Indonesia, this
change is a welcome step. PLN's status will thus alter from the only agency
in the field of power development in Indonesia to the only public sector
agency, but its present autonomous status will essentially remain unchanged.
Implementation. Engineering and Construction
53.       PLN will be responsible for implementing the project and has
appointed project managers for each of the Suralaya and EHV projects. Its
Director of Planning has overall responsibility for the implementation of
Suralaya and the associated transmission project in the head office. He
will, in particular, coordinate and secure action on financing, progress of
engineering and procurement.
54.       MONENCO will be responsible for engineering, design and construc-
tion supervision of the Suralaya power station. The contract was signed in
October 1978 and the first phase of work - preparation of designs, bidding
documents and assistance in bid evaluating - is now in progress. Bid docu-
ments for the main equipment which were received in September 1979 have been
evaluated and letter of intent for Turbine Generator contract was issued in
January 1980; that for the steam generator contract was issued in April
1980.
55.       The design and construction supervision for the 500 kV lines and
substations will be carried out by MM. Although the contract for the first



- 18 -
phase of the work of feasibility and engineering was signed in February 1978,
MM had commenced work in October 1978; their planning review report was
submitted in August 1979. Bid documents are due to be issued in June 1980.
56.       The engineering services, including those for the simulator and
construction supervision for both units and training, will be provided by
the consultants MONENCO, at a total cost of $18.5 million; which includes
salaries, overhead, fees, international and local travel and subsistence.
The average expatriate man-month cost is $6,500 and the local man-month cost
is $3,400. The average man-month cost for the estimated 3,150 man-months
of services is $5,580. The rates are based on April 1978 prices incorporated
in the ongoing contract and are subject to escalation.
57.       The consulting services of MM including detailed design, aerial
survey, procurement and construction supervision and training is estimated
to cost $6.5 million. MM's average man-month cost for 1,300 man-months of
services is $3,800 (which includes salaries, overhead fees, international
and local travel and subsistence). The average expatriate man-month cost is
$8,400 and the local man-month cost is $1,000. The rates are subject to
escalation.
58.       The implementation program is tight, particularly for the EHV line
construction. It is therefore necessary to avoid the long processing time
experienced in the past for tender evaluation, approval of awards of the
contracts, and issue of letters of credit. Recognizing the high cost of
such delays the Government has recently introduced some streamlining in bud-
get system (DIP) and in the procedures fox contract awards and payment to
contractors, particularly under foreign funded projects. These changes are
expected to achieve acceleration in project implementation (para. 20 above).
59.       Land for the Suralaya power station has already been acquired.
Acquisition of land for the construction of the overhead lines takes a long
time in Indonesia and may delay implementation. To obviate such an
eventuality, assurances have been received from PLN to complete the
acquisition of way leave and land by March 31, 1981 (Section 2.08 of the
draft Project Agreement). A task force under the Minister of Administrative
Reforms has also been set up to streamline and expedite acquisition of
lands for development projects.
Cost Estimates
60.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $700.8 million of
which $444.8 would be in foreign exchange. These cost estimates include
taxes on civil works contracts (10%) and sales taxes on locally purchased
equipment (5%) but exclude customs duties from which PLN is exempt when
external funds are used.
61.       For the Suralaya project physical contingencies are provided at
10% on civil works and 3.5% on equipment. Price contingencies are
calculated (a) for foreign costs at 10% for 1979, 9% for 1980, 8% for 1981
and at 7% p.a. thereafter, and (b) for local costs at 25% in 1979, 15% in
1980 and 1981 and 10% p.a. thereafter. For the EHV system the estimate



- 19 -
provides 7.5% for physical contingencies but price contingencies are the
same as those for the Suralaya project.
Financing Plan
62.       The project is expected to be financed as follows:
Foreign Exchange   Local cost    Total
… --------  US$ million---------------
Suralaya Unit No. 2
IBRD                                    169.0              -          169.0
Export credits or Govt. funds            37.0              76.0       113.0
Subtotal                             206.0             76.0        282.0
EHV (500 kV Tranmission and
Control Center)
IBRD                                     84.0              -           84.0
ADB                                     139.0 /a            -          139.0 /a
Export credits or Govt. funds             9.0              -             9.0
Government contribution                   -              180.0        180.0
Subtotal                             232.0            180.0        426.0
GRAND TOTAL                        438.0            256.0        694.0 /b
/a  ADB approved a loan of $83.6 million in November 1979; the balance
is expected to be committed in CY80.
/b This total excludes $6.8 million provided under Ln 1365-IND for the
consultant services for the EHV component of the project.
63.       The proceeds of the Bank Loan would finance the foreign exchange
cost of turbine generator, steam generator, coal handling plant, associated
auxiliary equipment, 500 kV transmission lines from Bandung to Semarang,
control center, consulting services and training simulator. The proceeds of
the proposed loan will be made available to PLN by the Government under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank, on terms equivalent to
those of the Bank's loan. The Government will finance interest and
commitment charges during the grace period and bear the foreign exchange
risk. The signing of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition for
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
64.       Procurement of equipment to be financed under the loan would be
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. Indonesian equipment manufacturers are unlikely to be



- 20 -
able to participate, but if they tender for some items, a 15% margin of
preference on the c.i.f. bid price, or the prevailing duties, if lower, will
be applicable for purposes of bid evaluation. Procurement of equipment for
the transmission lines and substations financed by ADB will follow ADB's
guidelines.  All local costs including civil works will be financed by the
Government in accordance with their procedures.
65.       The Bank loan will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
goods, 95% of the ex-factory cost for locally manufactured
goods and 65% of the total expenditures for imported goods
procured locally; and
(b) consultants' services and training - 100% of foreign
expenditures.
No disbursements will be made for expenditures incurred prior to loan
signing.
Financial Aspects of PLN
66.       Past Performance.  PLN's performance was closely linked with the
Financial Recovery Plan included in the West Java Thermal Power Project,
financed under Credit 399-IND, approved in 1973. The plan's objective was
to cover operating costs from revenues in FY79; the objective was achieved
in FY77, two years ahead of schedule.
Contribution to Investment and Tariffs
67.       Under Loan 1513-IND it was agreed that PLN would make gradually
increasing contributions to its investment program from its internal cash
generation. The indicative targets, over a three-year period (the test
year and the two preceding years), for these contributions agreed under Loan
1708-IND were as follows:
Three-year                        Percentages
periods                        for consecutive
ending in                      three-year periods
FY80 and 81                            12%
FY82 and 83                            18%
FY84 and 85                            25%
A definitive target of 30% was agreed for FY86 and after.
68.       Achievement of the above indicative targets is clearly contingent
upon PLN's ability to improve its operational efficiency (reduction of
system losses and operational expenditures) and to increase its revenues.



- 21 -
This could result, inter alia, from an aggressive connection policy and
adjustments in its tariffs. In 1979, PLN's contribution to its investments
amounted to about 29%. Current financial forecasts, based on PLN's recent
and expected performance in all these areas, indicate that under the proposed
loan PLN should be able to achieve the following targets:
Three-year                    Percentages for conse-
periods ending in               cutive three-year periods
FY80 through 82                          12%
FY83 through 84                          20%
FY85                                     25%
The definitive target for FY86 and after, would be 30% (Section 4.04 of the
draft Project Agreement). These forecasts are based on a 38% tariff increase
in the level of PLN's basic tariffs which became effective on May 1, 1980./l
In addition a revised tariff structure reflecting as closely as possible the
long-run marginal cost of supply was introduced on the same date. Further-
more the Decree which introduced these measures also permitted PLN to further
adjust its tariffs, through,a surcharge, by Rp 6.4 per kWh to compensate for
the 50% increase in domestic oil prices which was also announced on May 1,
1980. As a result, the average level of PLN's present tariffs represents an
increase of about 61% over that which had existed prior to May 1, 1980.
69.       The Government has indicated to the Bank about a year ago following
the negotiations of the Eight Power Project (Ln. 1708-IND) that PLN's tariffs
would, no later than March 31, 1980, be increased by 58%. However, PLN's
financial position for FY79 improved considerably. This improvement was due
to a changed phasing of PLN's expansion program and lower operating expenses
than forecast. These two factors, particularly less than anticipated
operation expenditures enabled PLN to generate larger internal funds than
originally estimated. As a result, in FY79, PLN covered about 29% of its
investment expenditures (compared to 6% originally forecast) from
self-generated funds. About 20% of this contribution was due to lower
operating expenses and 3% to the reduction in capital expenditures resulting
from rephasing of investments. In light of these developments, the
Government has again reviewed the need for adjustment in PLN's tariffs and
recently concluded that a 38% tariff increase would be sufficient for PLN to
meet the previously agreed internal cash contribution targets (para. 68).
The concern of the Government about inflation was a major factor in the
timing of the action on PLN's tariff increase.
/1  The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) assumed that the 38% tariff increase
and the introduction of the revised tariff structure would take place
on April 1, 1980. Since the effect of a month delay on the financial
ratios and the related tables is minimal, no updating was made in the
SAR.



- 22 -
70.       While improvement in PLN's overall financial and operational
performance has been considerable over the last 8 years, there is still
scope for the company to improve its operational efficiency. For example,
system losses averaged about 23% for the whole of Indonesia in FY79, down
from 24% in FY78, which varied from about 18% for Jakarta to about 30% in
some areas. These high system losses are due to distribution systems that
require rehabilitation, inadequate metering and billing systems and theft.
PLN's management is aware of all these problems and is actively addressing
them. A targeted loss reduction program is in operation and steps have been
taken to reduce theft, resulting in reduced system losses in FY79. PLN has
also instituted training programs for regional staff which will enable them
to prepare and supervise plans to improve the operational efficiency of
their regions. Under these plans the regions will forecast GWh sales and
revenues, operating costs and the rehabilitation investments necessary to
improve the earning power of the assets used for operations. These plans
are expected to culminate by FY82 in fixing performance targets for each
region. The two-year preparation period is required because of the need for
training, the posting of the necessary staff, and the computer hardware and
software that may be required.
71.       Delays have occurred in the past in the allocation of Government
funds to PLN because of the complicated budget (DIP) system. In such a
situation PLN had to cover any shortage from internal funds to maintain the
progress of project construction. Delays have also occured in granting
approval for tariff increases which were needed to finance its development
program. A substantial portion of PLN's distribution system expansion is
financed from its internally generated funds and the delays in budget
appropriation and in granting tariff increases created a situation in which
PLN had to reduce the rate of distribution expansion, which in turn
adversely affected the balance of PLN's development program, i.e. an
inadequate distribution network. Although the recent changes made by the
Government in the DIP system (para. 20) and the increase in PLN's tariffs
(para. 68) are expected to alleviate these problems to ensure timely supply
of funds, Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement provides that the
Government will furnish PLN as and when required sufficient funds to meet
its expenditures as annually agreed with the Bank. To avoid shortages of
funds due to poor collection the Government has also given assurance that no
later than March 31, 1982, amounts owed to PLN by Government agencies shall
not exceed the billing of PLN to such agencies for the previous two months
(Section 3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Revaluation of Assets
72.       Agreement was reached during negotiations of Loan 1708-IND that
PLN shall revalue its net fixed assets annually, including consumers'
contributions, on the basis of the Gross Domestic Investment Deflator as
calculated by the Bureau of Statistics, on the understanding that the
revaluations need not be incorporated in PLN's books. This provision will
also apply to the proposed loan.



- 23 -
73.       Debt Coverage Tests.  The existing covenants on debt coverage tests
which stipulate a debt/equity ratio of 60:40 and a debt service coverage of
1.3 will continue to apply to avoid excessive medium-term borrowing and to
keep overall borrowing at reasonable levels (Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
74.       The project is part of an expansion program to provide urgently
needed base load generating capacity in Java. It is the next step in the
least-cost sequence of generation expansion, established by the Java System
Development Study; this sequence remains unchanged when tested for sensitivity
within the wide limits of the latest sales forecasts and the consultants'
high load forecast. The results were tested for discount rates up to 15%.
75.       The internal economic rate of return (IERR) calculated by a discount
rate equalizing the economic costs and benefits attributable to the project
is about 12%, which is satisfactory. The expected cost of coal delivered at
Suralaya ($40.0/ton) was used in the cost stream and incremental revenues
were based on the expected electricity price of Rp 38.0 to measure benefits.
If the coal price is higher by 10%, the IERR would reduce to about 11.6%.
Risks
76.       There are no risks of an engineering nature as there are no
inherent uncertainties in this type of work. The risk of delays in project
implementation may arise mainly due to possible delays in land acquisition
for construction of the EHV lines (para. 59). However assurances have been
received from PLN to avoid such delays and acquire lands for the
transmission line by March 31, 1981 (Section 2.08 of the draft Project
Agreement). If coal from Bukit Asam is not available for the power plant by
January 1, 1984, it will be necessary to temporarily use fuel oil in the
plant. Such an eventuality would reduce the economic benefit from the
plant. However, the project is justified on meeting the power demand, even
with oil burning.
Ecology
77.       Environmental considerations have been carefully considered by
MONENCO and PLN in choosing the Suralaya site for the first power station in
Java to utilize coal. The site is located in a remote corner of the West
Java Coast, the nearest settled area being a small town (Merak), some 10 km
away. The station location and design features to deal with stack emission
and ash disposal, reduce the environmental impact to a minimum. There will be
no detrimental effect on the local ecological system.
78.       The construction of the 500 kV lines and substations would also be
carried out with due consideration for the ecological factors. The route will
be selected to cause minimum dislocation to existing developments, and



- 24 -
substation sites have been located outside populated areas, particularly
those near Jakarta and Bandung. Internationally accepted safety practices
will be used in the design and construction of the lines. No serious
ecological problems are expected in the transmission line construction.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Perusahaan Umum
Listrik Negara (PLN), and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
80.       In addition to the special features of the Loan and Project
Agreements which are referred to in Section III of Annex III, additional
condition of effectiveness of the Loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement) includes that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on
behalf of the Borrower and PLN.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 23, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
_   -WIOIIUA - SOCIAL 1301CAS5 DSA  5SU
UIDf37SEA                     UE     GlQU?S (AOJUSTED A AUG&S
LAND0 AZAU  ('3USN90-)SO  KM-)                                                - 408T VICET  ShX
I .D A          2027.1                                                    SA-K         SANE     N1  16IGUE
AGRICULTUA       292.9                                 mmT  RECGET      GEOGRAPC    3cou            ICO0 
1960  /     1970 lb LTr TE a          RGION       CROUP C0     GROUP 1e
GNP PE  CAPT1A (5m)                     0.O        140.0     360.0            528.9      209.6       467.5
ENUcr COWISTIWON PER CWTA
(.L0GRC   0f COAL EqEVALmT)         129.0       120.0      215.0           371.1        53.9       262.1
POPMATIO  AMD  9ITAL STATISTICS
?OULAIWo, xm-Tm  OloNS)             94.7       117.6      140.0
014  PO?UAXIO  (?UJT  o0 ID=) 14.6               17.1      8l.4             27.4        16.Z        24.6
POPULATIO PBOJWTIONS
POMAULZN IN YEAR, 2000 r IXzoo OIS)                     207.0
STATIONARY POPMAIOU MILLIONS)                            357.0
TA  STATIONAT ?0PLAXI0  IS RZAGrU                       2145
POIUAETIO  DENSm
PIZ SQ. 11.                        47.0        58.0       66.0           154.8        49.4        45.3
PU  Sq. I. AGUCULTUAL LANO    337.0           419.0      456.0           566.7       252.0       149.0
POPULAIOW AGE STEUCTURE (lUCRE?)
0-14 Ys.                           40.8        U.O       41.0             41.3        43.1        45.2
15-64 ns.                           54.1        53.5      56.0             54.9       53.2         51.9
65 %S. AND AhOy!                    3.1         2.5       3.0              3.3         3.0         2.d
POPVLATION GCOWTH LATE (PUCT)
rOTAL                               2.1         2.2        2.0             2.4         2.4         2.7
A.41                                 ..         3.7        3.3             4.3         4.6         4.3
CRUDE  B1TV RATE (PU TROOSAjD)       47.0        43.0       37.0            30.2        42.4        39.4
CRMDE DEALT  RAT! (PI  TROUSAXD)     23.0        IS.0      16.0             6.3        15.9        ll. 7
GROSS RLPUOOUCION RATE                2.          3.2        2.4             2.1         2.9         2.7
I1AXMY ?LANNING
ACCEPTORS. &NNUAL (T20USAS)          ..       151.1    2213.0                .
USES5 (PERCENT 0P XA=UED  iOE)    ..            0.2       19.0            34.1        12.2        13.2
FOOD SND Vn;TION
2E1D W1 FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAITA (1969-71-LOo)            96.5       100.0      105.0           106.2       98.2         99.6
R CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CAWIOIZS (PECTNT 01
REqUIEmITS)                      89.0        91.0      96.0            104.1       93.3         94.7
.ROTZ2IS (GCAS P. DAr)             43.0        43.0      43.8             57.4       52.1         54.3
O0 *CL AM13AL AM.D PULSE         15.0/1      14.0       16.6            16.9       13.6         17.4
CHILD (AMES 1-4)  x nIA.17T RATE     31.0        22.0       19.0             4.8       S.5         11.4
REALl!
t.;F  EXPECTANCY AT 311TH (YEARS)    S1.0        46.0       48.0            61.1       49.3         j4.7
1NFANT AORTAL.Y RATE (?ER
?EUSA2D)                               ..       126.0         ..            46.6       05.4         68.1
ACCESS 5O SAP2 WATE  (PECENT OF
POPut-TION)
TOS.A                               . .        3.0       12.0            2I. 9       26. 3       34.4
CBRAN                                *-        10.0       35.0            46.2       5a.5         57.9
lURAL                                *-         1.0       6.0             12.8       15.d 8.
ACCESS - E=ZEA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
01 POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         12.0       15.0              .4       16.0        S0.d
iAN                                   -        50.0      60.0             65.0       65.1         71.3
.L                                   ..         4.0       5.0             14.         3.5         27. 
CPUL5TION ?ER P5-TS1CLu           41000.0L    :6830.0   ;6430.J          3790.5    11396.-       6799.4
?OPULAION ?FM 1RILSING ?mSON           ..      3010.3   4670.0            1.107.4    .552.4       1522.1
POPULATION ?ER 8OSPITAL 3ED
-O-L                             1370.0      1670.0    1.560.) J13.3               !417.1        , 6.5
CR.                                  ..      11.20.3       *-             03.o      .97.23      '7.7
RUAL                                 ..      1890.0         ..          111.0.:    2445.9       104..
OMDISSIONS ?El 'OS7PIL 3D              ..          ..       22..            23.39       4.8         27.5
AOUS .NG
A4ERAGE SIZE 3r iOUSEEO0
CSAI                                .. 5.d                               ..    . '      3 .
'R2                                ..9          5.3        ..               .. 3        9          S. i
AVER.A4E U3t 3ERF ?PSONS PUR 300M
RtTAL                                ..          . 5        .
TCZS  O OLCTICT:C' '?ERC11'iT
3F 'WELL-NG;'
-70-TA.-                             ..          ,          ..              ..       _. 5          i
39AN2                               ..          ..         ..              ..       ; 7.3         5.
tL          ..          .          ..              ..         ..          3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.5



- 26 -
AN= I
r:~Mnl. - SOC: 6 IMTCA=    DATAPage  2  of  5  pages
- SOCS1T II:T IA 5IAII
SAKI        s&Mz      *w.  31c=
1960 A      1970 lb K5?z4  /lb        £z0ON /c      ooUP /6    ao0
A.0.US=D Z2IX0tL1S 882208
.Sfl~AA!:    508L                  67 .0        71.0      82.0             97 .9      o3.3 .3.7
fALI                  79.0        30.0        6. 0           96 .7       79.1        t7.3
1^ma                 55.0         70.3       77.0            97.4        44.4        73.8
5tCIDhY:   TO=L                     6.0         15.0      30.0             4.2        16.7         U.4
10.0        20.0       U5.0           46.7         =..1        33.0
7T?ILZ                3.0         11.3       13.0            40.9        10.2        15.5
VOC=NAI  UK        : (23  50U103L!)  20.0         22.0      U.0              12.5        5.6          9.4
PU1EL-T!.M   20
mnuAy                              39.0        29.0       30.0             32.5       41.0         34.1
5C0UDAAY                           14.0         13.0      13.3             25.        21.7         23.4
AJ=E L22RAcTl 21  C         ) '       9.0         57.0      62.0             84.1       31.2         54.0
20S0gno                             1.0         2.0        3.2              t.1       2LS           9.3
in.azo xIAZnus PE Musahm
?POVLAX=OI                          7.0           ..      37.0             6.4        27.72        76.9
71 qIcZZVU FM m0088w
?0.80K                               ..         0.7        2.0            20.4         L.          13.5
!WS1API  CU OAfL.  'AL
=%ZRZSVT) C==..hX20 P`U
,HOSAXD ?CP U0K                        ..           ..      16.0             24.2        5.S        1L83
CL7D4A AJNAL A=V           U CPE ?a     ..          ..       0.9              3.6        1.1     Z     .5
L             ' FetB70U2 (t0D4S )    34027.0  2209.3   51000.0
FtO6A11 CPMLC=)                    27.9        31.0       30.5             36.7       24.6        29.2
Y725Cm2Z  (9U0P    )               74.8        66.3       60.1            54.6         9.4       6SL7
Z=DOrmy (PM=)                       8.46         .7       12.0            16.3        10.0        11.9
?AJLTtC'-A=0K UZZ  7011
,OTAL                                36.7        35.3       34.6            40.7        36.9        37. i
'ALS,                                54.2        4S9.5      45.6             $9.9       52.-.        45.
7 1ALZ                               20.0         21.6      20               31.0       ,S.0         20..
COIMMIC OU40INCT 36223                  1.2          1.3       1.1              1.1        1.2          1.4
aicce stsrnuf'ou
?uc-rr or p.v1 
8.1X5? 5          or  30CSE          ..         3.77        ..             1S.3         ..         15.2
3car 20 ?          or O0 SOILDS    ..           52.7b       .. h6.                      ..         482
LOWEST :9 ?MCZ=F Or M      L3        ..         6.S/b        .              6.2                    6.3
LoWEsT0 oP=  OF ROnBSYSL35                      L  l7.37    ..            16.S          ..         16.3
?OMUT -,1=  0o20s
='MA7=D .aso   0V! 3CMZ
tamKL (aSs MU CAPS1   )
IliAd                                ..           ..     22.1.0          193.1        99.2       Z4L1.
3?AL                                                     130.0            121.l       73.9       136.6
LEVEL (tSS ?= CAPV.A)
2-s "                                                    145.0           136.S        91.9       179.7
XURAL                                ..           ..      gJ.3             96.3       34.3        1m.7
59.3            32.3         4.          ;
llRLIUL                               .                   6..3            52.5        53. 9       3 7. 5
..at available
Ta The adjusted group average*s for each indicator are population_eighsed geoeetric  ea&ns, excluding the extrem
values of che indicacor and che mset populated country ti nach group. Covorage of countries among che
indicators depends on availability of data nd is not uniform.
hb    Unless otherwise noted, dats for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  for 1970, becveea 1969 and 1971;
and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1980.  Poverty levels are estimated 1930 levels at 1980 prices.
/c    East Asia & Pacific; /d Low rncome ($280 or less per capita 1976); /s Lower Mliddle Income ($281-550 por capita.
1976);  /f 1961-63;  ,  1962   /h  Income reciptencs.
Xoat 2ecenc Istinate of c:n per capita La for 1978.  For population estiateC Is for and-1979.
Decber 31, 1979



- 27 -                                                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 Pag.
awnrn or SOf 3AL0 BICA?0U
Note.:  Aitactag  toe data ar  draac  fre  souce  gs-trll  judged the  - mit taatr.tile  sat ralladt, It sa-ldL abet haat   that thsy                 act be ittaL=--
aitlocldY coWaabit abo-    of tbc lck of staderdlccd d.fioitioa   Wc cecapt  used by tiff eret o-tries La oc11t.isahas  da " .Tah.lb  aaaere,  -tsts
ocefol to desribe order  of assitutd, ido.t.ct  trans, act oArstriac certeLt mjor diffsteo  bsteas  canris
The  4~9994AfoAfl!a5aforeac  ditictor ar   oplziaessts                etric astocoals  L. rotr   tan. of th. edicetica   as tba e.ta eae
oaiyit --Ab'rop       o toD lak" of data,po  ar sof o11 indicator  for Capitl doopi1o  Oil.   tertas sat of idicators of Macsc, to daze: set ntrete
DisposaL, I h-.osing           , Ina. crbto    t  Pevartyp for otbarotrcty lercps arc Ppowl.thc-ooitd gactrto  --   citheet sbasa  of the etar   tale.  at
tbea  popalatd catrty.  SI-nce  hs o.r.r.a. of o-sare  s-as the indicator  deets    aeiitlt  of datasa  is eat -tIft.-  otaiat  -t be .                             ie
oc -Mlatto.  reras. of  -r  oadioaco  to enthee.  Thbe.,aresar             etxotuasaee±ticofects caesoac-ri LUs   -alst F of S
etictoa   IOt I'ea-M ac  -utry end retersto  cr00..
Totl.    tt. cuoo   reeopiso              had erea o_    cnos                             o-ro   sp. _totd.,   hat   e   cn.)c5b   cet   ipsla
Alei-ct,ra., - cot reovt estaist of sc..icoasad  ar-  cast tswatl                       e  cts       f tsir rilespstiee potoaLaio.  -oreta 1isposa            asSetsA.
.per-cctl.y for crops, pastures, ircet sd oithe  carts-  or to                       cbo ocIletais  sa  diW     sl it  or sitht treas-, of                osmm,er'eta
i.fLIo,                                                                              adcss-ay  by  ethes    lts-  or ohs se  of pit wiet-s  ad  -ela
t.h."i.  by .-e  -oterio   cathd -  W.1id 9-  Ai   (19176-78                             ootLlatlsZ-.                .    i.,    b-iy  rIo.-Ii.                       S
1960, 1970, and 1l78 data.                                                            peoltoso   fsss  Pars-  - PapaLatti  dLifltd by tctr of pratirine  -lt
niaccsuwP :o  PER CAPITA - Atonal coo-        is  foieca6csg                           c   els     -aoa  csre, practical usseca    cd assateNt  -oe
aTcoal codlioie  peri-t,  atcal. d5  o  hydro-, coolsa  sat ta-0aoaia                                  tsia   at-ttl   ra    a ua-                  Pe.latiot(oa,u a
abes-l electoccocy) La kilogna  of ocal euuirat.t per capo:tot                          se196r0   lote  byehi  cpete                 tro  hopital bats ae Labsi
1970, tod 1976 data.                                                                    pblio sad priests g reerl set spciallod hsapital setd reesilitatos ceeacre-
Hospitals arc sstcliafNets  pes-sclp  staffed by at 1eat  -c   a-iia
POPULtATION ADD VITTAL IIATIS?ICS                                                         Eaatsaasp,roodd   prt..ospal.t  custoial car  -   oa  jacLcte. mralI
focl PooJ.eio  Md-Yar aolion)      Is  f J010' I; 19200, 1970. act            hopia -,,ner, itabad  salab sat Neicad. oscotot ps cly starffs
977 dt.by *pfylaioi   (baa by a -a ..Ia   sacitote, acr, ctafe, sa.) soot offor
irisI4ooeioa(prdect of total) - dooto of orbs to total pop.leico.                        o-petiost aoctatiooW  ad prerids a lists.  reeC  of asoteal tsc1ltiss.
iiffareet coftitl-c  of orsa arc-  osy effect  -0-aebility of  aa                   Adalacios  ocr cossital Red - Ttota  aLor of atlaoca  to or diaccargos fre
sang o-trie; 1960, 1970, too 1975 data.                                               tospitals dl,tdd by the etner of bet..
Peolac  00rer  90  - to-root ocoLt-ic   -Weetsicos arc bassd                     ______
195  oalcoaatc  by q      d act as d ath.cer ertlity so  fertility          Arrs   0co   hoshl    r-    e  hafot      oa    wht.se  asrl
rac.foooicprteta   for sarLtaly rats. cop ieof close                       0 toatbold*oosta  o  a g             kaMo1isiitaluhsar    ritaaasa
let-o osotirg lie eaoctaoy a  barb iareais  cith otastry.                                                           W bi   i    sI.0  ors   rlda  - ora    c   etla    sTa
per oapito iccorn  lerol, sd tonIc life topetsoy  aaadco   t                        cctae... W     for statiatical    pss
77.5 Year.  The pareator  for fr-tility rate als  cartcres level                  Accss  utc   fcea-         Tor ot- tta   orb-  sat ered.l - A-cras  canr
asuigdcI -eo  fertility ttcordl.g to Loo   Isee  sad past                     o   eea   e  oti   nubsednslccpscacaosldclo
fticioslo  peforsMe  tac  ocoey ia athec aigacd oce of tiass                  r..speotireip.  Ic-Illosa eaclat  n--peest stcces  a  ucopaed oro
.tie o tta.ai    oortoty too fertility treeta for pr-jeotoc                    A,c,,, to Oleetriotrusros  o           eLs   -  ,toa   urha. ad rurl   Ci
Sat"Ir...ro   ooltotlotatio ..ry Ppaplaico  there is to crow                          tital, orba, act rura  desloos  respottahosl.
e  theb  cirth  .t. ic .equl tothe oeatt raeb, ac  aL.o the a..
cI_rtot-  reenoc  ocostet. This -s ehisee.  oa.iy sftsr fertility rates         ObLATION
ce lice-     i-  retah cc   lorel of unit cet oeprotdatic raat, sas               ttptEd trolet Rtatoo
cart geceratica of 'oa  recoesiae, e-oi.m    tti-tar  po-                           Priaro soboo~.l-ttl. sac sad fesae    Ioc  total"            k leatd fCd.-" teri-
of-I      ooticI   l ya   00   t  b   aeo he.l.atfrtiay                               utoo-ags4 poPpiticts  -erLly includes cbiltdc   acd 6-11 year  bto
rac  to repisceevt lero.                                                             ed..tsd for differeet lsogcta. of priary tOavatioc; :cr ctiotrteath
eacttiooar  tooaltioc _. rearhed - The year itea etatocay popo.Latice               .icisra  eturatico crolist os   ccs  100 Pereet  -tet  cm  Paci
h-oetorce.eacro.                                                                    to  bcio  or urec ab   ffi to Lcdtooo  s..
foltitn fresito tsocere scori-  toal,cod at  feal  - Cowatt  to et. c:  eccor
2crcc  ad               P 40yarc .t_co  Per eqore Ulster (100 htistars  o f             eoaieeirstlatfurYerof opprooc  Pr's -.car7 t,
total area                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~pr-odes gsserai  -toasico, Ir teacher trailto   itosrotio.   orI poplIs
Porto    . ccoloa   ao-   tep -          -  thoce fr .rtolur.land                       -olyp of L2 to 17 ycar  of eteL  ccra-aecoore  an co-srllc
Pcpootlo  AntOtrotureceroct)    hZllureo 10-14 Yeas.   corking-ge              Eaicoal scole   orcto  toasy      Oraoatooio:a   olc
15-4 reae)torere       ed  A  'Ye-  tooce) us p-eetages of mid-ycar                    teohoi-al,  cutl, or otter~ ror-ctborteosptetlyora
pouaioc; 1960  1970, ir   977 ia..cpcrtast  of oscoatry  ca.tiiutias-
PcrI=ti  olo-thO Auto   eoea    total~,t    - ooccoth  -atc  of total sod-               -tLI-teaoter ratio - oase         d  r.oday-totl sto,tao ot1tit,aL.
year  oroliloca  or 190-c.)  196070, ec 197-77.                             prtry  an  -cod     -ylool   -idiOo  by eaerIf Oahers toh tecrr--
poi.soioo-  fo  190c.196-7,c  1 -79.                                                  Adolt literar  rats cocroet) -  oacrac  altla    stIr         - est ad orte)-
ft-toe  irth Rato  -r tacsacd) - docoaltire birtoo Per tcooaao   of ci-                    tpeeaeofotal autol  op Nac                 et 15 year  cn  Irer.
Yearcoa 9otc         Q 100  1970. to  L077 data.
It-ode leath  ate  per ttosat   A.-LIai-dato pe  thcroatd  1ti-ya                   COfSUM5rTOCs
cpeeif h  fertility rate;  -oouiy fle-y-a  orreecedtg  -c 1960,                     'iatio Rtoci-reoc  th-os  ooltic    Ald types of re- -r  for reado
.7,tt1975.                                                                       croadtoat  to cee..ral pohlio pe  ao_ s   o   pcpiaio; ea-Itt  oni.icesd
rceptore ~f  -hirt-cotro  dcte   IrecPIecf .tat...aI f.lyc                            effect; data for racet pes-s asp  -to ce o-pT-aceetr --   oore
pisociog proorsi.                                                                     obitied  -iet gn.
RealyPlocoo    leeeoreetotwrst  co) - Pratage of wooed                  ItRciesoc  tcan  poi-Ii-oTrcier    o   raouit   eea
to al oarted  oaco  0 cae cu  oroP.                                           tO-c  er   bertttahtf7  octa cs0effect.
fth  -                       CoiaNiUcrr  iolaiR,ertccntrrltt:N                                                                               tateceaec belao
Cade ofIof29110   -bo   fprcpt                                                          deveas  prn-tp nto  arriopesored  ee.7            f  occioa   ob    a
fe dcc os  o .lacoar year ossic.  Iid  ..cre   rer   0                           Ctnae  An-ulI Atateetan    D.-ertao     oer Oear - he.od oI  the co-or of  -.tboi
e--ecacc  oacd of tugsr) -cIth oe vtt  ate1 cotlctret,-ddr-Yteyr  Louoocasocst   roei   oo-   .t o:t
I.,. coffee  nd tea ore eccicded)   lggreoate pcdotico  of car  coWcy                unt.d
Per oscita coicol of ca  r ro  erteot of  rcieet)-Coaptde fC-                    lAdr O Pot
vero eM    occt  ftafooppicaaahccociryer capita                                   Tota  lar forte  thtcaIuoo)                                                 - ooaolyctc   ecc.ooid,taea
Per laY.  dAtailebl  sopplirs o-srii  dootopoatoo,ot   as                            otsatuailyc  bod  oc_iudig toscvtooecta, -c. efciaiooo
epri00othage  ic otock.  ltea.pe  ec od   isal fsed, osedc,                  r0criu  outot  are  o   oporale..
itot'ive  icd       dofo   rceoo   c  IIsce  coddtritutiot. ceaire-                       rce)-eeeaor reucpotteof t-.a  lbrfot 
It,a -er  c tostd. tpfad daed.I    .. cyco.oicltreifr ol                               ttr    rcec     abrfre              7crice, foreetry. htioctg  a
couny  ut oclotcocideoo   -cl- .o eP.arauecr6oiti                             tiothoog as penetago of total  acrfot.-
toW r -dooorttoaofppltc,cdaloic1   eac  for                                       .d_tusto   certeat)-larfot.cico,ottuLt,sfcorgto
-ate ~toaurdto.oerioycer toO gas                                                                                          M aavrc     tac o.i tlabo"r foIte.
eccta. tu-cl  of oravrdret  per day)  P- et-o   --tet .1 yer                     Par_IPtioaioact(etet   totl  -. lensa  feAle - foartocipaticao
cepita te   rply of oo   peeOa. liet copply of toe  i  detioct ad                   aoiiyaesaeoeoto   .ttl's.tOfesrlbrfct   tpr
olco.  Hqiecc 7c   I  ocutriec  -cblioehd tip usOt  prodt  for a                    -ectoge- cf total, rs.e cot feele pooat           f aLlg,rapcotively;
croos tiocace  r 60int  of total  -roei  Per dsy to  20 gre   of              1960  1970, ac  1975 cato.  T,hose ars 11  ipatrisac   rates reflectig
-oial ad price r           Itoc f  h-ir  10 gras   cooh  snisai prtoic              ege-seituoueote I          pohlacict,  eat Ieg t.- treed.  A fec oaectost
These ottodrtla arc bersa   bs f 75 croe  oftoaprt-i  acrefnoctiocal Icace
254rs  of toirnlcrai  astotrage for the verd,  nPoaste tip FAO                  froato  leoecaa    ttic  R- ai  of poltocudar15 so d t  ac4 ove  to
ow ic  YirO world fod Surey.                                                      telbrfre:  g   ro   f1.4faa
0eroooca  rotoo  rocy fre oocl td rbe    Prtei  cpply of toed
terroed froc ariolo to-d le  10 prss r    Dap.N!OC 0d7hkTId
(-l ae  l-4:foala  da'te  P   terh-oa) -rcitdeaths per Othosc-d                  2erecac  of Private  cc    ot0  ottob set Ab) -.ciret by  itobos
actcrop I- years, to  tle    orhdi  to4roop; fo  -ocdee-                         5 pertent, obthest2   ertt 20 per         20..ert,  ,  n  peeo 00P-rc
year of ege per Crooreod lice tortos.  raIffrniaele.
tirceac ~  ~       ~       -'  97 tolt   ae    eoeorotao,     oa    ra,udca    eoaa t    citae  evreL'oc   Iyr   Idi  er cct)-ob                       ua
hooter of ovoele  total, ortiat, ard       Ifalfcttood.ccaieaoa...        ta-lrenle  oety dooty leeiOoe-hrdo  arrsqeperI capt.
cc .cftar  not) 00 ertectagI e ofttotio reocep_ t       tilabcots .1 IVOastdPoltoohl.Aatt 'cct  lcc   srioroeo. Ircs
ac, tio   re.,    ubi   cuti  o   ttdoelooc  tttretL rrl-  eUcao   aplaotat  atrra)co  r -P                                                            lt  pe'
010 eters  nc a oot. oy tercooeedo,ao  s .le roa-secablort
areo of that, dtos. lo  o    area  ors tatil  rco  sold Italy-C.pe   .it
E-t t" R~~~~~~~~uus 17



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
USS Min    %          1960-65           1465-70          1971-78
GNP at Market Prices            47,461  100.0          1.9                4.9               7.8
Gross Domestic Investment    10,022   21.1             3.3               11.5              14.7
Gross National Saving            9,233   19.5          5.8                5.1             12-0
Current Account Balance         -1,155   -2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           10,278   21.7          1.5                7.8              8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS            9,144   19.3          0.2               10.9             17.9
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
US$ M M       ln     %Ml       %            US$      %
Agriculture                     11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industry                        12,672   33.9        4.7     8.3         2,696   407.3
Services                        13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -          3.0      5.3
Total/Average               37.339  100.0       56.4   100.0            662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp Billion)                             % of GDP
1977/78   1978/79                          1977    1978
Current Receipts                  3,535      4,266                         18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure               2,149      2.744                         11-5    12.6
Current Surplus                   1,386      1,522                          7.4      7.0
Capital Expenditures              2,157      2,556                         11.5    11.7
External Assistance (net)           738        987                          3.9      4.5
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    695     987   1,452   1,978   2,631   3,131  3,8n9
Bank Credit to public Sector             129     153      209      990   1,051       883  1,442
Bank Credit to Private Sector           524      932   1,186   1,376   1,737   2,017  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as x of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 - 100)         106     139      196      234      280      311    336
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      6.4    31.1    41.0    19.4    19.7    11.0    8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -14.0    18.6    36.6   373.7         6.2   -16.0   63.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector          65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    16.1   29.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a Exchange rate of Rp 415 - USS1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 - nTSS1, thereafter.
/b Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
January 3n, 1980



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                       1976    1977    1978        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976-78)          US$ Mln       X
1.  Exports:                            6,573   7,952   7,989
(a)  Oil and LNG (net)           3,710   4,445   4,010        Oil and LNG (net)              4,055      54.1
(b)  Nonoil                      2,863   3,507   3,979        Timber                           986      13.1
2.  Imports (in.l net NFS)             -6,657  -7,777  -8,129        Rubber                           653       8.7
(a)  Imports                    -6,167  -7,241  -7,543        Coffee                           488       6.5
(b)  NFS (net)                    -490    -536       586      Palm Oil                         190       2.5
3.  Resource balance                      -84      175    -140       Tin                              253       3.4
4.  Factor services                      -718    -865  -1,015        Manufactures                     261       3.5
(a)  Interest public debt /a    -314    -436    -499          All others                       619       8.2
(b)  Other (net)                  -404    -429    -516
5.  Balance on current account           -802    -690  -1,155             Total                     7.505    100.0
6.  Direct foreign investment             287      285     271
7.  Capital grants                        100      100     100
8.  Public M & LT loan /a                                            EXTERNAL DEBT - December 31, 1978
(a)  Disbursement                2,334   1,955   1,627                                         Disbursed  Undisbursed  Total
(b)  Amortiz.tion                 -457    -825    -969                                         -------- US$ million --------
(c)  Net disbursements           1,897   1,130       658
9.  Other capital (net)                  -481    -174      834       Total External Public Debt         12,983      5,794    18,777
10. Change in reserves
(- increase)                    -1,001    -651    -708
11.  Net official reserves               1,557   2,208   2,916        DEBT SERVICE RATIO                         1976    1977    1978
Reserves in months of imports + NFS        2.8      3.4      4.3      Public debt service as 1 of exports    11.7    15.9    18.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                      IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1980) (US$ million)
' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD    ..IDA
August 1971 through November 14, 1978
Outstanding & Disbursed                       817.30    524.00
US$1.00  -  Rp 415                                                Undisbursed                                  1,873.70    376.70
Rp 1,000 -  US$2.41                                               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                2,691.00    900.70
Since November 15. 1978
US$1.00 - Rp 625
Rp 1,000 - US$1.60
/a Based on IBRD external debt data.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
May 6, 1980



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page i of 25 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Two Loans and twenty-four Credits fully disbursed          98.00  321.60         -
259     1971   Tea                                                 15.00        0.40
300     1972   Population                                          13.20        1.94
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.00        1.85
355     1973   Beef Cattle Development                              3.60        0.02
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                     13.50        4.25
399     1973   West Java Thermal Power                             46.00        3.04
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        5.38
405     1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.00        0.47
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        9.20
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        1.34
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00        7.70
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        1.41
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       19.07
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                40.00       20.85
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       29.32
869     1979   Polytechnic                                         49.00       48.42
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00        9.97
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00       67.00
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       12.00
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Development /a
Project                                            45.00       45.00
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation /a                             45.00       45.00
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II /a                42.00       42.00
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                  25.00                 1.78
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                 4.60
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.00                 0.08
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00                40.65
1127     1975   Fourth Power                               41.00                 1.94
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                    68.00                 0.83
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                15.26
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 7.22
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00                86.26
/a Not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 25 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1237    1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                27.83
1250    1976   Second Shipping                            54.00                36.04
1254    1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.00                 7.34
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                41.90
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                11.02
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00                17.16
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                    19.07
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                13.02
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00                19.12
1363    1977   Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)             15.00                 6.35
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00                60.29
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00                11.79
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00                16.12
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00                55.66
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00                26.39
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                    10.65
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50                21.14
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00                12.26
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00                54.94
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00               103.70
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transport Engineering                   10.00                 2.92
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00               134.57
1579    1988   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00                27.25
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                    64.70
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00                74.01
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00                54.00
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00                49.74
(Thirteenth Irrigation)
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00                41.50
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00               128.72
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00                50.00
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00                90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00               175.00
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00                36.00
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III                        99.00               98.88
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation /a                  116.00               116.00
/a Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 25 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total                                         2,691.00  900.70   2,250.40
of which has been repaid                       39.96    0.41
Total now outstanding                         2,651.04  899.29
Amount sold                           28.24                0.00
of which has been repaid           -17.57      10.67
Total now held by Bank and IDA /              2,640.37  900.70
Total undisbursed                             1,873.70  376.70   2,250.40
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 25 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ---- (US$ million) ---
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia-        Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. MIonsanto Pan           Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.3         -        0.3
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.4       0.1        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -       0.9
Total gross commitments                             51.7      10.5      62.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 33.9       2.1      36.0
Total held by IFC                                   17.8       8.4      26.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)          -         -



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 25 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Pane No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                                6-8
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811 and 995)
Other Agriculture Production (259, 319, 355, 358, 400, 405, 480,              8-10
1318, 1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751            10-12
and 984)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267 and 996)                             12
Rural Development (946)                                                       12
ARro-Business and Credit (785 and 827)                                          13
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692)                                13-15
Energy (399, 1127, 1259, 1365, 1513 and 1708)                                  16-17
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (1089 and 1254)                                         17
Industrial Estates (428)                                                      18
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                           18
Coal Mining (S-9)                                                             19
Population and Nutrition
Population (300 and 1472)                                                     19
Nutrition (1373)                                                              20
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                       20-21
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (1139)                                               21
Highways (1236 and 1696)                                                    21-22
Marine Transport (1250)                                                       22
Ports (1337)                                                                  23
Tourism (479)                                                                   23
Urban Development (1040, 1336 and 1653)                                        23-24
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                   24-25
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 25 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 M1illion Credit of
October 3. 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of contracts
have caused a delay of about two years in the project schedule. Based on
bid prices for the first contracts and revised quantity estimates on the
basis of detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about
140% over the appraisal estimate and the project is currently expected to be
completed by December 1982. The Closing Date of this credit is expected to
be extended.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20. 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about three years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
a delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of another year due to delayed land acquisition, delayed payments
to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. Because of
double digit inflation and the Rupiah devaluation the total project cost is
currently estimated at $227 million, which is $24 million more than the last
mission estimate and about 38% above the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
are currently about 50% of the appraisal estimate, but are expected to
significantly increase in FY80/81. All major contracts have been awarded and
sufficient funds are allocated for the programmed construction this year.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981.
Construction is underway in the tTorth Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 36 -
ANN4EX II
Page 7 of 25 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Initial delays cannot be expected to be made up during construction
and the final completibn date is estimated to be March 1983, a delay of 21
months. Further delays would occur if right-of-way lands are not initiated
in advance of the construction program. Works are proposed to be executed
under small to medium contracts using manual labor instead of equipment.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31. 1984.
Delay in implementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred in awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target. Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, liay
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FY80/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16. 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
A smooth start to project implementation is being made. Contracts
for consulting services were awarded before or only slightly beyond the dead-
line except for those for the Jatiluhur Tertiary Development component, which
is slightly behind schedule. Completion of the Cisedane Drainage Component
will be about six months late due to the delay in completing tender documents
and in acquiring rights-of-way for the first civil works contract. The
initial delays in Jatiluhur are expected to be made up during construction and
final completion may still be as projected during appraisal. Similar delays
in Cisedane are unlikely to be recovered and a six-month delay in final
completion is anticipated.  The total project cost is expected to be within
the original estimate.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7. 1979; Effective Date: October 16. 1979;
Closing Date: March 31. 1984.
This loan became effective last October and the initial progress is
satisfactory. Consultants have been engaged for the construction supervision
and studies provided under the project. The construction of river training
works and flood protection levees under six on-going contracts is progressing
well and on schedule. Two major works, the construction of the Rambatan
Channel and Bangkir cohtrol structure are scheduled for bid opening in June
1980. The major difficulty foreseen at this stage is the land acquisition for
the rights-of-way. The implementing agency is aware of this problem and is
trying to resolve it. Disbursements are presently below appraisal estimates.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
This credit has not yet been declared effective.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: $15 Million Credit of June 24. 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1980.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs increased project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate, but the
economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over 20%. The closing
date has been extended to August 31, 1980, in order to make payment for goods
ordered but not delivered by the previous closing date.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: $11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
The planting program under the project has been completed and the
construction of processing facilities should be completed by the middle of
1981. Production, profitability and costs of PNP X continue to be satisfac-
tory although oil palm output is down as a result of processing problems at
Bekri Mill. PNP X has expanded its operations further under Loan 1499-IND



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 25 pages
(NES I), and its work on planting rubber for smallholders under NES I and
under Loan 1318-IND (Transmigration I) is progressing well. Nevertheless,
there are some temporary difficulties, but overall project performance remains
very satisfactory.
Credit No. 355  Beef Cattle Development:  $3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The PT Bina 4ulya Ternak Corporation (PTBMT) is now managed by
Indonesian staff with satisfactory technical capability. Development of ranch
infrastructure and fencing has been completed, but pastures on both Sulawesi
ranches remain understocked. Fertility levels of cattle are low and as yet no
satisfactory solution has been found to improve the situation. A three-year
pasture and grazing research program with Australian bilateral assistance
started in early 1979 and it is expected that, inter alia, the cause for low
fertility may also be determined in 1980 or 1981. Purchases of domestic stock
in 1979 enabled PTBMT to partially utilize its surplus grazing capacity and
improve its finances. The budget for 1980 has been approved and sufficient
funds are available to meet investment and operating expenditures in 1980 and
up to project completion, about mid-1980. The recording system in PTBMT is
satisfactory; there are no specific disbursement problems.
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400  Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the objective has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. Production will not be adversely affected since
replanting yields are higher. Costs are now estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% since replanting is more expensive and costs have
risen sharply because of inflation. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates for the same reasons. The project has made a significant impact
on the private sector of the Indonesian tea industry. The project training
program is especially noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000
smallholders through practical village training schemes.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 25 pages
Credit No. 405  Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Factory rehabilitation (PTP XV and XXI/XXII) completed, but
performance still below appraisal forecast.  PTP XXI/XXII is taking vigorous
steps to improve perfo-rmance and re-orient field staff to the Government
decision that all sugarcane be grown by farmers, none on land rented by
factories - a traumatic and dislocating change. PTP XV is finding it more
difficult to adapt. The three modern project factories at Pesantren,
Gempolkrep and Sragi have minor problems on completion of the 1979 season.
Cane areas have expanded about as forecast, but average yields are much
lower due to switch to farmers' cane and PTP lack of experience in farm
extension work (being remedied). PTP XXI/XXII made a substantial profit in
1979 ($11.3 M); PTP XV made a substantial loss ($3.6 M), though its lowest
loss in five years. Capital reconstruction for PTP XV is being actively
considered. Uneven supply and poor quality of cane, through improving,
still inhibit results. Cost reduction is being achieved, but desirable
factory amalgamation is resisted because it would reduce employment. The
Indonesian Sugar Experiment Station (Pasuruan) has been reorganized to meet
the need for more intensive research on new varieties, especially rainfed
and ratooning, and on intercropping and upland soil fertility; required
additional funds are included in the National Agricultural Research Project.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by the Government's skipjack tuna
enterprise and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have
been ordered. The quality of fishpond lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia
suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; results are patchy and
arrears excessive in some areas. Coverage is much less than appraisal fore-
cast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but infla-
tion and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project performance has been slower than expected. An
additional 400 families have been settled at Baturaja, bringing the total
to 2,200 compared to a target of 3,100.  About 1,800 ha is being cropped
at Baturaja. Project management has been strengthened by recruitment of
some new staff. Infrastructure work at villages 4 to 8 is slow due to



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 25 pages
shortage of of funds and for the same reason no new contracts have been
signed. No progress has been recorded on the seed farm which is still 70-
130 ha short of target and pastures have still not been satisfactorily
developed. Detailed plans for villages 9, 10 and 11 are now being prepared
by the implementing agency.
Loan NIo. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
There have been some delays in the implementation of the project
owing to the necessity to resurvey and map a significant portion of the
project areas. However, rapid progress has recently been achieved and it
should be possible to maintain the original implementation schedule. Bids
for land clearing and construction of roads have been evaluated and the con-
tract is expected to be awarded shortly.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project's overall physical progress has been generally good
but unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. Housing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way which
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
The planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is behind. The appointment of new project manager and
support staff from local authorities have helped speed up implementation.
The management of PTP IV, the local authorities and the Directorate General
of Estates have agreed to the Bank's recommendation that preparations for
the construction of settlers' houses should-start immediately and that the
upgrading and staffing of the Sungai Tiga Extension and training Center in
Jambi should be implemented.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is off to a good start. Reasonable progress has been
achieved in the estate development components, and preparations being made
to start implementation of the smallholder components this year should
result in the planting of about 5,000 ha of smallholder rubber and the
settlement of the first 600 participating settlers by March 1981.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 25 pages
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development Proiect: $45 Million Credit
of April 3. 1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
This credit has not yet been declared effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
There has been overall progress in all spheres of activities.
Under the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) civil work
have been started at Sungei Putih, Sembawa (rubber), Pangragajian, Margahayu,
Baruajak (highland vegetables) and Sukamandi (Phase I, rice and palawija
crops). The research programs are now better defined and more purposeful
and several new varieties are expected to be released shortly. All of the
ten Agricultural Information Centers were inaugurated on September 24, 1979.
Although disbursements are still lagging behind appraisal estimates, they
are expected to pick up shortly.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4. 1976; Effective Date: September 21. 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created.
Appointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project
directorate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional
Assisant Directors. Civil works have been resumed and the training program
has started. Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing
difficulties and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with support-
ing documentation for equipment and furniture.  The new procedure for pre-
financing outlined by the Finance Ministry last year is expected to help
solve the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension Proiect: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1989; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The credit has not yet been declared effective.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31. 1987



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 25 pages
This credit became effective in December 1979 and the start of
implementation has been smooth. A Project Coordinating Unit has been
established and staffed within BAPPEDA (the provincial development planning
agency) and the working papers have been translated into Bahasa Indonesia
for distribution to the participating agencies. A Project Steering Committee
has also been set up by the Governor of Yogyakarta.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785  Small Enterprise Development:  $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, which provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMIP, became
effective August 17, 1978. Despite start-up difficulties, BI has now
established and staffed all project management units. The three field units
in Central Java, East Java, and West Sumatra are developing new lending
approaches and assisting handling banks in project promotion and preparation.
The training and studies components of the project are progressing satis-
factorily.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3. 1978: Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1. 1973;
Effective Date: August 29. 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Delivery of books takes
about one month to a year depending on the location of schools. The Project



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 25 pages
Implementing Unit advises that the remaining 50 million textbooks (grades 5
and 6) will have been printed by September 1980 and delivered before the
Closing Date. Project costs have increased due to the increased scope of
the project and inflation since 1973 which has affected the cost of paper,
printing and transportation.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. The engineering technicians
(polytechnic) component is making reasonable progress. Staff appointments
follow the appraisal schedule. The first civil works contract for grading
work of the Technician Education Development Center (TEDC) and the Bandung
polytechnic (PT) have been awarded. Contractors for the remaining civil
works have been prequalified. Bids for the construction of the TEDC and
the Bandung PT were opened in March and evaluation in April, about six months
behind schedule. Equipment for the TEDC and Bandung PT is being tendered
and is scheduled to be awarded in September 1980, about three months behind
schedule. The PT expert services program is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The three subprojects under the Ministry of Education (MOE), Minis-
try of Manpower (MOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN) suffered
(a) initial delays due to slow site acquisition and late contracting agencies;
and (b) additional delays due to slow awarding of physical facilities because
of weak project management, late release of budget funds and late ministerial
approvals. Overall delays amount to about two years and will require post-
ponement of the Closing Date. The MOE component's objectives are to build,
equip and commission four Technical Training Centers (TTCs) for technical
training at secondary level and two Faculties of Technology in Teacher Train-
ing Colleges (FgTs). Civil works are completed and 75% of equipment contrac-
ted, but due to the necessity to retender some equipment, the project is about
two years behind appraisal schedule. The MOM component's objectives are to
build, equip and commission 17 new vocational training centers and to provide
26 mobile training units. About 50% of civil works are completed and 45%
of equipment contracted. Technical assistance is on schedule. The LAN compo-
nent's objectives are to provide buildings, furniture, equipment and technical
assistance for the principal civil service training Institute in Indonesia.
Civil works are 20% complete, two years behind schedule, procurement of
furniture and equipment follows the civil works schedule.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7. 1977: Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project which finances the development of primary and secondary
teacher training has made satisfactory progress with the implementation of
the educational aspects. The National Team of 40 educators has completed the
in-country training of 110 educators and initiated training of 7,000 staff of
primary teacher training colleges (SPGs) and secondary teacher training
colleges (IPIPs). The implementation of physical aspects is delayed by 6-12
months because of problems with site acquisition, late release of budget
funds, and late approvals of recommended awards. Therefore, only about 15%
of civil works have been awarded and 4% completed. Corresponding percentages
for equipment are 28 and 16. Despite the delays, the Project Implementing
Unit still expects to complete the project on schedule.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977: Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
ClosinR Date:  June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces by financing civil works
to renovate two and establish four provincial centers, instructional equipment
and vehicles, in-service training, materials development, a basic learning
fund, and related technical assistance. The project is making reasonable
progress. Civil works for all six centers have been awarded, two are comple-
ted and in use, three are about 90% completed and one, the Center of Semarang
has just been awarded. Furniture has been tendered for the four new centers
and about 55% of equipment has been awarded. Compared to appraisal estimates,
the physical facilities are delayed about 12 months. Progress in the educa-
tional aspects is that of 64 fellowships, 54 have been awarded and 44 conclu-
ded. Under the expert services program, two experts have completed services,
nine are in post, and four are still to be recruited. Staff appointment and
material development are on schedule.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979: Effective Date: July 31, 1979: Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the Government's long-
term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural
manpower. It finances the renovation, furaishing and equipping, expansion
and relocatioa of 26 existing agricultural development schools and 16 exist-
ing agricultural in-service training centers; and the construction and
furnishing and equipping of 5 agricultural development schools and 7 agricul-
tural in-service training centers. It also provides technical assistance
for the improvement of curricula, education planning and evaluation. The
Project Implementation Unit is now fully staffed and implementation is gener-
ally on schedule. No major implementation problems have yet been encountered.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 25 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 399  West Java Thermal Power:  $46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973: Effective Date: August 28, 1973: Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet higher than estimated
equipment costs. Thereafter implementation proceeded smoothly. Both the 100
MW generating units are now in commercial operation. Arrangements are being
made to release retention payments. Disbursements are expected to be com-
pleted before the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  $41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975: Closing Date:
June 30. 1980
The third 100 MW generating set at Muara Karang Thermal Power
Station was put into commercial operation in November 1980. The set is
operating satisfactorily. Disbursements are expected to be completed before
the target closing date (mid-1980) as forecast.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
All equipment required for the project has been ordered in three
lots within the cost estimate. By end 1980 about 90% of the disbursement
would be complete. However, construction work lags behind schedule. While
there has been good progress on construction of 20 kV cables, installation
of the associated substations is well behind schedule. This is due to
problems of acquisition of land which the Government has been requested to
assist in solving.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction of the fourth and fifth generating sets (200 MW each)
has been delayed mainly due to a misalignment of the center line of the
turbogenerator and power house foundations. There has been an inordinate
delay by the consulting engineer in finding an appropriate solution to the
problems. The fourth generating set is expected to be in commercial opera-
tion around May 1981, about 9 months later than the contract date, but only
3 months later than forecast at appraisal. Engineering of the Semarang 3
(Seventh Power) project and of the Java Interconnected system is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3. 1978;
Effective Date:  June 30. 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983
All contracts, except for general construction and steel work have
been awarded at highly competitive costs. A reduction in foreign costs of
about $30.0 million is presently expected. Delays in award of contracts
for civil works caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract
awards by the Government have resulted in a three-month delay in the tight
construction program. It will delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating
set which is now expected in August 1982.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1. 1979;
Effective Date: November 5. 1979; Closing Date:
December 31L 1984
Project implementation is on schedule so far, towards a target of
commissioning of the unit in January 1984, which was the appraisal estimate.
Bids for turbine generator and auxiliary equipment were evaluated and a
letter of intent for the contract was issued in January 1980 as scheduled.
Bids for steam generator and auxiliary equipment are under evaluation.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089   Second Fertilizer Expansion:  $115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975: Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the
project operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to
about 92% in 1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  $70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 25 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14. 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31., 1980
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. The project
is projected to remain profitable.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28. 1977;
.Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977: Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1. 1979;
Effective Date: September 25. 1979: Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This loan became effective last September and progress is satis-
factory.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 25 pages
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
$10 Million Loan of May 19, 1978: Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project consists of identifying and engineering much of an
optimum mining and transportation system to mine about 3.0 million tons per
year and ship about 2.5 million tons per year of coal to a power station which
is under construction at Suralaya in West Java. The project has experienced
some initial delays but is now progressing satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300  Population:  $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972: Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
continues to show satisfactory results. Since 1972/73 the program targets
have been fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. The implementation of
the project is in its final stages. The construction of all buildings has
been completed and furniture and equipment procured, offices in Jakarta and
six provinces have been occupied and all provincial and subprovincial training
centers and nine nurse/midwife training schools are in operation. Most of the
population education activities have been completed and the remainder are
expected to be completed this year. The production of films and procurement
of a computer financed out of savings under this project will also be com-
pleted this year. The only delay expected will be in the training of secre-
taries and program managers, but this problem is expected to be resolved
shortly.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6. 1977;
Effective Date: August 4. 1977: Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed, except
the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTCO which is currently being
constructed. Since the Bank is financing only four floors and common services
for the eight-storey NFPTC and office building, it has proposed that it reim-
burse the Government 65% of the total cost and is awaiting their response with
regard to the remaining 35%. All furniture has been procured and all vehicles
will be delivered shortly. There continues to be delay in implementation of
the pilot community incentive scheme, due to protracted discussions between
the Government and Bank on the form of the study. With the completion of the
ten Provincial Training Centers, it has become necessary for the National



- 49 -
ANNEX 1l
Page 20 of 25 pages
Family Planning Coordinating Board to recruit trainers for these centers,
although difficulties are being experienced in finding qualified candidates.
Delays have occurred in the implementation of the population education
component due to changes in curricula; delays in the release of funds have
hampered the training of trainers for vocational schools. However, all the
population education activites are expected to be completed on schedule by
early 1981.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development-:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory. Construction of the
Nutrition Academy has been completed and equipped and it is in full use. Its
student enrollment has increased from 100 to 160. The Nutrition Intervention
Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components, as well as the
fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The Food Technology
Development Center civil works construction is virtually complete and services
are being installed, and Wings I, II and staff housing of the Center for
Research and Develpment in Nutrition have been constructed and services are
being installed; Wing III proceeds according to plan. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451  Fourth Technical Assistance:  $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress under the project is satisfactory. The Closing Date has
been postponed by one year.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
This credit became effective in September 1979 and progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Itillion Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31. 1981
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, and printing equipment required to produce maps is



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 25 pages
installed. Resource evaluation activities, including the compilation of data
for Southern Sumatra and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of
coconut lands to be replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in
the new complex. Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior
operatives, has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian
parallel project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes
to have installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained
specialized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  $68 Million Loan of July 10,
1975; Effective Date: August 28. 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port deposits is com-
pleted and the sixth depot, which was approved in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be
used for longer distances for exports. Cost have also been increased
because of delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear
customs on interisland voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved.
These matters were taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15. 1976;
Effective Date: August 13. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of
1,200 km are under way and a last retendered contract of 45 km has started.
Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for contracts started in
1976; delays were also encountered in awards of contracts scheduled for 1977.
The 1978 devaluation also contributed to a slower apparent rate of
disbursement as cost adjustments to Rupiah construction contracts had to be,
and still are, being made. While remedial measures taken in 1978/79 (and
others planned) have improved the rate of physical progress and disbursements,



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 22 of 25 pages
project completion is still forecast at 15-18 months beyond the loan's present
Closing Date. Project costs in US$ are likely to be within appraisal
estimates but Rupiah costs are up significantly due to the devaluation.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Delays have been encountered in awarding contracts for about
500 km of road works which were tendered in mid-1979, somewhat behind the
implementation schedule. The 300 km balance of road works was scheduled
for tendering in May 1980, nearly 10 months behind the schedule. Preparation
of development programs for eight provincial public works departments (DPUPs)
has also fallen behind, and other project components closely linked to, or
forming integral parts of, the DPUP programs, such as procurement of road
maintenance equipment and construction of major support works, are now about
one year behind schedule. Delays have occurred also in appointing consul-
tants, but these delays are less serious.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Although the delay in the appointment of a number of consultants had
caused a slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and dis-
bursements, progress has now been made in making effective consultant
contracts for sea transport planning (ISTS Team); for improving maritime
training (IMCO project); and for extending the contract for financial and
technical advisers to P.T. PANN, the project entity. Progress has also been
made by the new management of PANN and of the state shipping company, PELNI,
in their new roles and very encouraging financial results have been achieved
by applying cash control as proposed by consultants financed by the Bank. It
is likely though that only about 40% of the loan will be disbursed by the
December 31, 1980 Closing Date. Some of the major problems facing PANN in
acquiring and leasing ships are: (a) the effect of the 1978 devaluation of
the Rupiah; (b) continued overtonnage in the fleet; and (c) the reluctance of
the Government in undertaking a ship scrapping program and in enforcing its
safety and ship classification regulations. It is anticipated that the scope
of the loan will be broadened to include other than general cargo inter-island
ships and that an extension of the present Closing Date will be requested.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 25 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjunx Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4. 1976: Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the impact of the 1978
Rupiah devaluation, are 98% completed, and the Basin III civil works financed
by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 65% completed.
Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are 37% com-
pleted. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised construction
schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone overall
completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate the
full effect of delays on project cost. The Closing Date has been extended
by two years from December 31, 1979.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in
mid-1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e. roads) is scheduled
for December 1981. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8%
in 1977 to 286,000 visitors and by a further 13% in 1978 to 328,000; the
trend continued in 1979 but the increase in the number of foreign visitors
has been modest due to re-emerging air access difficulties, particularly by
foreign carriers to Bali. Three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are
under consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made.
Construction of a first hotel at Nusa Dua is expected to start in 1980 for
completion by mid-1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040   Jakarta Urban Development:  $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974: Effective Date:  January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31. 1980
The kampung improvement part of the project has been completed.
Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original plan of 1,980 ha.
The Klender sites and services component is about 98% complete. Of the total,
6,872 lots have been allocated to date, about 6,500 lots having been occupied.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 25 pages
The entire 7,250 units are expected to be available this year. The Closing
Date was recently extended by nine months due to delay in completion of the
project.
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic sanitary facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to about
3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha in Surabaya.
Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot program in both
cities. Upgrading costs for the first two-year program have been within the
appraisal estimates. However, the costs for the third-year program have been
affected by the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in
Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 45 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the kampungs. Land acquisition problems still continue to cause
some delays in completing the requisite number of health facilities and the
Closing Date was recently extended.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha),
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The pro-
ject is at an early stage of implementation.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the Closing Date has been extended by
eighteen months. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 25 pages
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980: Closing Date: December
31, 1984
This loan has just been declared effective.



- 55 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
NINTH POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetables of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: Two years
(b) Project prepared by: Suralaya Unit No. 2 by the 2Iontreal Engineering
Company (MONENCO) of Canada and EHV by Merz and
McLellan of the United Kingdom.
(c) First presented to the Bank: August 1977
(d) Departure of the Appraisal Mission: July 1979
(e) Completion of Negotiations: February 28, 1980
(f)  Planned Effectiveness:  September 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
To review progress in phasing out subsidies on domestic fuel consumption.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government will:
(i) provide to PLN sufficient funds on a timely manner to carry out
its development program as agreed with the Bank (para. 72); and
(ii) ensure that by no later than March 31, 1982, Government agencies'
outstanding electricity bills will not exceed two months of
billing (para. 71).
(b) PLN will:
(i) acquire by March 31, 1981 the lands required to install the
EHV lines (paras. 59 and 76); and
(ii) by 1986 meet 30% of its investment costs from its internal
revenues (para. 68).






_     ______________________________ IBRD 12435 R
toe°o 101 12                                                                                                                                                              AUGUST 1979
This mp has ben prettarodtY the Warhd 8t-kCe staff e-chstyely for the .osen,ss
SUMA TRA                                                          of the r-ders of the rootw r. r'h d io t r,attaced.The d,ts-ot,latitns -ced and the                                           INDONESIA
hnor-dii sthose, tyt th'I ittp do sot imPlY,. O th, er P.f the Watd Sock end ito
afilats  iy /dgtt,et ot the lgei stata of any territorY 0 senY e-dOrsertat ar
stoept-acesucOfhtA boudariets.                                                                                   JAVA   POWER  SYSTEM
MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND MAIN TRANSMISSION LINES
Suoalayt
POWER SuralaEXISTING AND PROPOSED
Krakataustcoly2> 1.       - ^X X ARTf--                                                                                                                STPAOTPIORS   SUBSTATIONS    TRANSMISSION LINES
C  Serang  ~-     G                                                                                                                                  EHV    150KV        EHV        ¶         EXISTING
Serang           .. X  I            _   K   t\   P                                                                       .eFA             df         ilF   ra          =UNDER CONSTRUCTIONiCOMMITTED FOR
--A                                 1/1 VA                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMPLETION BY, 1980181
/ooambi                                                                  /'0 \A X                         *          *        *            -                  FUTURE DEVELOPMENT BEYOND 1981
t~~~~~~ PAOJECT LOCATION
.  e>s   \ Jatiluhur           [                                                              _ - -~ -  1                                        >    PLN'SWILAYAH NUMBERIS
.    ig          Padarang                                                                                                                                              WILAYAH OR DISTRIBUSI HEADQUARTERS
-~. C             ianu ig                Dsgo    P        - -<                                                                                                                    - -CajPLN'S WILAYAH BOUNDARIES
Galu                          j                         ,                                   ,,,    t   > 7S                                                             SN6
Bandson .Uju)gberung  jste                                               n F   sEMRN          KudSii
Taoikromalsys |Pld *Pua      Psurwokert          an                             - ne gararaekategadu
-'       IRi4 -  ii  ei-,.   }8            y              -ma               k                                          Yagyak 0S.                                                                     k l00
(Yib      --      ,inongWlrp EstSmrng                                                                                                        MIE-
Tsogera.                                              Lloadtf  nga                    Kudo                                                                                                     Ka_raKnLr)MEtER
Ott~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ae
t Bogor                                                \
.  PrikJlok                                                                                     1100                                                       112°                                                     1140



