Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24186
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38670; PPFB-P2660)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$62 MILLION
TO THE
KAZAKHSTAN
FOR A
FINANCE AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
06/27/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 1993)
Currency Unit = Tenge
I Tenge = US$ 0.006
US$ I = 153 Tenge
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CEL                   Committee for External Loans
CIS                   Commonwealth of Independent States
DBS                   Department of State Borrowings
EBRD                  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBS                   International Business School
ICB                   International competitive bidding
ITIS                  Intergrated Tax Information System
MLSP                  Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
MoE                   Ministry of Economy
MoF                   Ministry of Finance
MSR                   Ministry of State Revenues
NBK                   National Bank of Kazakhstan
NCS                   National Commission of Securities
NGO                   Non-governmental organization
NIT                   National Information Technology
PCU                   Project Coordination Unit
PHRD                  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
PRAL                  Pension Reformn Adjustment Loan
PRIL                  Pension Reform Implementation Loan
RAU                   Restructuring Advisory Unit
RT                    Rehabilitation Trust
RTGS                  Real Time Gross Settlement
SAF                   State Accumulation Fund
SPC                   State Privatization Committee
SPPC                  State Pension Payment Center
STC                   State Tax Committee
TACIS                 Technical Assistance for the CIS
TAMP                  Tax Administration Modernization Project
TAL                   Technical Assistance Loan
TOR                   Terms of reference
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager/Director:    Ira Lieberman
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Rochelle Hilton



KAZAKHSTAN
FINANCE AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               11
6. Sustainability                                                                   13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  16
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                         24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               39






Project ID P008508                                        Project NVame: Finance and Enterprise Development
Team Leader. Rochelle Hilton                              TL Unit ECSPF
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Finance and Enterprise Development             L/I/TF NIVnber CPL-38670;
PPFB-P2660
Couinr,y/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                          Region   Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BP - Privatization; FS - Financial Sector
Development; IR - Industrial Restructuring
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD    01/25/1993                              Effective:  10/27/1995        10/27/1995
Appraisal   11/01/1993                                MTR
Approval   04/18/1995                              Closing: 09/30/1998           12/31/2001
Borrows er/lmpleomentting Agency: GOVT OF KAZAK.HSTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; GOVT OF
KAZAKHSTAN/NATIONAL BANK OF KAZAKHSTAN
Other Partners:  Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, Ministry of State
Revenues
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Country MJanager      Dennis de Tray                            Yukon Hong
Sector Manager.      Ira Lieberman                              Michael A. Gould
Team Leader at ICR   Rochelle Hilton                            Klaus Lorch
ICR Primamy Author.   Paula Genis; Lazzat Buranbaeva
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Oittcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Inipact SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entrv:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The principal objective of the project was to help accelerate and deepen fundamental restructuring
in the enterprise and financial sectors necessary for the success of the Government's economic
reform program. The Project was to support the private sector and Government institutions in: (i)
continuing privatization; (ii) preparing enterprise turnaround and liquidation; (iii) resolving bad
debts; (iv) developing sound commercial banks which could finance restructuring and new
investments; and (v) ensuring efficient, rapid and secure payments within Kazakhstan through
creation of a new payment system infrastructure.
The project continued the assistance provided under the Technical Assistance Loan - TAL (FY94)
- and constituted part the assistance package outlined in the first Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Kazakhstan (1994). It was designed to support the preparation and implementation of
the reform program as outlined in the Government's "Memorandum on Structural Reforms
Policies" (1993). This program was supported by the Systemic Transformation Facility of the IMF
(1993) and Bank Rehabilitation Loan (1993), as well as subsequent policy-based loans: Structural
Adjustment Loan (FY95) and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FY96). The project
complemented these efforts by addressing specific technical assistance needs and issues for
financial and enterprise sector development.
3.2 Revised Objective:
In 1998, the project was restructured reallocating funds to newly introduced components for
stock market development, pension reform and modernization of the tax administration. These
components reflected new priorities and directions of the Government's program and were in line
with the Bank's assistance strategy as articulated in the 1997 CAS. The stock market
development and pension reform were linked to and supplemented the original objective of the
project to help accelerate and deepen fundamental restructuring in the enterprise and financial
sectors, while modernization of tax administration was only loosely connected to the original
objectives. The restructuring provided funds for TA to support the next stage of its economic
reform program without additional borrowing.
3.3 Original Componients:
The project originally comprised: (a) an Enterprise Sector Reform component (US$16.8M of the
Loan), which included three subcomponents: Privatization Assistance Phase II (US$5.OM);
Restructuring Advisory Unit (RAU) (US$OM); and Study Tour Program for Enterprises
Managers (US$1.8M). These subcomponents provided: (i) support to the privatization process
through consultants' assistance for case-by-case privatization; (ii) help to establish and support
the operations of the Rehabilitation Trust which was to deal with the most indebted enterprises,
removing the debts from the commercial banks and forcing their restructuring and privatization or
liquidation; (iii) assistance for elaborating restructuring plans and training for enterprise managers
and (b) a Financial Sector Reform component (US$39.25M of the Loan), which included the
following subcomponents: Debt Resolution Institution (Rehabilitation Trust) (US$2.4M);
Commercial Banking Development (US$12.OM); Training for On-Site Banking Supervision,
Phase 11 (US$1 .OM); Long-Term Payment System (US$23.85M). In addition to assisting in
enterprise debt resolution, mentioned above, these subcomponents supported: (i) the institutional
development of commercial banks through assistance from foreign banks and IT improvements;
- 2 -



(ii) the strengthening of bank supervision; and (iii) the further development of the payment
system and of improved banking information systems. In addition, US$1 .5M was provided for
project implementation assistance.
The project was designed to deepen the institution-building efforts financed under TAL. The
RAU was specially designed to support the Rehabilitation Trust's activities. The loan proceeds for
implementation of the Financial Sector Reform subcomponents (excluding the Rehabilitation
Trust) were on-lent by the Government to the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK).
Foreign consultants assisted with procurement and disbursement procedures. Originally the
project implementation unit (PIU) was established in several implementing agencies (State
Privatization Committee, SPC, Ministry of Economy, MoE, Ministry of Finance, MoF, NBK).
However, in 1996, following changes in the Government's structure, the PIU functions were
consolidated in two PIUs: the MoF's PIU was to coordinate implementation of the Enterprise
Sector Reform subcomponents and Rehabilitation Trust subcomponent; the NBK's PIU was
responsible for implementation of the Financial Sector Reformn component. Implementation
arrangements were reasonably related to the project needs, its complexity and administrative
capacity of the implementing agencies.
3 4 Revised Components:
In 1998, the Government and NBK requested that the project be restructured to better respond to
the emerging priorities and needs of the reform program, especially for the Government's
priorities in the areas of pension and tax reform. This restructuring was approved by the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors in August 1998. To support the new priorities, US$14.85M was
returned by NBK to the MoF reducing the size of the Financial Sector Reform component and
US$12.65M was made available from the Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization
subcomponents as several of these subcomponents were already substantially completed by that
time. The restructuring reflected continued support for the original components and added (i)
support for stock market development through the institutional strengthening of the National
Commission on Securities (US$0.2M); (ii) assistance for the development and implementation of
the pension reform, known as the Pension Reform Implementation Loan (PRIL) (US$12.7M);
and (iii) modernization of the tax administration system (US$17.3M). The new pension and tax
components were treated as if they were free standing projects which led to the development of
additional project coordination units (PCU) in the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
(MLSP) and in the Ministry of State Revenues (MSR). Although the split of the of the project
into three independent operations was a practical solution to provide needed resources without
additional lending, it added complexity to the overall management of the project by the Borrower
and Bank.
3 5 Qualitv at Entry
There was no formal Quality at Entry review of this project. However, the project's quality at
entry is considered satisfactory overall. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS for
enterprise and financial sector restructuring. Substantial efforts went into the preparation of termns
of references (TOR) for consultants to facilitate early project start-up. The Bank and other
donors' operations in the country and lessons learned from the Bank's similar operations in other
countries were taken into account in the project design. The risks (policy changes, delays in
- 3 -



project implementation due to limited administration capacity and complexities of information
system procurement or slowness in preparing, deciding, and implementing economic reforms
closely related to the project) were correctly identified, and risk-mitigating measures (substantial
assistance to the project implementation, close supervision and contractor's payments being tied
to critical performance milestones) were envisaged. However, the design of the project was
flawed in that it was not sufficiently flexible to address emerging needs and realities of reform
implementation in a post-soviet economy, suffering from sharp economic decline and social
tension in the society and was over-optimistic both in complexity of operations, anticipated pace
of reforms and institutional capacity to absorb large amounts of technical assistance in a very
short time. The project relied heavily on the TAL and did not adequately reflect available donor
funding. This led to an over-scaled project and was a factor in the substantial restructuring.
However, it is important to note that the project was developed at an early stage of the country's
reforms when it was impossible to foresee their speed of implementation or to anticipate with
accuracy the technical assistance that would need to be supported by them.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Otutcomelachieve,nent of objective-
The achievement of project objectives was satisfactory overall. Despite uneven performance of
the FEDP components, as explained below, the project achieved its general objective,
demonstrated substantial development impact and contributed to the positive reforms in the
enterprise and financial sectors. Over the years of reforms, the Government stabilized the
macroeconomy, liberalized the financial sector, comprehensively transformed the pension system
and streamlined the public sector. Most small and medium-sized enterprises are now privately
owned. More reforms are needed to improve the environment for the entry and growth of private
enterprises, nevertheless the fundamental restructuring in the enterprise and financial sectors has
been done, and it has created the basis for further development of these sectors in a market
economy environment. The PRIL component failed to disburse as intended and much of the
component has been cancelled; however over the period from 1998 to 2001 many of the
objectives were met by other means and the supervision of the PRIL component played an
important role in this. The tax administration component has met its objectives and has been
instrumental in strengthening the capacity of the MSR and improving tax revenues.
With regard to the enterprise sector, during 1994-1997, State Privatization Committee (SPC)
privatized 89 enterprises on a case-by-case basis and concluded external management contracts
for 76 enterprises. The advisory services provided under the PHRD grant related to the project,
together with support from other donors (USAID, TACIS, EBRD), helped to create the
necessary legal basis and provided training to the SPC. Privatization actually proceeded far more
quickly than expected, although the Government, in the event, did not support the project
approach to privatization (selection of privatization consultants through competitive bidding with
further tender to sell assets). Instead, the Government elected to proceed with privatization
through cash auctions, direct negotiations and management contracts, rather than by case-by-case
international public offerings. The Bank did not agree to finance these non-competitive
privatization procedures. In particular, the Bank did not endorse the use of management
contracts, which are generally known to have poor results. Consequently, therefore the project
assistance was not utilized for this purpose. However, faced with the rapid deterioration of
- 4 -



economic situation and enterprises' financial position (exaggerated by the social tension in 1995),
the Government considered immediate private sector involvement and private financial injections
the best way to restore productive activities and this did have the positive impact of rapidly
privatizing a large number of enterprises. Thus, many of these privatizations took place outside
the scope of the project, because the SPC was unwilling to follow competitive selection process;
and also because the list of enterprises proposed for inclusion in the project comprised mainly less
attractive enterprises. The SPC reserved those with the best prospects for privatization to be
handled by its pre-selected consultants or started negotiations for direct sales or management
contracts. However, some enterprises that did pass through restructuring with the project's
support were successfully privatized later, and the project played an important role in
development of the SPC's (now State Property and Privatization Committee) techniques and
expertise, which it is using in the ongoing sale of controlling shares of large companies and banks
through competitive tender procedure. Apart from a few strategic enterprises, there are no large
state-owned companies left.
In addition in regard to the enterprise sector, the functions of the of the Restructuring Advisory
Unit (RAU) (or the Center for Advice to Insolvent Enterprises) were merged with the Agency on
Reorganization of Enterprises in 1998. The RAU was successful in helping to establish the
methodology and approach for viability analysis and preparation of restructuring and liquidation
programs. By mid-1998, of 598 insolvent enterprises included in the scope of Agency's activities,
the financial status of 30 enterprises had improved, 233 had been proposed for liquidation, 57 for
sale of state shares, 89 for restructuring, 15 for rehabilitation, 20 for financial rehabilitation, 9 for
reorganization. In 1998 the Agency received the mandate to deal with non-performing loans and
debts to the Government on a commercial basis (for a commission fee or for a portion of the
recovered debt). Project funds were not used for this purpose. The Agency completed its mandate
in 2001 and is now under liquidation.
The highly structured study tour program facilitated the transfer of market economy know-how
and gave a strong impulse to enterprise-manager led restructuring and development in the
furniture and food industries. A survey held after the completion of the activities confirmed
improved operations in over 40% of the enterprises where executives participated in the program.
For many of the enterprises, study tours provided the opportunity to establish partner relations
with western companies.
The project also supported the establishment of the Rehabilitation Trust (RT) to deal with the
most indebted enterprises in financial distress by controlling the financial flows into the distressed
enterprises and isolating them from the general banking system. This contributed to the healthy
development of the financial sector and stimulated enterprises to restructure, as this was a
condition for receiving funding from the RT. This funding could be used for severance payments
and payments of arrears to payroll, suppliers, social funds and Government. The RT also initiated
several liquidations. However, about 88% of RT's loans to enterprises were extended in response
to a Government decision. Although some or many of these enterprises may have qualified for
this support using objective criteria, this undermined the overall effectiveness of the RT. The RT
was closed in 1998 as planned, with transfer of the residual debts to the Agency on Restructuring
and Liquidation of Insolvent Enterprises.



In regard to the financial sector, the commercial banking activities have contributed to
Kazakhstan's success in building a banking system that is among the most advanced in the former
Soviet Union. The accreditation procedure for banks to participate in the project's twinning
program had a major impact on banks' activities and financial position of all banks that completed
the process, whether or not they eventually participated in twinning arrangements. The
procedures prompted the banks to review their operations, introduce intemational accounting
standards and extemal audit, improve their financial indicators, strengthen implementation of
prudential standards and prepare the strategic development plans. Twinning programs conducted
in two commercial banks proved to be successful and contributed to the institutional development
of these banks allowing them to increase their deposit base and access intemational financing. The
project also contributed to strengthening the NBK's supervision capacity through provision of
training and advisory services and supplemented assistance provided by USAID. Banking
supervision was assessed to be in compliance with 17 of the 25 Basle core principles and among
the strongest in the region. The project objectives to help to ensure efficient, rapid and secure
payments within Kazakhstan were not achieved as the project provided only limited support for
payment system development, as, in spite of the planned project activities, substantial
modemization of the payment system proved to be unnecessary. Although it could not have been
anticipated during project preparation, it eventually transpired that the existing interim system
could be upgraded, largely with in-house expertise to meet all requirements. In addition,
procurement issues precluded additional envisaged support for other payment system-related
technology improvements. Even without the project, Kazakhstan's payment (real time gross
settlement) system largely meets intemational standards.
If the pension component is seen only in the context of meeting the very narrow objectives set out
in the plan of work, then clearly much of the work was not undertaken and therefore the
objectives were not met as a result of the project. However, if the PRIL is seen in the context of
the good operation of the pension reform, then based on the fact that the PRIL was in place and
was supervised on a regular basis and did provide some very significant assistance, it could be said
that the PRIL indirectly had an important role in the development of the pension administration.
Many of the early policy refinements of the pension legislation came about as a direct result of
input from the Pension Reform Adjustment Loan (PRAL) and PRIL Bank teams working on
supervision missions. Likewise much of the administrative design of the State Pension Payment
Center and State Accumulation Fund came about as a result of the work of the supervision teams.
Considering the rather short implementation period (1998 to end 2001), achievements of the tax
administration system component were impressive. The Government ended up with a much more
useful product, the Integrated Tax Information System (ITIS). The project moved from its
original plan to one of a "basic modernization" phase one (replacing the "short-term
modernization" sub-component), followed by an "expansion of functionality" second phase
(replacing the former "long-term modernization"). The MSR followed best practice in its
implementation approach, with the tax software being fully developed and piloted before being
rolled out to the rest of country. The achievements of the tax administration system component
were possible due to (a) preparatory organizational and system design work which had been
carried out with the support of USAID under the Fiscal Reform Project, the results of which the
- 6 -



Government was willing to adopt, (b) earlier useful trial work with the home-grown tax software
development, on which further development work could be built under the project, and (c) a
technical and management counterpart team, up to and including the Minister of State Revenues
himself, that was eager to cooperate with the Bank in all stages of the project.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall project output is rated as satisfactory, although the results vary among the
subcomponents, as described below.
Enterprise Sector Reform
Privatization Assistance Phase II. This sub-component was over-scaled. Of the original allocation
of US$5M and US$L.1M after restructuring only US$0.52M was utilized.
The project envisaged financing fixed fees of consultants selected to prepare individual
privatizations of very large enterprises. At the time of project preparation the Government
earmarked 180 enterprises for case-by-case privatization. It successfully completed privatization
of a few of them with support from other donors (TACIS, USAID, French Government).
Preparation of tenders for selection of privatization consultants for 14 enterprises started with
PHRD funding, and by end-1996, the tender packages were prepared for 7 enterprises. However,
SPC decided to proceed with the tenders for only 3 enterprises, while 4 enterprises were sold by
cash auctions or were subject to bankruptcy procedures. The SPC also decided to cancel
preparation of tenders for the other 7 enterprises in the list, as it considered the Bank's
procedures too lengthy. Of the 3 enterprises where the tender process started, one was cancelled
due to the non-viability of the enterprise. The contract with the consultant selected for another
was not concluded because the enterprise was sold before the contract signing. Finally, only one
contract for pre-privatization assistance was finalized. However, this assistance did not materialize
in privatization because consultants disclosed serious environmental damage from the enterprise's
mercuric waste that made the enterprise non-attractive for potential investors.
Restructuring Advisory Unit. Of the original allocation US$OM and US$1.14M after the
restructuring, US$0.82M was utilized. The low disbursement level again reflects the over-scaling
of this subcomponent, late start-up of its implementation and the fact that far fewer enterprises
than planned benefited from the available advisory services.
The RAU was established in December 1995, to help enterprises transferred to the Rehabilitation
Trust (RT) elaborate restructuring plans required to receive loans from the RT. However, the
Unit's start-up was delayed for 8 months because the Government did not agree with the Bank on
its independent status; eventually a compromise was reached where the agency was given
sufficient operational independence to effectively carry out its operations. The project provided
consultant services to the RAU, study tours to review experiences in bankruptcy and financial
recovery of enterprises in Poland and Gernany, and a small amount of office furniture and
equipment. By 1998 the RAU, with the support of foreign and local consultants completed
viability analyses of 5 large enterprises, prepared restructuring plans for 3 of them and initiated the
liquidation of the remaining 2. The RAU also prepared marketing studies for 4 machinery-building
enterprises. In 1998 the Government decided that, with the cessation of activities of the RT, the
- 7 -



RAU in its current capacity was no longer required, and it was merged with the Agency on
Restructuring and Liquidation of Insolvent Enterprises. This subcomponent also supported a
public information program launched by the MSR to disseminate infornation on the new Tax
Code. This activity made a substantial contribution to establishing financial discipline in the
society and was an integral part of the overall program to improve tax administration.
Study Tour Program for Enterprise Managers. From the original allocation of US$1 .8M and the
revised allocation of US$1.6M, US$1 .54M was utilized. The tours were rigorously structured and
complemented by preparatory seminars and assistance. The German government provided
supplemental grant funding (US$0.2M). A private education institute, the International Business
School (IBS), coordinated the training activities. Two hundred fifty-four management executives
were trained in seminars conducted by the foreign experts; and 158 on study tours that were
partially funded by the grant of the hosting country. Tour participants adopted major changes in
their firms, founded some industry associations, and disseminated their knowledge through a
series of project-funded conferences. IBS continues to provide business training on commercial
basis, and subsequently introduced an MBA program and recently received status of the
university.
Financial Sector Reform
Debt Resolution Institution (Rehabilitation Trust. RT). From the original allocation of US$2.4M
and the revised allocation of US$2.3M allocated to this subcomponent, US$2.1 7M was utilized to
provide advisory support to the RT established in 1995. Between 1995-1997 the Goverunent
transferred 46 enterprises to the RT. With the assistance of the resident advisors, the institution
vastly improved its approach, skills and systems and operated substantially in line with agreed
operating principles. Staff of enterprises transferred to the RT was reduced on average by about
34.3%; 14 enterprises were restructured; and 26 enterprises were privatized or transferred under
the management contracts. The RT also initiated liquidation of 4 enterprises, including substantial
downsizing of coal mines in the Karaganda region. The RT ceased its operations by mid- 1998 as
planned under the project.
Commercial Banking Development. Of US$12M initially earmarked (US$6M after the 1998
restructuring) for twinning contracts of Kazak commercial banks with foreign banks and for
technology improvements about US$1.1 6M was utilized. While the twinning program had
positive results, as explained below, the funds allocated for automation of commercial banks were
not utilized primarily because of: (i) the availability of funds for IT development from other
donors (FMO, Neftebank); and (ii) delays in decision making and preparation of the required
documentation, coupled with the desire of banks to negotiate contracts directly with specific
suppliers, rather than using agreed competitive processes.
The program started in 1996 with assistance to the specialized state-owned Eximbank to prepare
its strategic plan and complete an IAS extemal audit. The twinning did not materialize because of
ongoing privatization efforts, which subsequently failed, in part because of the bankruptcy of the
potential investor. Eximbank itself did not survive the transformation, and is currently under trust
management by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan. In mid- 1997 three other banks were
- 8 -



accredited for twinning: Tsesna Bank, NefteBank (regional banks) and Halyk Saving Bank
(largest state-owned savings bank). Two banks concluded twinning: Tsesna Bank with Rabo
(RIAS) Bank, Holland, and NefteBank with Norwegian Banking Resources, Norway. The
twinning arrangement for Halyk Saving Bank did not materialize due to changes in the bank's
management, lack of an agreed strategy for the future direction of the bank and its low
commitment to the program. Recently Halyk Saving Bank was privatized through an open auction
managed by SPC. Tsesna Bank and Neftebank's twinning programs were successfully completed,
and the banks have become leading regional banks. In 2000, TemirBank and TuranAlemBank
were also accredited. However, these banks were very slow in making decisions and failed to
conclude twinning contracts, after very lengthy discussions, because they were unwilling to
commit the resources needed for such contracts, especially as they had expected substantial
support from grant funds which were not available by the time these banks were ready to make
their decisions. The Government's decision in mid-2001 to close the loan precluded their further
participation.
Training for On-Site Bank Supervision. Phase II. Of US$1M allocated US$0.33M was used
because USAID eventually provided this assistance. The project complemented this through
banking/financial English language training in Almaty for 18 officials and a vulnerability analysis
of the 20 borrowers of the 5 largest commercial banks. The project also supported strengthening
of NBK's insurance supervision capacity, which became a priority in 1998 following the transfer
of the Insurance Supervision from MoF to NBK and the subsequent consolidation of banking and
insurance supervision into one department of NBK. This support has effectively contributed to
strengthening financial sector supervision.
Long-Term Payment System. Out of US$23.9M initially allocated (US$15M after
Restructuring), only US$0.48M was utilized for consulting services for preparation of the bidding
documentation, appraisal of the existing payment system and study tours to the central banks. A
two stage international competitive bidding (ICB) procurement was initiated to establish a new
RTGS payment system but this process was subjected to constant delays and eventually it became
clear that such investments were not needed as the NBK, using its own staff and resources had
transformed the interim solution into a successful permanent system. The NBK also started, after
several years of discussion, a two-stage bidding process for banking application software. This
was cancelled by the NBK at the second stage, because of the high price of bids received. The
procurement process was consistently problematic with delays on both NBK and Bank sides in
decision-making, documentation clearance and consideration of IT specification and requirements.
In addition, commercial banks, which were supposed to be beneficiaries of the banking application
software and contribute to repayment of the correspondent amounts of the loan proceeds, were
reluctant to commit to a costly investment before knowing the precise cost and benefits, thus
adding to the uncertainty in required scale and customization requirements of the software.
Pension Reform Implementation Loan. Of the US$12.7M allocated to the PRIL component in the
1998 restructuring, only US$2.46M was eventually disbursed mainly for TA to support the
implementation of the PRAL, and for goods and operating costs for the PCU in the MLSP. The
limited amount of actual disbursements were due in large part to the Government's change in
policy with regard to the use of TA. It is disappointing, however the PRIL component was
-9-



designed to complement the adjustment lending under the PRAL and the PRIL was used to great
effect to assist the Government in meeting the second tranche conditions of the PRAL. Also
although the individual objectives of the PRIL were not met, the overall objective of putting in
place a sound pension policy and an effective pension administration were met in full, and the
PRIL work contributed significantly to that.
Part C. Project Implementation Assistance. Of US$1.5M originally envisaged for the
subcomponent US$0.65M was utilized to finance a small amount of office equipment and
computers for NBK's PIU, as well as training for both MOF's and NBK's PIU staff.
Assistance to the National Commission on Securities (NCS). Of the modest amount of US$0.2M
provided, about US$0.07M was used for training and marketing activities of the NCS, and
development of a website. Further support was cancelled due to merger of the NCS with the
NBK and the Government's decision not to borrow for TA.
Tax Administration System. Of the US$17.3 million allocated to this component in the 1998
restructuring, US$17.22 million was disbursed for expert advice, software development, hardware
and other equipment purchase, and training. The project was originally conceived in two parts, the
first to develop a software, which could be implemented rapidly, and the second to develop a
much more comprehensive software which would run concurrently with the first and then
smoothly take over from it. This concept was to evolve due to the excellent work of the software
firm, guided by the highly competent and motivated team in the MSR. The State Tax Committee
(STC) formulated and implemented the reorganization and automation strategy envisaged in the
project concept, coordinating with the inputs from the USAID/Barents group. Adaptation and
customization of the software to quickly implement the first phase of the strategy agreed with the
Bank proceeded rapidly. The Tax Administration workshop held in January 2000 on issues
around the reformulation of the 1995 tax code proved a turning point in the implementation of the
component and in the attempt to maintain the focus the tax administration on business, rather than
only IT, needs. After the workshop, the Tax Administration Modernization Project (TAMP)
integrated the changes in the new tax code in the software developed in the first phase.
Consequently, the Government ended up with a much more useful product, the Integrated Tax
Infornation System (ITIS). The new tax administration software - a 100% Kazakh creation,
which the represents the international state-of-the-art in software technology - has been piloted
intensively in the Karaganda oblast to determine its effectiveness in supporting the tax
administration and its user-friendliness.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Finiancial rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.5 Instititional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as substantial as the project considerably improved
the country's ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources and to implement
reforrns in enterprise and financial sectors, as well as for tax administration. The transformations
-10-



supported are considered to be irreversible. The new tax administration system (ITIS)
implemented with project funds will have a major institutional development impact once rolled out
to the rest of the country. ITIS, as soon as it is fully operational, will allow the MSR to turn its
attention to working with the specific and aggregated data for the benefit of effective tax
collection, improved revenue forecasts and increased ability for developing tax policy, and spend
less staff energy on the administration/ collection process itself. The SPC has continued to use the
privatization techniques developed during the project in several large privatization cases (e.g,
TuranAlemBank, Halyk Saving Bank, Kazakhlnstrakh insurance company, etc.), which were
conducted through competitive bidding. The project also supported development of the
Intemational Business School into a leading Kazakhstan educational institution providing training
on business administration. The Rehabilitation Trust played a very important role in improving the
health of the financial sector and, together with the Restructuring Advisory Unit, formed an
institutional basis for further creditor-led restructuring and bankruptcy in the enterprise sector.
Through assistance to the commercial banking system, the project helped to promote the
introduction of international banking standards and played an important role in strengthening the
banking sector. Also the supervision of the PRIL component had a significant impact on the
administration of pensions and on the general institutional development in the MLSP although this
was not funded from the project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencY:
The general economic decline in 1994-1996 and social tension arising from the transition program
had an impact on the outcome of the project. The privatization and restructuring programs
involved substantial downsizing and liquidation of enterprises which would be expected to result
in massive lay-offs in affected areas. In its efforts to restore public confidence, in addition to
severance payments and other measures envisaged under the project, the Government took a
more interventionist position in the decisions of the Rehabilitation Trust. Furthermore, the rapid
deterioration in the financial health of enterprises forced the Government to seek fast solutions to
restore productive activities and select a more rapid privatization program than that provided for
under the project. The frequent changes in the Bank's team for the Financial and Enterprise
Sector Reform components through internal restructuring and staff turnover had an adverse effect
on project implementation.
5.2 Factors generally siubject to government control:
Frequent changes in the Government structure and counterpart arrangements affected project
implementation. The PRIL component had three changes of Minister and Deputy Ministers in the
three years of the project leading to a lack of continuity and long periods of inactivity while
Ministerial changes were made. There were shortcomings in the management and coordination of
the various Enterprise Sector Reform subcomponents: many different agencies were involved and
at times it was not clear who was responsible for project activities. These transformations had an
adverse impact on the functioning of the PIU and its institutional capacity and led in high staff
turnover and additional training needs. The establishment of the PIU in the MoF effectively
overcame this problem. In case of FEDP, move to Astana had partial effect on implementation
because most of the Enterprise Sector Reform subcomponents either were not directly related to
the Government's agencies or the implementation of the "old" components of FEDP was
- 11 -



practically completed by 1998 when the move to Astana started.
The Government's decision not to use borrowed funds for TA had substantial effect on the
project's output, although the Government intends to finance some activities from the budget. In
particular, as the PRIL was largely TA based this had a major impact on disbursements.
5.3 Factors generally suibject to implententing agency contiol:
Low comnmitment to the project implementation. NBK actively participated at the initial stage of
the implementation of the Commercial Bank Development subcomponent, but this commitment
later diminished and was eventually limited primarily to disbursement operations. The SPC was
unwilling to use the Bank's procurement procedures, so implementation of the privatization
subcomponent was limited. Project outcomes were better when the implementing agency had a
strong commitment to the project and a clear vision of the project's activities and proactive
approach (e.g., Study Tour Program for Enterprise Managers, the Rehabilitation Trust and MSR
for the tax component).
Frequent changes of key personnel involved in the project implementation also impacted
implementation. This was partially the result of constant reorganizations and also because of
better opportunities outside of civil service for staff with upgraded or new skills which were in
great demand in the growing private sector. NBK addressed this risk by contractually requiring
staff receiving project-funded training to stay with the organization or to repay the cost.
Ineffective use of TA. In the case of the PRIL component, TA was provided for the PCU,
however while the TA was in place it was used to operate the PCU rather than to transfer
knowledge to local staff. As a result when the TA contract ended the PCU was left with little
sustainable expertise and it took some months before they could operate efficiently.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The original loan amount was US$62M, of which US$27.45M or 46% was utilized and
US$34.55M cancelled. Two reallocations were made following the restructuring of the project.
The total loan disbursements by component were as follows: US$2.95M for the Enterprise Sector
Reform; US$4.14M for the Financial Sector Reform; US$2.46M for the PRIL; and US$17.22M
for the Tax Administration System (and US$0.65M for implementation assistance and US$0.03M
for PPF refinancing). Complete information on the actual co-financing and Government
co-financing is not available. The closing date of the loan was extended twice: when the project
was restructured in 1998, to June 30, 2001, and subsequently to December 31, 2001. The project
experienced significant delays which were caused by: (i) an over-optimistic implementation
schedule and over-estimated subcomponent costs; (ii) delayed start-up of the Restructuring
Advisory Unit activities; (iii) delays in implementing the Commercial Banking Development
subcomponent; (iv) problems with implementation of the Privatization Assistance subcomponent;
and (v) confusion in line Ministries about the exact meaning of the Government's ruling on TA
procurement causing Ministers to stop all TA when that was not the Government's intention. A
more realistic implementation schedule was established as part of the project restructuring. The
submission of the 2001 audit report on components implemented by the MoF, MSR and MLSP
(for the pension and tax components and non-NBK subcomponents of the Financial and
Enterprise Sector Reform component) was somewhat delayed because the MoF had not budgeted
- 12 -



funding from its own resources, and special arrangements needed to be made to fund it from the
loan fimds.
The major IT procurement envisaged under the project did not materialize, disbursements under
other NBK subcomponents were low, and in 2001, the Government canceled US$20.3M of the
total amount on-lent to NBK. The Government also canceled residual funds (US$1.9M) under the
Enterprise Sector Reform subcomponents, the remaining unallocated amount (US$1.9M) and
US$9.7M under the Pension Reform component, following the Government's decision not to use
loan funds for TA and not to seek a further closing date extension to complete ongoing activities.
A remaining balance of US$0.7M was canceled when the Loan was closed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as likely. As most of the Enterprise Sector Reform
subcomponents of the project were completed by mid-1 998, there is clear evidence of the
sustainability of these results. The Government's commitment to the reform program and its
capacity to manage it is proved by the impressive progress of the reforms over the past years.
Most of the enterprises are privatized. The banking sector of the country appears to be strong and
quickly recovered from extemal shock during the financial crisis in Russia in 1998. The resilience
to this crisis is also partly thanks to the Rehabilitation Trust's activities, which isolated from the
banking system the largest distressed and indebted enterprises. Banking supervision is in
compliance with many of the Basel Core Principles. Impressive progress in a short period of time
was made in development of insurance supervision. Since 2000, industrial output in
non-extractive sectors of the economy has been growing. Enterprises actively participate in the
EBRD program on providing the restructuring and marketing advice that is largely in line with the
approach proposed under the Restructuring Advisory Unit subcomponent. The former
International Business School continues to provide training on business administration and
seminars for enterprise managers on a commercial basis.
There is no doubt of the sustainability of the TAMP-financed activities. The multiple system
development initiatives underway or planned at MSR, of which the project-supported ITIS is only
one element, have thus far been successful. Building on the achievements to date, the MSR
intends to establish integrated multiple systems (ITIS-2), which would include the introduction of
electronic forms processing, Call Centers providing a help desk for taxpayers, and the
computerization and integration of the Customs and Excise functions. Tax administration
modernization has been pushed forward simultaneously on many fronts, and ITIS, as soon as it is
fully operational, will help amplify gains already achieved. In general, further improvement of
management and supervision IT-techniques for tax and customs administration functioning as well
as development of tax reporting forms' electronic processing and analyzing are considered as a
priority direction of the MSR activity.
6.2 Transition arrangemnent to regular operations:
Not applicable.
- 13-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during lending is rated as satisfactory. The project was designed in line
with the Government's development program and the Bank's assistance strategy. The Bank
closely worked with the Govemment on preparation of the project and initially appointed
implementing agencies to the project. The major risks were correctly identified, including policy
changes and possible problems with complex IT procurement. The project's start up activities
were thoroughly prepared including TOR for the consultants to be hired to provide assistance,
although perhaps too much reliance was on decisions made in the context of the TAL. However,
the project was overly ambitious and complex, and funds required for implementation were
overestimated, as they did not adequately reflect donor funding, and the country's appetite for TA
or its absorption capacity. However, this project was one of the Bank's first operations in the
country, and, when it was prepared, there was little experience of the implementation of reforms
and it was critically important to ensure that adequate resources and know-how was readily
available to facilitate implementation of an ambitious reform program in an extremely dynamic
environment.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision is rated as satisfactory. The 1998 restructuring resulted in the Financial and
Enterprise Sector Reform subcomponents being effectively considered as one project and the Tax
and Pension components each as a separate project, with separate budgets and staffingi. Until the
final year of the project, little was done to coordinate either supervision or reporting, but this did
not significantly affect supervision of each three independent components. Supervision of the Tax
and Pension components was satisfactory and benefited from continuity in staff. The Financial and
Enterprise Sector Reform subcomponents suffered from frequent changes in the Bank's team
through intemal restructuring and staff turnover (including six Task Managers, with some
working only a few months). These frequent changes reduced the effectiveness of the Bank's
support as they detracted from the intensive supervision necessary in technical assistance
operations and resulted at times in providing conflicting advice (e.g., in IT procurement). Also,
the absence of a country-based project officer since 1999 made the liasoning between the Bank
and Borrower more difficult. Nevertheless, despite these difficulties, the Bank was receptive in
responding to the changing circumstances. It was flexible in responding to emerging needs,
introducing changes during implementation, for example in the extensive restructuring,
reallocation of loan proceeds and including new activities in the project.
7.3 Overall Bank perfornmance:
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory, although it is marginally satisfactory in supervision
of the Financial and Enterprise Sector Reform components with frequent changes of the Bank
team.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's preparation of the project was satisfactory overall. The Borrower participated in
the project design and appraisal providing the Bank with the relevant information and comrnents.
The cooperation provided by the Borrower was critical in ensuring that the objectives and
- 14 -



priorities were relevant to the country's needs and in line with the Borrower's expectations. There
were no major delays in signing and effectiveness of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as unsatisfactory. The implementation
performance of the Government in the tax component was good; the MSR was very committed to
the project objectives and implementation, and its cooperation with the Bank was excellent. With
regards to the Financial and Enterprise Sector Reform components, the Government did not
comply with certain project requirements, such as the case-by-case privatization program,
ensuring the full independent status of the Restructuring Advisory Unit and independence of
Rehabilitation Trust lending decisions. The Government did not allow adequate funding in the
yearly budgets of the MLSP to meet the agreed project implementation timetable causing further
delays. Reorganizations of the Government's structure led ati times to uncertainty in the project's
implementation arrangements. These shortfalls negatively affected implementation progress and
the project's outcome. Finally, the Government's decision not to use loan funds for TA led to
cancellation of several ongoing activities before their benefits could be fully realized, even though
the Government intends to finance some ongoing activities from the budget.
7.6 ImplemnentingAgency:
Overall performance of the implementing agencies is rated as satisfactory although it varied
among the components. The project demonstrated good results in subcomponents where the
implementing agencies had strong commitment to the project (International Business School,
PCU of the MSR). The PCU of the MSR was particularly highly competent and motivated despite
the shortness of staff for the entire implementation period. In the Enterprise Sector Reform
component plus the Rehabilitation Trust, the project included several implementing agencies
coordinated by the MoF's PIU. All implementing agencies, excluding SPC, demonstrated good
performnance, however, often they suffered from delays in obtaining needed clearances from the
MoF's PIU, which passed through five reorganizations. The Financial Sector Reform
subcomponents (excluding Rehabilitation Trust) were implemented by NBK, which was strongly
committed to the project objectives. The NBK PIU staff were well qualified personnel and
performed well in the early years. However, in the later years of implementation, the PIU became
more passive as project activity became less intense and relations with the commercial banks
weakened. The PIU became more of a channel for transmitting documents to and from the Bank.
In particular, the PIU was insufficiently involved in the procurement activities of both,
contributing to some of the problems that were experienced (e.g., complete and accurate
information was not always immediately provided, perhaps due to lack of familiarity of
beneficiaries with Bank procedures). The MLSP as the implementation agency for the PRIL
component failed to make best use of the TA provided for the PCU. They did however recover
from this and towards the latter part of the project provided a highly skilled and motivated PCU
team.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance was satisfactory, although it did not
totally meet the performance requirements for the Financial and Enterprise Sector Reform and
pension components.
- 15 -



8. Lessons Learned
1. The Borrower's ownership of and commitment to the project is critically important for success.
The lack of this and of interest in using loan funds became one of the most serious issues in the
project implementation. For instance, the SPC originally committed to use US$5M for
privatization, but lost interest in the project when it became clear that the loan could not be used
to finance its pre-selected consultants. If project activities had been better worked out with SPC
during the preparation stage, this could perhaps have been avoided. This lack of commitment was
also evident in the Commercial Banking Development subcomponent. The Government's decision
not to cancel the loan also flagged the Government's lack of a sustained commitment to the
objectives of the project.
2. Flexibility of design is essential in technical assistance operations, particularly in rapidly
changing environments of a transition economy. During preparation it was impossible to correctly
forecast the speed of reforms and to identify needs that would emerge during implementation.
Initial priority needs are likely to be superseded by subsequent events and measures should be
incorporated in project design to adapt to changing circumstance and address these emerging
needs. Such operations also requires close supervision to promptly identify and address problems
and risks.
3.The project design and implementation arrangements should be simple. The project design
became overly complex which contributed to implementation and coordination problems. Smaller
TA loans with straightforward components and activities are generally more effective and
manageable.
4. Close and frequent collaboration with Rroject beneficiaries is an essential element of technical
assistance projects and helps to reinforce borrower commitment. Participation in the team of
technically qualified field staff is especially beneficial in this regard. For the FEDP, implementation
suffered when qualified Country Unit staff left and could not be replaced.
5. Complex IT procurement requires close supervision and strong technical support both on the
part of the beneficiary and the Bank. Agreement on the objectives and on complete technical
specifications by all involved parties is essential before any bidding process is initiated.
Preparation of specifications is complex and time-consuming and requires specific expertise in
both technical aspects and competitive bidding procedures. To facilitate the acquisition of
appropriate hardware and software, the beneficiary agencies could benefit from assistance of an
IT specialist familiar with ICB procedures who could work in close cooperation with the Bank's
IT staff.
- 16 -



6. Continuity in staffing is a critical factor for project success. The high turnover of personnel
involved in the project implementation and supervision on both the Government and the Bank's
side contributed to implementation delays. Frequent staff changes impact the effectiveness of
resolving implementation problems and increase the cost of the project, particularly in technical
assistance operations which require intensive supervision and continuity in decisions.
7. Funding of the proiect audit should be incorporated into the project costs to ensure that
adequate counterpart funding would be available. Lack of early planning of the funding may lead
in delayed submission of the audit report by the Borrower.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrow er/iniplementing agency:
The Ministry of Finance together with the Ministry of State Revenues and Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection agreed in general with the ICR prepared by the Bank. The National Bank of
Kazakhstan submitted a separate evaluation report which, together with the annexes (OJSC
Neftebank's and OJSC Tsesnabank's analysis of the twinning program), is available in project
files. Main parts of the NBK's evaluation report are attached.
Comments of the Ministry of Finance (together with the Ministry of State Revenues.
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection and other a2encies involved in the proiect)
Having considered, together with the ministries and agencies involved in the project, the draft ICR
for the FEDP submitted by the Bank, the MOF of the Republic of Kazakhstan informs that the
report is accepted in general and the Ministry does not have any principal remarks on its content.
The MSR and MLSP components are covered in the ICR in corpore. In connection with the fact
that the Project consists of several components the MSR, however, believes that in order to
reflect the overall outcome the report should contain key indicators of the subcomponents (Stock
Market Development Strengthening through institutional facilitation of the NBK, Assistance in
Development and Implementation of the Pension System Reform, Tax Administration
Modernization). The performance rating for the Tax Administration Modemization component
was determined by the MSR as follows: Outcome - HS, Sustainability - HL, Institutional
Development Income - H, Bank Performance - HS, MSR Performance - HS.
Completion Report of the National Bank of Kazakhstan
Background and obiectives
In the 1990's one of the intentions of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was to
stabilize and transform the economy. The success of the economic reform programs depended on
the fundamental restructuring in the enterprises and financial sectors. The main objectives of the
Project regarding the financial sector were developing sound commercial banks which then would
also be able to finance enterprise-level restructuring and new investment. The Project also aimed
at ensuring efficient, rapid and secure payments within Kazakhstan through creation of a new
payment system infrastructure.
- 17 -



Achievements
"Commercial Banking Development" component
This component's main purpose was to strengthen the commercial banking activities of local
banks. It was focused on: (i) development of a core of new, but rapidly growing private banks in
reaching intemational standards and (ii) restructuring and consolidation of large banks,
implementation of twinning arrangements with reputable foreign banks.
Initially, two large banks were pre-selected for restructuring support under this loan:
Agroprombank and People's Bank. Both needed to undergo intensive restructuring. However,
taking into account circumstances and the changing strategy of the banks, both banks declined
participation in the twinning program. In 1997 two private, medium-sized banks were selected
through a three-step process. Eximbank of Kazakhstan was also selected. These banks were
subject to comprehensive financial and institutional diagnostic studies by international audit firms
to confirm that these banks met the selection criteria. Arthur Andersen audit company provided
international audit only for Eximbank Kazakhstan. However, this bank declined further
participation in the twinning arrangements.
Thus, the National Bank accredited the following commercial banks for participation in this
program: OJSC Neftebank, OJSC Tsesnabank, OJSC Bank TuranAlem, OJSC Halyk Savings
Bank of Kazakhstan and OJSC TemirBank. The following agreements were concluded under the
financing of this component: OJSC Eximbank - US$204,408, OJSC Neftebank - US$650,000
and OJSC Tsesnabank - US$358,241.
OJSC Neftebank. In order to realize the institutional development program (twinning),
Neftebank signed a contract with the consultant on July 21, 1998. The program was aimed at
providing consultant's services to the bank. Due to the voluntary liquidation of the consultant, a
Supplementary Agreement to the above Contract between Neftebank and an assignee of the
consultant was signed on August 22, 2000. The assignee continued work in Neftebank on various
modules of the twinning program. On November 8, 2001 the National Bank concluded a
Supplementary Agreement to the Agreement between the National Bank and OJSC Neftebank
dated December 31, 1998 for cancellation of the undisbursed balance in the amount of
US$20,286.42. As of December 31, the Agreement between National Bank and OJSC Neftebank
is considered closed.
OJSC Tsesnabank. A contract between Tsesnabank and the consultant was signed on June 26,
1998. The ceiling of the contract was US$599,741 An agreement between the National Bank and
Tsesnabank was signed on July 17, 1999. Under this Agreement, US$358,241 was provided from
the IBRD loan proceeds. In addition, a FMO company (Netherlands Development Finance
Company) provided co-financing in the amount of 483,000 Dutch guilders, out of which 250,000
Dutch guilders were given in a form of a grant and 233,000 - as an interest-free loan. On July 12,
2000 Tsesnabank prepaid to the National Bank the principal debt in the amount of 100,000 US
dollars. On April 25, 2001, a final meeting of the Managing Committee under the twinning
- 18 -



program was carried out. As of January 1, 2002, the balance on the contract was US$46,072.24.
In accordance with the NBK's request, the loan closing date was postponed till December 31,
2001. During 2002 OJSC Tsesnabank utilized only US$10,356, and on June 10, 2002 a
Supplementary Agreement between NBK and OJSC Tsesnabank about prepayment and
cancellation of the unutilized funds was signed.
OJSC Bank TuranAlem. On June 28, 2000, Bank TuranAlem placed an announcement in the
Development Business about bids under the twinning program. On October 21, 2000, the World
Bank gave no-objection to a package of bidding documentation for Bank TuranAlem. On
November 22, 2000, Bank TuranAlem sent the bidding documentation to 5 foreign banks and
companies willing to render consulting services under the twinning program. Technical and
financial offers are received from 4 firms. The firms' offers were opened on May 3, 2001. The
bank made an analysis of the submitted bids. However, in the bank's opinion the amount of the
co-financing provided by World Bank was not satisfactory. Thus, OJSC Bank TuranAlem
declined participation in the twinning program.
As mentioned above, OJSC Halyk Savings Bank of Kazakhstan showed interest in
participating in the twinning program more than once. In 2000, OJSC Halyk Savings Bank of
Kazakhstan continued preparatory works under the twinning program. However, due to the
change of standard forms of bidding documents of the World Bank and the development strategy
of Halyk Savings Bank, further implementation of procedures under the twinning program was
suspended. The issue about Halyk Savings Bank's participation in the institutional development
program within the Project was open until announcement of the loan closing date. In accordance
with forthcoming loan closing date, the proposal of OJSC Halyk Savings Bank of Kazakhstan
regarding the participating at the twinning program was refused.
OJSC Temirbank. The National Bank and World Bank accredited Temirbank for inclusion in the
institutional development program in August 1999. As Temirbank did not plan to carry out a
full-scale twinning program, but only an automation plan, the World Bank recommended to
Temirbank to use a special form of bidding documentation for delivery and installation of
information systems. On November 30, 2000, the World Bank published an announcement in the
Development Business of Temirbank's intention to carry out a bid for procurement of information
systems. The World Bank's no-objection to the bidding documentation of Temirbank was
received on April 30, 2001. Thus, taking into account the forthcoming loan closing date, OJSC
Temirbank made a decision to decline participation in the twinning program.
Shortcomines
All banks participated in the realization of twinning program considered the IBRD loan very
useful for their activity. However, the Bank team should change length of consideration of
documents. Based on their experience, consideration of the bidding documents took 2-3 months
on the average. All procedures, including consideration of documents, preparing the draft contract
with winner and concluding the contract could last about 6-8 months. The frequent change of the
Bank team also affected project implementation. The NBK would like to emphasize that the last
Bank team was able to decrease this time significantly.
- 19-



"Long-Term Payment System " component
The main purpose of this component was installation of the long-term payment system. Initially,
the situation with payment system was the following: the payment system had severe differences
in its rules and procedures, obsolete equipment and software, poor overall system architecture.
NBK was working on all these problems: improvement of the rules and procedures was discussed
since 1992 with the support of the IMF and Bank of Japan. Some hardware and software for
short-term improvement was installed also under the Technical Assistance Loan. A new payment
system for the long term was to be established under the FEDP loan. With a view of fulfilling the
given tasks, a National Payment Council was created in January 1995. The Council consisted of
representatives of the NBK, MOF, commercial banks and the Union of Entrepreneurs.
1) Bids for procurement of the Banking Information System and the General
Administrative System for the National Bank and commercial banks of Kazakhstan
In order to realize the program of automation and transition of the banking system of Kazakhstan
up to international standards, the National Bank carried out two-stage competitive bids for
procurement of a Banking Information System and General Administrative System for the
National Bank and commercial banks of Kazakhstan.
After the first stage of the bids, three companies were selected for participation in the second
stage of the bids on the banking information system for the National Bank; three companies - on
the banking information system for commercial banks; and five companies - on the General
Administrative system for the National Bank and commercial banks.
According to the World Bank's comments on November 10, 2000, it was necessary to determnine
an exact number of commercial banks participating in procurement of the banking information
systems. Banks refused to give commitments for procurement of systems, and the National Bank
made a decision to continue the bids without participation of commercial banks.
On April 4, 2001, no-objection to realization of the second stage of the bids was received. On
April 18, 2001, the bidding documents were sent to the companies participating in the bids. It was
originally supposed to open the bids on June 8, 2001, but after pre-bids meeting of May 15, 2001
with the bidders, some changes were made in the technical specifications of both bidding
packages, and it was also decided to prolong the deadline for bid submission until June 22, 2001.
On May 23, 2001, a request from one bidder for extension of the deadline for submission of bids
until approximately August 8, 2001 was received. Having considered this request, the National
Bank made a decision on additional extension of the deadline till July 10, 2001. The bidding
process was cancelled by the NBK, because the received bids prices were much more higher than
were expected.
- 20 -



2) Bids for procurement of the Interbank Payment System of Kazakhstan
On June 25, 1999, the World Bank gave no-objection to the bidding documents for the first stage
of bids on procurement of the Interbank Payment System. On June 30, 1999, a "Kazakhstanskaya
pravda" newspaper and the Development Business published an invitation to participation in the
bids. On September 15, 1999, a meeting on opening of the participating firms' bids was
conducted. Four companies took part in the international competitive bids on the Interbank
Payment System. On February 9, 2000 the first stage evaluation report was sent for the World
Bank's consideration. In accordance with this report three bidders were selected for the second
stage bidding process.
On March 2, 2000 the NBK received comments of the IMF and World Bank joint mission to
review the need for replacing the existing payment system. To clarify this issue, the NBK
specialists visited the Central Bank of Turkey to learn the Turkish payment system (May 23-26,
2000). After this study the Tender Committee made a decision to suspend the tender and invite
payment systems experts to provide consulting services on development of the prospects for
Kazakhstan's payment system.
On October 30, 2000, a Request for Proposal including "Terms of References" was sent to five
consulting companies. By November 28, 2000 responses were received from three companies.
According to the Tender Committee's decision dated January 30, 2001, the contract was
concluded with the consultant. According to the consultant's final report on the study of the
payment system, the existing payment system meets the intemational standards and such
investments were not needed.
Institution building for on-site bank supervision
This component aimed at deepening of training provided to the NBK's Banking Supervision
Department for the development of its on-site examination activities. The first phase of this
program was financed under the Technical Assistance Loan. This program was designed and was
implemented in coordination with the IMF and USAID for providing assistance on supervision
regulations, bank licensing and off-site supervision. The World Bank support focused on the
on-the-job training of bank examiners. The loan component amount was US$1 million. USAID
was expected to fund training with a total of US$200,000.
1) Training of Banking Supervision Department (BSD) and Insurance Supervision
Department (ISD)
The Banking and Insurance Supervision Department prepared a detailed report about the results
of utilization of the FEDL proceeds as part of the Institution Building for On-Site Bank
Supervision component.
In the Banking and Insurance Supervision Department's understanding, the main objectives of the
Institution Building for On-Site Bank Supervision component were to improve effectiveness of
the current banking supervision carried out through distance supervision and inspection of banks.
- 21 -



In particular, it was necessary to develop the system of internal reporting for analysis of banks'
financial position and fulfillment of the National Bank's requirements by banks, the order of
banks' inspection, implementation of supervision on a consolidated basis, and the system of
guaranteeing (insurance) of physical persons' deposits.
With active participation of USAID representatives, the above mentioned actions have been
completely realized. Using the loan proceeds, specialists of the Banking and Insurance
Supervision Department had an opportunity to gain practical skills of internal supervision carried
out by the US Deposit Insurance Corporation and separate supervision bodies of the Federal
Reserve System, as well as to take a training course on insurance issues in the head office of AON
Ltd. (London), to attend a course of lectures in the Chartered Insurance Institute (London), to
receive required training materials and to use them to pass a qualification exam. In addition,
specialists of the Banking and Insurance Supervision Department were able to participate in a
conference on actuarial activity and in insurance supervision seminars. Besides, the loan proceeds
were used to purchase the required training literature (in English) on actuarial activity, life
insurance, reinisurance, investment issues, etc. At the expense of the loan proceeds, Business
English courses were organized for specialists of the Banking and Insurance Supervision
Department. During the courses great attention was paid to study of financial and banking terms.
The USAID representatives rendered practical assistance in creation of such systems in
Kazakhstan as the system of mortgage financing, house construction savings, in development of
the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan 'On Insurance Activity', in adoption of relevant
amendments into the Tax Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as in preparation of a
number of normative legal acts regarding regulation of the insurance activity and its supervision.
In addition to the above mentioned, the USAID representatives constantly rendered consultative
assistance in solution of various tasks.
Therefore, NBK considers that the loan proceeds for the project of financial services development
were of significant assistance to the Banking and Insurance Supervision Department. There were
no problems in implementation of the financial services development project as a part of the
Institution Building for On-Site Bank Supervision component.
Training courses for specialists of the Banking and Insurance Supervision Department carried out
at the expense of the loan proceeds favored: (i) extension of collaboration between the Banking
and Insurance Supervision Department and supervision bodies of other countries; (ii) analysis of
intemational experience of banking and insurance supervision; and (iii) analysis of practical
experience of banking and insurance supervision of other countries.
The following activities were carried out within this sub-component: learning of English, training
in the US banks, participation of Banking and Insurance Supervision Department specialists in the
thematic seminars.
In November, 1999 NBK made decision to allocate part of component "Building of Banking
Supervision On-Site" for the ISD Training Program. Within this Program ISD specialists attended
the following seminars and conferences: (i) September 29 - October 1, the 4th Intemational
- 22 -



Conference of Actuaries of Central and Eastem Europe (Hungary); (ii) December 4-8,
Eastem-European Regional Seminar (Austria); and (iii) December 10-16, Prospects for Insurance
Industry (UK).
The ISD Training Program for 2001 consisted of: (i) Charted Institute of Insurance (UK).
Purpose: distance study (in English) of seven experienced specialists for obtaining fundamental
knowledge in insurance (costs: US$48,600); (ii) Insurance Broker AON (UK). Purpose: leaming
practice of taxation and accounting on insurance market, actuarial calculation, inspection
(US$29,200) and insurance seminars: Bonn (Germany) (US$6,810) and Gdansk (Poland)
(US$6,544).
2) Vulnerability Review
According to mutual understanding of the NBK and the World Bank, decision to conduct an
analysis of the 100 borrowers of the five commercial banks (Kazakhstan banking system
vulnerability review) was made. The banks were: OJSC Kazkommertzbank, OJSC Halyk Saving
Bank, OJSC TuranAlem, OJSC BankTsentrCredit and OJSC Eximbank. The Request for
Proposal was sent to five companies. Proposals were received from two companies. The contract
(US$125,000) between the NBK and the winner was signed on July 31, 2000. The consultant
carried out the analysis of the largest borrowers from July 31 to October 13, 2000. A revision of
the report has been completed.
"Proiect Implementation Assistance"
This component financed purchase of computer equipment for PIU and PIU staff training and
consultants' activities aiming at efficient Project implementation. Also the NBK specialists'
reference site visits (within the "Long -Term Payment System" component) were financed.
Within the component the following activities were organized:
* On May 23-26, 2000, the NBK specialists' visit to the Central Bank of Turkey within
"Inter-bank Payment System" tender.
* On May 30-June 8, 2000, the NBK specialists' reference site visits to the Central Bank of
Malta (Malta) and SKB Banka (Slovenia) within the "Banking Information System" tender.
* On September 18-29, 2000, PIU specialist training in ILO Training Center ("Intemational
Procurement Management", Turin, Italy).
* On February 19 - March 2, 2001, PIU specialist training in Crown Agents ("Project Cycle
Management" Worthing, UK).
* On March 5-16, 2001, PIU specialist training in Crown Agents ("Principals of Purchasing'
Worthing, UK).
* On March 19-30, 2001, PIU specialist training in ILO Training Center ("Financial
Management in the World Bank financed projects", Turin, Italy).
* On April 2-11, 2001, PIU specialists training in the World Bank Institute ('Basic
Procurement" Washington, USA).
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 23 -



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
10. Additional Information
Tax Administration Modernization Component/Proiect (TAMP)
Introduction
1.    At the request of the Kazak Government, the TAMP was added as a component to the
FEDP in October 1998 on the basis of a mini-appraisal that was carried out in February 1998.
US$ 17.3 million was allocated for the project.
2.    At project inception, it was agreed with the State Tax Committee (STC) that a sensible
balance should be kept between the business side (tax administration, audit, collections, taxpayer
services) and IT aspects of the project throughout its implementation. As early as end 1998 it was
clear that the business and the IT sides of tax administration had not progressed concurrently,
despite the functional reorganization work to improve the organization's design to feed into the
automation effort. It was very important that this policy be respected especially in the initial stages
of the project in order to avoid that decisions be made by the IT team without carefully weighing
the organizational impact of the decisions.
3.    The project was also originally conceived in two parts, the first to develop a software,
which could be implemented rapidly, and the second to develop a much more comprehensive
software which would run concurrently with the first and then smoothly take over from it. This
concept was to evolve due to the excellent work of the software firm, guided by the highly
competent and motivated team in the MSR (established in November 1998). The STC formulated
and implemented the reorganization and automation strategy envisaged in the project concept,
coordinating with the inputs from the USAID/Barents group. In order to keep the critical time
path, the Government chose to enter into an agreement with the Karaganda-based Plus Micro
company, which was already developing a revenue collection software package, to quickly
implement the first phase of the strategy agreed with the Bank. Adaptation and customization of
the software proceeded rapidly.
4.    Considering the rather short time, that is, from 1998 to end 2001, implementation
progress was impressive. TAMP achievements were possible due to (a) preparatory
organizational and system design work which had been carried out with the support of USAID
under the Fiscal Reform Project, the results of which the Government was willing to adopt, (b)
earlier useful trial work with the home-grown tax software development by Plus Micro, on which
further development work under the loan component could be built, and (c) a counterpart team,
both management and technical, up to and including the Minister of State Revenues himself, that
was eager to cooperate with the Bank in all stages of the project.
- 24 -



Implementation
5.    The TAMP experienced some initial teething problems, not the least of which was the
establishment of the PCU which would be responsible for a number of large IT procurement
contracts and would have to be fully conversant with World Bank procurement guidelines.
Coordination with the Committee for External Loans (CEL, later the Department of State
Borrowings, DSB), the official project implementation unit of the FEDP, which greatly influenced
administrative arrangements for project management and access to the operational funds allocated
to the TAMP, was eventually worked out. The biggest problem, however, remained with the
project for most of the implementation period, which was the small size of the team responsible
for its implementation. It was only in the last year that the MSR was able to engage an IT advisor
and an accountant/cashier to complement the team. The nomination of a new Director for the IT
Department also brought much needed additional manpower and expertise.
6.    Problems of a technical nature also cropped up but were dealt with in a practical manner.
The TAMP funds financed seven large contracts mainly for expert advice, software development,
and hardware and other equipment purchase. In parallel, the Government was financing the
expansion of the telecommunications network that would allow piloting of the new tax collection
system. The final number of pilot sites was six. The original plan had been for about 20. Due to
the lack of the necessary telecommunications link, the plan was subsequently reduced to two to
three sites, but after an improvement in the telecommunications services situation, the number was
moved back up to the final number of six which permitted the wider testing of the systems. This
flexibility exemplified the cooperation and general working relationship between the MSR/DSB
and the Bank.
Objectives Identified
7.    Referring again to the initial concem for the project, that is, that is would be an "IT
driven" operation, rather than one based on the business needs of tax administration, it became
clear that only the MSR could ensure that the focus remained on the business aspects, while at the
same time integrating all own and donor inputs into one, well-coordinated effort, given the
priorities of the TAMP, the USAID program, the prospective program of the EU TACIS project,
and other ongoing contributions, such as that of the British Know-how Fund.
8.    A major turning point which demonstrated that the Ministry was acutely aware of the
organization and management side of the MSR's improvement program became manifest at the
Tax Administration workshop held in January 2000. Originally, the aim of the workshop
discussed with the Bank team had been to support the objectives of the project, i.e., to increase
the efficiency and effectiveness of the country's tax administration by raising the sensitivity of the
main players, especially the higher management of the Ministry itself, to the major issues of the
TAMP. However, in late 1999, the MSR had embarked on a major effort to review the tax code
of the country, and its procedural aspects. This effort was premised on a realization that the tax
code, while the most modern in the CIS when it was introduced in 1995, had in the meantime
been encumbered by amendments, and, in some cases changes that seemed to be mutually
contradictory. The Ministry now wanted the workshop to focus on the broader agenda of the
- 25 -



controversial issues around the reformulation of the 1995 tax code. As it turned out, an
accelerated exchange of information and increased coordination between the MSR and the Bank
allowed the staging of a workshop to fulfill all needs. The MSR's most pressing priorities were
aired, and it became clear that the Ministry was looking to improve the Customs Administration
and considering the issues and possible benefits of integrating tax and customs administration
functions (e.g., creating a Large Taxpayer Unit for both Tax and Customs). The extemal experts
and other invitees (local business, NGOs, national press and members of Parliament), on their
side, had the opportunity to raise the critical areas in the existing tax code that needed clarification
and discuss the proposed design and rates of the VAT, among other topics. Taxpayer rights and
obligations, and, conversely, administrative powers and their limits, were also recognized as key
issues to be addressed by the Ministry's near-term agenda.
9.    The TAMP benefited greatly from this exercise. The software developer was kept busy
over the last year of the project integrating and reflecting in the software the changes in the new
Tax Code, and the Government ended up with an infinitely more useful product, the Integrated
Tax Information System (ITIS). The new tax administration software - a 100% Kazakh
creation, which represents the international state-of-the-art in software technology - has been
piloted intensively in the Karaganda oblast to determine its effectiveness in supporting the tax
administration and its user-friendliness. Thus the project moved from its original plan to one of a
"basic modernization" phase one (replacing the "short-term modernization" sub-component),
followed by an "expansion of functionality" second phase (replacing the former "long-term
modernization"). The MSR followed best practice in its implementation approach, with the tax
software being fully developed and piloted before being rolled out to the rest of country.
Sustainability
10.   There is no doubt of the sustainability of the TAMP-financed activities. The multiple
system development initiatives under way or planned at MSR, where the Bank-supported
Integrated Tax Information System is only one element, though complex, have thus far been
successful. The Ministry has already firmly set its sights on integrating multiple systems under the
term ITIS-2, including the introduction of electronic forms processing, the establishment of Call
Centers providing a help desk for taxpayers, and the computerization and integration of the
Customs and Excise functions. Tax administration modernization has been pushed forward
simultaneously on many fronts, and ITIS, as soon as it is fully operational, will help amplify gains
already achieved. It will allow the Ministry to turn its attention to working with the specific and
aggregated data for the benefit of effective tax collection, improved revenue forecasts and
increased ability for developing tax policy, and spend less staff energy on the administration/
collection process itself.
11.   The Ministry has made arrangements to safeguard the assets it has obtained through the
TAMP by entering into maintenance arrangements with the state-owned firm National
Information Technology (NIT) for a maintenance contract that will last through 2004 and will be
financed from local funds. One measure that will be implemented is to assign to NIT all first-level
assistance, including the training of certain local rayon office staff in basic hardware and software
maintenance, while external contractors could be called upon for more intricate problems which
- 26 -



go beyond the skills of NIT's technicians.
12.   One issue that could have a negative impact on the continuation of the MSR's work is that
of training. All training obligations under contract TAMP02 have been fulfilled. About 750 tax
office managers and future ITIS system administrators received this training. MSR's
Administration Department has expressed a high opinion of the quality of the training and the
ability of the trainees to serve as trainers for local office staff, as indeed was the intention.
However, reports on the experience on the ground, are that the transfer of ITIS skills from the
trained to the untrained staff has not always proceeded as expected. Clearly it will be of the
utmost importance that training for all future ITIS users via the intended knowledge transfer from
the previous trainees, or perhaps via additional training from the contractor must be assured, an
issue that will need to be addressed jointly by the Administration and IT Departments of the MSR,
and would also need the budgetary cooperation of the MoF.
13.   The project closed on December 31, 2001, but the work continues. US$17.22 of the
US$17.3 million allocated were disbursed.
- 27 -



Pension Reform ImDlementation Loan/Component (PRIL)
Introduction
As part of the restructuring of the FEDP in October 1998 the PRIL component was added with
total funding of US$12.7M. This component was developed to directly support the
implementation of the Pension Reform Adjustment Loan (PRAL) approved by the Bank on June
25, 1998. The decision to operate the PRIL as a component of the FEDP rather than as a free
standing loan came from the Govemment of Kazakhstan's wish to have loan funds for pension
implementation but their preference to consolidate the FEDP project rather than negotiate a new
loan.
The objective of this component was to support the Government's program for the
implementation of the 1997/1998 pension reforn legislation. The PRIL component was
sub-divided into six specific areas: (i) macro-economic policy component; (ii) regulatory structure
component; (iii) public administration component; (iv) information technology component; (v)
public information component; and (vi) project administration and managemnent component. The
component was designed with a four year disbursement plan.
Operation of the Component
A PCU was developed for the MLSP and was staffed with local staff plus international TA. The
initial focus of the PCU was in the development of programs that would assist the MLSP in its
attempts to meet the various tranche release conditions relating to pension reform imposed by the
PRAL. While this was very beneficial to the implementation of pension reform generally it was
not directly related to the component tasks of the PRIL.
The PRIL was developed prior to the implementation of the pension reform and at a time when
the new pension institutions were still in the development stage. While Bank staff could identify
the development needs it was less easy for the counterpart staff to recognize those needs. This
together with the Government's wish to introduce pension reform over a very limited time scale
led the pension institutions to find quick fix solutions to their problems as they arose. This did not
allow for a more analytical approach that would have been provided on a slower track by the
international TA that could clearly have been beneficial.
The two main new pension administrations, the State Pension Payment Center (SPPC) and the
State Accumulation Fund (SAF), quickly started to develop in their own ways outside of the
project. The SAF had access to significant implementation funds through the charges levied on
pension contribution and saw no need to seek funding from the project. The SPPC had an initial
supply of IT provided from Government funds and then were able to develop an adequate
computer system directly from their budget rather than seek project funding. On the main areas of
TA, policy development, the regulatory structure, and public information, the relevant institutions
were able to continue their work through a mixture of grant funds and Government budget funds.
USAID were very active in this area and the Bank closely coordinated activities with this and
- 28 -



other aid organizations.
There were three main reasons for the delays in disbursement which led ultimately to 80% of the
funds being returned. First frequent changes in Ministers (three during the three years of the
project) led to changes at Deputy Minister level including changes of the component director each
time. This resulted in delays while for long periods the Ministry was without Deputy Ministers
and to a lack of continuity as each successive Minister wished to learn about the project before
applying his/her own interpretation on what was required. Second the Government's
pronouncement that it would no longer borrow money for TA. This was taken in the first instance
as a complete ban on the acquisition of TA for current projects and caused a significant delay on
the procurement process. Third all Ministerial spending, including spending from loan funds, was
taken under the control of the yearly budget and each year spending had to be programmed into
the budget before the MLSP could proceed with any procurement. This led to delays because
there was insufficient money in the budget to keep pace with the procurement planned
expenditures. Finally because the pension administration was forced, by virtue of very tight
deadlines imposed by Government, to introduce a workable administration before the PRIL
project could provide the right level of background TA, the institutions were reluctant to admit
that they needed any further development once they were up and operating.
Towards the end of the project a more stable Ministerial management had been put in place and a
number of TA packages had either been procured or were in the process of being procured. The
MLSP were then quite focused on making good use of the project funds and were wishing to
have the Government apply for a two year extension to the FEDP to allow them to continue the
work. The Government however did not think this was appropriate or necessary and the project
was allowed to close with a number of TA packages still in place.
Meeting the Objectives
If the component is seen only in the context of meeting the very narrow objects set out in the plan
of work then clearly much of the work was not undertaken and therefore the objectives were not
met as a result of the project. However if the PRIL is seen in the context of the good operation of
the pension reformn then the fact that the PRIL was in place and was supervised on a regular basis
and did provide some very significant assistance then it could be said that the PRIL indirectly had
an important role in the development of the pension administration. Many of the early policy
refinements of the pension legislation came about as a direct result of input from the PRAL and
PRIL Bank teams working on supervision missions. Likewise much of the administrative design
of the SPPC and SAF came about as a result of the work of the supervision teams. Indeed the
USAID team charted the effective flow of pension contributions through the SPPC and found that
all the peaks coincided with PRIL supervision missions - a very practical and positive impact. The
successful introduction of pension reform in Kazakhstan cannot be attributed to the work of the
PRIL component, however the fact that 20% of the funds were very successfully disbursed and
that for a period of four years the Bank provided a high level of supervision and TA can be seen
as a significant meeting of the broad objectives.
- 29 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators
Outcome/impact indicators*
Indicator                  Projected in SAR/PAD                            Actual/Latest Estimates
Pnvatization assistance,   Support the pnvate sector and Govemment        Provision of pnvanzation program management assistance
Phase It                   institutions in continuing privatization       (which was a pre-condition) helped to develop normative
basis and procedures used by SPC in pnvatization process,
as well as a module for pre-pnvatization activities and
requirements to pnvatization documentation. Assistance in
restructunng of enterpnses helped to prepare several of them
for subsequent pnvatizanon. The project assistance was not
however utilized for any case-by-case privatization
Restructunng Advisory Unit  Prepare enterpnse tumaround and liquidation    The project helped to establish a methodology and
approach for viability analysis, preparation of
restructunng and liquidation program which were
successfully used in activities of the Agency on
Restructuring and Liquidation of Insolvent Enterpnses, the
successor of the Restructunng Advisory Unit By
mid- 1998, of 598 insolvent enterpnses, the financial status
of 30 enterprises had improved, 233 were proposed for
liquidation, 57 for sale of state shares, 89 for restructunng,
15 for rehabilitation, 20 for financial rehabilitation and 9
for reorganization.
Managing Study Tours       Transfer modem market-economic know-how to      The project funded tramining activities gave strong impulse
enterprnse managers                            to restructunng led by the management and development
of fumiture and food industries in Kazakhstan. More than
40% of enterprises, executives of which partcipated in the
program, improved their operations, many of them
established partner relations with westem companies
Intemational Business School continues to provide
business tramining and introduced MBA programs.
Rehabilitation Trust       Resolve bad debts                               The removal of non-performance loans and isolation of
distressed enterpnses from the banking system, minimizing
the allocation of further resources to them, contnbuted
immensely to the healthy development of the financtal
sector. The Rehabilitation Bank also helped the enterpnses
on the restructunng process, as well as initiated liquidation
of 4 insolvent enterpnses.
Commercial Banking          Develop sound commercial banks which would then  Accreditation procedure motivated commercial banks to
Development;               also be able to finance restructunng and new    review their operations, to introduce intemational
Bank Supervision 11        investments.                                    accounting practices and external audit, prepare strategic
development plans and introduce Intemational Standards
Bank pnnciples. Two regional banks participated in the
twinning program. Banking supervision is among the most
advanced among of the FSU countnes.
Long-Term Payment System   Ensure efficient, rapid and secure payments within  The existing payment system is sufficient for Kazakhstan,
Kazakhstan                                      meets intemational standards and needs only minor
modification Therefore, the project funds were not needed
for its further development. Procurement of the banking
application software was cancelled.
Note: The indicators relate to the FEDP subcomponents.
- 30 -



Output indicators
Indicator                   Projection in PSR (1998)                        Actual/Latest Estimates
Pnvatization assistance.    Substantally completed sale of at least 3 case-by-case  I company benefited from pre-pnvatization assistance, but
Phase 11                    pnvatizatlon with project assistance.           was not privatized due to ecological problems No
companies were pnvatized with the project's direct
assIstance. However, enterpnses that passed through
restructunng with the project's assistance were pnvaiized
at a later stage
Restructunng Advisory Unit  (I) Formulation of plan for restructunng and   (I) The project financed preparation of viability analysis of
pnvatization, or liquidation, by about 15 firms with the 5 enterpnses with preparation of restructuring or liquidation
project's assistance,                           plans, and marketing studies for 4 enterprises, 28 enterpnses
(2) Start of actual implementation of at least half these  were examined by the Rehabilitation Bank before
restructunng or liquidation plans;              Restructunng Advisory Unit was established.
(3) Upgrading of skills of at least 30 local individuals in (2) The Unit implemented liquidations of two non-viable
enterpnse tumaround or liquidation by working jointly  enterpnses,
with foreign experts on the advisory teams      (3) A study tour to Poland (10 people), joint work with
foreign consultants of 3 local consulting companies and 3
individuals.
Managing Study Tours       (I) About 160 managers spending at least three weeks  (I) 158 managers participated in study tours;
each studying enterprises on-site in market economies,  (2) 254 management executives were trained in seminars;
(2) About 260 managers receiving classroom training in (3) 9 post-training conferences were hold and materials
business planning and enterprise restructunng;  distnbuted;
(3) 10 subsector reports reflecting the tour teams'  (4) A model of study tour program, was recommended for
findings distrbuted locally;                    replication in other FSU countries
(4) A model for effective manager study tours established
for replication in Kazakhstan and other FSU countnes.
Rehabilitation Trust       (I) At least 25 major insolvent enterpnses allocated to  (I) 46 insolvent enterprises were transferred to the
the Rehabilitation Trust;                       Rehabilitation Bank;
(2) Within four years after submission to the   (2) 4 insolvent enterpnses were liquidated, including large
Rehabilitation Trust, at least % of these enterpnses would coal mining operations in Karaganda region, 14 enterpnses
ither have been liquidated, or would have carred our  restructured and 26 enterpnses were pnvatized or
substantial "passive" restructunng, strongly improved  transferred under management contracts.
their cash flow, and initiated or completed their
pnvatization
Commercial Banking         (I) At least 2 new, assisted banks reaching intemational O) 2 banks - Tsesna Bank (Astana) and NefteBank (Aktau)
Development                 tandards in operations,                        - received assistance under the program,
2) At least one formerly specialized, assisted bank  (2) 2 formerly specialized banks (Halyk Saving Bank and
aving caried out comprehensive operational     TuranAlem Bank) passed through the accreditation
estructunng, enabling it to conduct its core operanons  procedure and now work in compliance with Intemational
fficiently and in a way that enhanced sound competition Banking Standards Both banks have been pnvatized.
in the banking sector.
Bank Supervision 11         1) 30 bank examiners trained under phase I and 11;  (1) 18 examiners passed through language training course;
(2) 25 insurance supervisors passed through training;
(3) The project financed vulnerability analysis of 20
borrowers of 5 commercial banks.
Long-Term Payment System   (1) Domestic payments substantially accelerated, with  |(1-2) Disbursements were limited to consulting services for
same-day finality of senlements and real-time processing preparation of the bidding documentanon, appraisal of the
f high-value transactions;                     existing payment system and to study tour to central banks
(2) New system permitting the use of significantly wider The existng payment system is sufficient for Kazakhstan,
nge of payment instruments than current system;  therefore, no further developments to "intenm" payment
(3) General commercial banking software provided to  system were made with project's assistance;
NBK and at least 3 further banks                (3) Cancelled.
Project Implementation      (I) At least 8 local PIU staff trained in procurement  (1) 8 local PIU staff received training in general
Assistance                  and/or disbursement.                            procurement.
Note: The indicators relate to the FEDP subcomponents.
- 31 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cornponent                Appraisal       After 1998         Actual            Actual as
Estimate (i)   Restructuring    Disbursements     Percentage of 1998
(ii)             (iii)          Restructuring
PARTA. Enterprise Sector
Rform                                                          _                       _
1. Pnvatization Assistance          5.20            2.10             1.52                 72
2. Restructuring Advisory Unit      10.91            1.45             0.82                57
3. Study Tour Program for           2.25             1.80             1.74                97
Enterpnse Managers
4. National Commission on                            0.20             0.07                35
Secunties
PART B. Financial Sector
Reform
1. Rehabilitation Trust             2.50            2.30              2.17                94
2. Commercial Banking               16.99            6.25             1.41                23
Development
3. Institution Building for On-Site  1.31            1.20             0.53                44
Bank Supervision
4 Long-term payment system          26.95            15.00            0.48                 3
5. Pension Reform System                            12.70             2.46                19
PART C. Project Implementation       1.63            1.35             0.65                49
Assistance
PartD. Tax Administration                           17 30             17.22               99
System
Refunding of PPF                                                      0.03
Contingency                         5 17             2.00
Total (IBRD, donors and             72.91           63.65             29.10               46
Government financing)         I
Cancellation           I_I _                                          34.55
(i) Includes the IBRD loan, donors, and Government financing.
(ii) Reflects restructuring of the IBRD loan and includes the donor financing that had been made available at that time
Allocation for Part C included US$0.6 for the tax component and US$0.75 for NBK.
(iii) Reflects IBRD (US$27.45) and donor financing (US$1.65M). The Government contribution is not reflected.
Actuals for Part B.5 and Part D contain also part of the actual implementation assistance; the remaining part is in "Part C".
- 32 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
At Appraisal (i)
Expenditure Categories                        Procurement Method
ICB         NCB         Other        NBF           Total
1. Works              0 00         0 00       0.00          0.00          0 00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods              32.50        0.00        2.50         3.60           38.60
(32.50)     0.00        (2.30)       (0)            (34.80)
3 Services            0.00         0 00        27.70        2.40           30.10
(0.00)      (0.00)      (23.30)      (0.00)         (23.30)
4. Training           0.00         0.00        2.40         0.30           2.70
(0.00)      (0.00)      (2.40)       (0.00)         (2.40)
5. Refinancing of PPF  0.00        0.00        1.50         0.00           1.50
(0.00)      (0.00)      (1.50)       (0.00)         (1.50)
Total                 32.50        0.00        34 10        6.30           72.90
(32.50)     (0.00)      (29.50)      (0.00)         (62.00)
(i) Without the pension and tax components and the NCS subcomponent which were introduced in 1998.
Actual/Latest Estimate
Expenditure Categories                        Procurement Method
ICB         NCB         Other        NBF           Total
1. Works              0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00           0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods               16.60       0.00        0.45         0.00           17.05
(16.60)     (0.00)      (0.45)       (-)            (17.05)
3. Services           0.00         0.00        8.95         1.25           10.20
(0.00)      (0.00)      (8.95)       (-)            (8.95)
4. Training            0.00        0 00        1.45         0.40           1.75
(0.00)      (0.00)      (1.45)       (-)            (1.45)
5. Contingency        0 00         0.00        0.00         0.00           0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                  16.60       0.00        10.85        1.65           29.10
(16 60)     (0.00)      (10.85)      (-)           (27.45)
- 33 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 34 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/1992                     1   Taskleader
I   FSD
3    Consultants
3/1993                      1    Task leader
2    FSD/PSD
I   FSD
2    PSD
3    Consultants
5/1993                      1   Task leader
I   Country unit
I   PSD
I   FSD
4    other Bank staff
3    Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/1994                      1    Task leader
5    Other Bank staff
Supervision
8/1995                       1   Task leader
I   Country unit
3   PSD
3   Consultants
2/1996                       1   Banking expert
3/1996                       1   IT                                U             S
I   PSD/FSD
I   FSD
10/1996                      1  IT                                 S             S
I   PSD/FSD
I   FSD
4/1997                       1   PSD/FSD                           U             S
I   Banking consultant
I   Operations
2/1998                       3   IT                                U             U
2   Operations
I   Tax
I   Country officer
2/1999                       1   Team leader/PSD                   S             S
I   Operations
12/1999                     1   Team leader/PSD                    S             S
5/2000                       1   IT                                S             S
11/2000                     3   FSD                                S             S
I   Operations
6/2001                       1   Team leader/operations            S             S
I   FSD
- 35 -



I   Procurement
ICR
11/2001                        1    Team leader/operations               U               S
I     Banking consultant
I     Operations
The Bank input relates to the Financial and Enterprise Sector Reform components (excluding the tax and pension components).
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                      553
Supervision                                                               1,013
ICR                                                                         90
Total                                                                     1,656
Note: The Bank input relates to the Financial and Enterprise Sector Reform components (excluding the tax and pension
components).
The current MIS does not provide information on SWs.
- 36 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                          O H  O SU O M    O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  OSU*M       O N  O NA
L Physical                               O H  OSU*M       O N  O NA
O Financial                              O H  O SU * M    O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  * SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
D Environmental                          O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
3I Gender                         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
0 Private sector development             0 H  O SU * M    O N  0 NA
OI Public sector management              0 H  O SU *M     0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                0 H   O SU O M    0 N  * NA
- 37 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
L Lending                                           OHS OS       OU     OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS       Ou     OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S     * U    0 HU
n Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O u   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       O  U   O HU
- 38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
BTO from the last supervision/ICR mission dated from November 2001 is in IRIS.
- 39 -



IMAGIN-G
Report No.:         24186
Type:     tCR



