Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3867 KZ
                               Loan Agreement
                (Financial and Enterprises Development Project)
                                   between
                           REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                              Dated July 31, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3867 KZ
                                LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
KAZAKHSTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    (B)   Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the Project will be
carried out by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan
(NBK) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to NBK the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
Page  2
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
NBK;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
    which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Banking Development Project" means a project to
finance, pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing Agreement, the
restructuring, modernization and strengthening of operational
and financial capabilities of the Qualified Bank utilizing the
proceeds of the Banking Development Sub-loan, selected in
accordance with the procedures and accreditation criteria set
forth in Parts A and B of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
    (b)   "Banking Development Sub-loan" means a foreign currency
sub-loan made or proposed to be made by NBK, pursuant to a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, out of the proceeds of the Loan
to a Qualified Bank for a Banking Development Project.
    (c)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy.
    (d)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
    (e)   "NBK" means the National Bank of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, the Borrower's central bank established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law on the National Bank
of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated April 13, 1993, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
    (f)   "NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and NBK pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
    (g)   "Qualified Banks" means two medium and two large size
banking institutions registered and accredited in the territory
of the Borrower and selected in accordance with the procedures
and accreditation criteria set forth in Parts A and B of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement to carry out the Banking
Development Project.
    (h)   "PIUs" means the project implementation units
established and maintained by the Borrower within MOF, MOE, and
NBK and referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  3
    (i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and NBK of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
    (j)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 17, 1995 and May
16, 1995  between the Borrower and the Bank.
    (k)   "RAU" means the restructuring advisory unit established
and maintained by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement.
    (l)   "Rehabilitation Trust" means the debt resolution
institution established and maintained by the Borrower pursuant
to Presidential Decree No. 2154, dated March 29, 1995.
    (m)   "SCSP" means the Borrower's State Committee for State
Property or any successor thereto.
    (n)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
    (o)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means any agreement
between NBK and a Qualified Bank, referred to in Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, concerning the financing of Banking Development Project
by NBK, and such term includes all schedules to such Subsidiary
Financing Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of sixty two million dollars
($62,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars three special deposit accounts in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
Page  4
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
       (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.08. NBK is designated as representative of the
Page  5
Borrower in respect of Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C of the Project
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)   shall carry out Parts A, B.1 and C(a), (b) and
                (c) of the Project with due diligence and
                efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
                administrative and financial practices and shall
                provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                facilities, services and other resources required
                for such Parts of the Project; and
         (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its
                other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
                Borrower shall cause NBK to perform all NBK's
                obligations set forth in the Project Agreement,
                shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                including the provision of funds, facilities,
                services and other resources, necessary or
                appropriate to enable NBK to perform such
                obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
                taken any action which would prevent or interfere
                with such performance.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   carry out Parts A, B.1 and C(a), (b) and (c) of
                the Project in accordance with the Implementation
                Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
                Agreement; and
         (ii)   establish and maintain the RAU, as an independent
                unit with its own budget, in a manner and with
                staffing satisfactory to the Bank and appropriate
                for the carrying out Part A.2 of the Project.
    (c)   The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories (1) (b) and (c),
(2) (c) and (e), and (3) (c) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to NBK under a
subsidiary loan agreement (NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and NBK, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which
shall include the terms and conditions governing, inter alia:
          (i)   the carrying out by NBK of Parts B.2, B.3, B.4
                and C(d) of the Project with diligence and
                efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
                administrative, financial, and banking practices
                and the applicable provisions of the Project
                Agreement;
         (ii)   the utilization of funds and procurement of goods
                and consultants' services required for Parts B.2,
                B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the Project;
         (iii)  the maintenance of records and accounts adequate to
                reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
                the resources and expenditures related to the
                procurement of goods and consultants' services required
                for Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the Project and the
Page  6
                auditing of such records and accounts in accordance with
                appropriate auditing standards;
         (iv)   assumption of foreign exchange risk;
          (v)   principal amount to be lent by the Borrower to
                NBK, the currency in which such a loan is to be
                made, the interest rate and other payments to be
                made by NBK to the Borrower, and maturity and
                grace periods applicable to such a loan; and
         (vi)   the accreditation criteria pursuant to which NBK
                shall select the Qualified Banks and the terms
                and conditions pursuant to which NBK shall make
                the Banking Development Sub-loans to the
                Qualified Banks under the Subsidiary Financing
                Agreements.
    (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the NBK
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
Parts A, B.1 and C(a), (b), and (c) of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
    (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
    (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
    Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition (or rights related to
land), respectively) in respect of Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d)
of the Project shall be carried out by NBK pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A, B.1 and C(a),
(b) and (c) of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
Page  7
                the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors satisfactory to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year, the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account or payment out of the Special Accounts
                was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   NBK shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that NBK will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (c)   The Borrower's Law on the National Bank of the Republic
of Kazakhstan shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of NBK to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of NBK or for the suspension of its
operations.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  8
    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower and NBK; and
    (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and NBK.
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
    (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NBK, and is legally binding upon NBK in accordance
with its terms; and
    (b)   that the NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NBK and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NBK in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          97 Ablai-Khan Av.
          Almaty, 480091
          Republic of Kazakhstan
                                         Telex:
                                           251 245 FILIN
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
Page  9
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
                       By /s/ Touleoutai Souleimenov
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated                % of
                             (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Goods for:                             )
                                           )
    (a) Parts A.2 and               120,000)        100% of foreign
        A.3 of the                         )        expenditures,
        Project                            )        100% of local
                                           )        expenditures,
                                           )        (ex-factory
                                           )        cost) and 75%
    (b) Parts B.4 and            22,850,000)        of local
        C(d) of the                        )        expenditures for
        Project                            )        other items
                                           )        procured locally
    (c) Part B.2 of               8,000,000)
        the Project                        )
(2) Consultants'
    services for:
    (a)  Part A.1 of              4,925,000         100%
         the Project
    (b)  Parts A.2 and           10,035,000         100%
         A.3 of the
         Project
    (c)  Parts B.4 and            1,545,000         100%
         C(d) of the
         Project
    (d)  Part B.1 of               1,850,000        100%
Page  10
         the Project
    (e)  Part B.2 of               4,000,000        100%
         the Project
    (f)  Parts C(a), (b)             546,000        100%
         and (c) of the
         Project
(3) Training for:
    (a)  Part A.1 of                  78,000        100%
         the Project
    (b)  Parts A.2 and             1,102,000        100%
         A.3 of the
         Project
    (c)  Part B.3 of                 999,000        100%
         the Project
(4) Refunding of                   1,500,000        Amounts due
    Project                                         pursuant to
    Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                         of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                    4,450,000
                                  __________
          TOTAL                   62,000,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
    (a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
$6,200,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and
(3) of this Schedule on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1994;
    (b)   expenditures in respect of Category (2) (d) of this
Schedule, unless: (i) the Rehabilitation Trust has been duly
established in accordance with Presidential Decree No. 2154,
dated March 29, 1995 and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
and (ii) the Borrower has adopted legal and regulatory
enactments, satisfactory to the Bank, governing out-of-court
settlement of debt claims and necessary for the successful
functioning of the Rehabilitation Trust; and
    (c)   expenditures in respect of Categories (1) (c) and (2)
(e) of this Schedule, unless the Banking Development Project
concerned has been approved in accordance with the procedures,
accreditation criteria and on terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods and services under contracts not exceeding $10,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  11
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to facilitate the
enterprise sector reform, improve banking services, and
strengthen the regulatory framework and institutional
capabilities of the Borrower's financial system.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Enterprise Sector Reform
1.  Privatization Assistance
    Implementation of the Borrower's privatization program
through the provision of consulting services and training.
2.  Restructuring Advisory Unit
    Restructuring, privatization and liquidation assistance to
enterprises located within the territory of the Borrower
through the provision of consulting services, training and
goods to the RAU.
3.  Study Tour Program for Enterprise Managers
    Strengthening of the management, financial, and marketing
capabilities of managers of enterprises located within the
territory of the Borrower through the provision of training and
consulting services.
Part B:   Financial Sector Reform
1.  Rehabilitation Trust
    Assistance in the management, restructuring and liquidation
of indebted enterprises located within the territory of the
Borrower through the provision of consulting services, training
and goods for the operation of the Rehabilitation Trust.
2.  Commercial Banking Development
    Development and strengthening of the commercial banking
sector through the provision of goods and consulting services
under Banking Development Projects.
3.  Institution Building for On-Site Bank Supervision
    Strengthening of the on-site bank supervision capabilities
of NBK through the provision of training.
4.  Long-Term Payment System
    Development of an effective and efficient payment system
through the provision of goods, consulting services and
training.
Part C:   Project Implementation Assistance
    Strengthening of the Borrower's Project implementation
capabilities through the provision of consulting services,
training, and goods to: (a) MOF; (b) SCSP; (c) MOE; and (d)
NBK.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.
Page  12
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
    beginning January 15, 2001
    through January 15, 2012                   2,585,000
And on July 15, 2012                           2,545,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
Page  13
More than 15 years before                            1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract.  The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.2 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Kazakhstan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items for specialized goods with a
limited number of suppliers, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis
of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from a list of
potential suppliers eligible under the Guidelines broad enough
to ensure competitive prices, and in accordance with procedures
set forth in Sections III, paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $800,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers from at least three different
Page  14
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.  Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are of proprietary
nature, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may
be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract awarded under inter-
national competitive bidding procedures referred to in Part A.1
hereof, limited international bidding procedures referred to in
Part C.1 hereof, direct shopping procedures referred to in Part
C.4 hereof, and the first two contracts awarded under
international shopping procedures referred to in Part C.2
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Accounts in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Accounts, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
Page  15
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms, estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants, estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to
prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms, raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants, raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The following agencies of the Borrower shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, implement the following parts of the Project,
subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule 5:
    Agency                         Parts of the Project
    SCSP                           Parts A.1 and C(b)
    MOE                            Parts A.2, A.3 and C(c)
    MOF                            Parts B.1 and C(a)
    NBK                            Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d)
2.  NBK shall also be responsible for the procurement and
disbursement of consulting services, training and goods under
Parts C(a), C(b) and C(c) of the Project, and the MOE shall
also be responsible for the procurement and disbursement of
consulting services, training and goods under Part B.1 of the
Project.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                             Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 2(a)
and 3(a) in the case of Special Account A, Categories 1(a),
2(b), 2(d) and 3(b) in the case of Special Account B, and
Categories 1(b), 1(c), 2(c), 2(e), 2(f) and 3(c) in the case of
Special Account C, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount
equivalent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account A pursuant to paragraph
3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $50,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $0.5 million;
(ii) an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account B pursuant
Page  16
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Accountplus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
of $1.5 million; and (iii) an amount equivalent to $300,000 to
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account C pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4.0 million.
2.  Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Accounts has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the appropriate Special
Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Accounts at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Accounts for eligible
                expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
Page  17
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
or
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Accounts shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
