LOAN NUMBER 3867 KZ
Project Agreement
(Financial and Enterprises Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
Dated J, 3V              1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3867 KZ
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      4                    1995, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
NATIONAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN (NBK).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Kazakhstan (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty two million dollars ($62,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only
on condition that NBK agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NBK, the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be relent to NBK on the terms and
conditions set forth in said NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS NBK, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NBK declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and
C(d) of the Project, and be responsible for the procurement and
disbursement of consulting services, training and goods financed
under Parts C(a), (b) and (c) of the Project, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,


﻿-2-
financial, and banking practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the
Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and NBK shall otherwise
agree, NBK shall carry out Part B.2 of the Project and to this end,
shall lend Banking Development Sub-loans to the Qualified Banks, in
accordance with the procedures, accreditation criteria, and terms
and conditions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Project Agreement and
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing Agreements in
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and NBK and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and shall not, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services requir,d for
Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) NBK shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of
the General Conditions, NBK shall:
(i)    prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of
the Project;
(ii)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan;
and


﻿-3-
(iii) thereafter, carry out said plan with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate practices, taking into. account the
Bank's comments thereon.
Section 2.04. NBK shall duly perform all its obligations under
the NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, NBK shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) NBK shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part(s)
B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the NBK Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   NBK shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by NBK of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the NBK Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Operational and Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. NBK shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
banking practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.01. (a) NBK shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   NBK shall:
(i)    have  its   records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal   year  audited,   in   accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently


﻿-4-
applied, by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of NBK thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify NBK thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or


﻿-5-
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For NBK:
National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan
21 Kocktem-3
Almaty 480070
Republic of Kazakhstan
Telex:
251216 NGBKS SU
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NBK, or by NBK on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Chairman
of NBK or such other person or persons as the Chairman of NBK shall
designate in writing, and NBK shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By          LAj u4ov) 4v1av?3
A     Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
NATIONAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
By I        Tou ekoukV    So    1-  V)ov
Authorized Representative


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procedures, Accreditation Criteria and
Terms and Conditions of Banking Development Projects
Part A:     Procedures
1.    No expenditures for goods, consultants' services and training
required for a Banking Development Project shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless: (i) the Bank has
reviewed and issued a no-objection with respect to the Banking
Development Project before the Banking Development Project is
approved by NBK; and (ii) expenditures under the Banking Development
Sub-loan for such a Banking Development Project shall have been made
not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received the information required under paragraph 2
of Part A of this Schedule in respect of such a Banking Development
Project.
2.    Qualified Banks shall be accredited by NBK on the basis of,
inter alia, the accreditation criteria set forth in Part B of this
Schedule and the results of the diagnostic studies performed by
reputable international auditing firms and following the Bank's
review of and no-objection of the proposed Qualified Bank and the
basis for their selection.
3.    Following the accreditation of the Qualified Banks by NBK, NBK
shall execute a Subsidiary Financing Agreement with each Qualified
Bank, giving NBK the legal rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank and NBK and containing, inter alia, the terms and
conditions set forth in Part C of this Schedule 1.
Part B:     Accreditation Criteria
1.    The Banking Development Sub-loans shall be made only to
banking institutions selected, evaluated and accredited in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank. The accreditation
criteria shall include the following, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to
time to achieve the Project objectives:
(a)   the banking institutions' capital to weighted assets
ratio, liquidity, diversification of risk, foreign exchange
exposure, classification of risk assets and level of provisions;


﻿-8-
(b)   the banking institutions' commitment and ability to
implement an institutional and automation development plan and to
undergo annual audits in accordance with generally accepted
international accounting standards;
(c)   the banking institutions' managerial autonomy     and
adherence to satisfactory accounting and reporting standards;
(d)   the banking institutions' adherence to satisfactory
financial, organizational and efficiency performance standards;
(e)   the banking institutions' commitment and ability to
implement sound banking practices and private sector orientation and
to enter into a satisfactory twinning arrangement with qualified
foreign banking institutions; and
(f)   the minimum percentage of foreign ownership of the
banking institutions.
Part C:     Terms and Conditions
1.    Each  Subsidiary  Financing Agreement   shall require   the
Qualified Bank to, inter alia:
(a)   carry out and operate the Banking Development Project
with due diligence and efficiency under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers, and in accordance with sound technical, financial, banking,
commercial and managerial standards;
(b)   maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial conditions, including separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect all resources and expenditures related to the
Investment Project;
(c)   have its records, accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles   consistently   applied,  by   independent  auditors
satisfactory to NBK, and furnish to NBK not later than six (6)
months after the end of each such year certified copies of its
financial statements for such year so audited and the report of such
audit by the auditors of such scope and such detail as NBK shall
have reasonably requested (which report shall include an analysis of


﻿- 9 -
the Qualified Bank's performance, as measured by the performance
indicators satisfactory to NBK and the Bank, which shall include,
inter   alia,   commercial,   technical,  operational,   banking,
administrative and financial indicators);
(d)   procure the goods and services to be financed by the
Banking Development Sub-loans in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement and to use such goods and services
exclusively in the carrying out of the Banking Development Project;
(e)   allow NBK, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to inspect any relevant
records and documents;
(f)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business and banking practice;
(g)   assume the foreign exchange risk between the Dollar and
the currency of the Borrower;
(h)   prepare and promptly furnish to NBK, for forwarding to
the Bank, if so requested by the Bank, all such information as the
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Qualified
Bank and to the benefits to be derived from the Banking Development
Project;
(i)   give NBK the right to suspend or terminate the right of
the Qualified Bank to the use of the proceeds of the Banking
Development Sub-loan upon failure by such Qualified Bank to perform
its obligations under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
(j)   at the conclusion of the Banking Development Project,
submit to NBK, in a manner and by date satisfactory to the NBK and
the Bank, a Banking Development Project completion report.
2.    Each Banking Development Sub-loan shall: (i) be denominated
and be repayable semiannually (principal and interest) in Dollars;
(ii) carry an interest rate of the 10-year U.S. Treasury Note, as
reported by a generally recognized market information service
satisfactory to the Bank on the first business day at the
commencement of each of the specified periods, plus two percent
(2%), adjusted semiannually; (iii) require the payment of a loan


﻿- 10 -
commitment charge on the principle amount of the Banking Development
Sub-loan not withdrawn within sixty (60) days after the date of
signing of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, at the rate equal to
the rate of the commitment charge payable by the Borrower to the
Bank pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement; (iv) be issued
for a maximum maturity period of ten (10) years, with up to four (4)
years grace period for the repayment of the principal of the Banking
Development Sub-loan; and (v) be equal to no more than $3,000,000 or
the capital of the Qualified Bank, whichever is lower.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE          i
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


