Document of
FILE COPy    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2289-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK TO BE GUARANTEED BY
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE
PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION (PISO)
PROJECT
April 11, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =     P 7.50 /1
P 1             =     US$0.133
P 1 million           US$133,300
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
BOI       -  Board of Investment
DBP       -  Development Bank of the Philippines
IGLF      -  Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
NEDA      -  National Economic Development Authority
PICA      -  Private Investment Company for Asia (PICA) S.A.
PISO      -  Philippine Investments Systems Organization
PDCP      -  Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
PNB       -  Philippines National Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
/1 This is the exchange rate that prevailed at the time of apraisal in
July/August 1977. The current exchange rate is $1 = P 7.40. As the
difference is not likely to affect significantly the project, the figures
have not been revised.



Foa oFnCL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION (PISO) PROJECT
LOAkN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Philippine National Bank (PNB)
Beneficiary:            Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO)
Guarantor:              Republic of the Philippines
Amount:                 $15 million equivalent
Terms:                  The proposed loan will bear interest at 7.50% p.a.
Flexible amortization to conform substantially to the
aggregate of the repayment schedules applicable to the
specific investment projects financed out of the
proceeds of the proposed loan.
Relending Terms:        PNB would relend the proceeds of the proposed loan to
PISO at an interest rate of 7.50% plus a handling fee
of 0.75% p.a., on the outstanding amount, but otherwise
on the same terms as those for the Bank loan. PISO
would onlend to sub-borrowers at an interest rate of
12-14% p.a. (including all service fees) for a maximum
term of 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years.
Prolect                 The project is designed to assist the Philippine
Description:          Government in realizing its objective of expanding and
diversifying the institutional capacity of financial
intermediaries capable of mobilizing and allocating
medium- and long-term resources to development projects
in the industrial sector. In particular, it would
develop the capacity of PISO, a private financial insti-
tutiLon, to initiate and expand its medium- and long-term
lencling operations. The proposed loan will be used by
PISO for making sub-loans to finance foreign exchange
requirements of projects mainly in manufacturing.
In addition to the institutional improvements for which
this project provides, there are a number of financial
and industrial sector issues which the Government
wouLd need to address within the next few years. The
effectiveness of PISO in mobilizing and allocating
financial (particularly local) resources will, to an
important degree, depend on the policy adjustments
which the Government makes in the coming years. Apart
from these broader sectoral concerns, there are no
special risks associated with the project.
Ths dtocument ha a restricted dstribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfofmance
of theif official dutiea Its contenu may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



Estimated
Disbursements:                           ($ million)
Bank FY        79         80         81
Annual                                     4.4        8.2        2.4
Cummulative                                4.4       12.6       15.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:                No. 1900-PH dated April 3, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
TO BE GUARANTEED BY THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION (PISO) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Philippine NationaL Bank with the guarantee of the Republic of the
Philippines for the equivalent of $15.0 million. The loan would be at an
interest rate of 7.50% p.a. The proceeds of the loan would be relent to the
Philippine Investment Systems Organization (PISO) at an interest rate of 7.50%
plus a handling fee of 0.75% on the outstanding amount, but otherwise on the
same terms as those of the Bank loan, for onlending to specific productive
enterprises. The loan would be repaid in accordance with the composite amorti-
zation schedules of PISO's subloans which will have a maximum repayment period
of 15 years, including a maximum grace period of three years. Sub-borrowers
would assume the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippine in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under Secretary's
Memorandum PHL77-2 on October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled The
Philippines:  Priorities and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was
previously distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less than
what might have been achieved if the country's considerable natural and human
resources had been utilized more effectively. The benefits of growth were
also distributed relatively unevenly, both with respect to regions and income
classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated food deficits were experienced. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the population
and labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Poor export
performance combined with the heavy import dependence of domestic industry
led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been significant.
In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly,
exports and imports of goods and services were roughly equal, and the shares
of public and private fixed investment in GNP were stable at still relatively
low levels. Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher
prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand, agricultural
production rebounded strongly from the natural disasters of the previous
/1 This section of the report is the same as that of the Rural Electrification
Project (SecM/78-63), which was approved by the Executive Directors on
April 4, 1978.



-2-
year, and the balance of payments registered a substantial current account
surplus. The export-led income boom of 1973 was followed by an investment
boom. The resulting high investment rate, together with favorable sugar
prices, temporarily sheltered the economy from the impact of the oil price
increase in late 1973 and the following world recession, and real GNP growth
was maintained at 6% in 1974-75. The first half of the 1970s also saw
significant structural changes in the economy, the most important of which
were an increase in the level of public investment, financed in large part
by a greater tax effort, a recovery in export growth, a shift of the domestic
terms of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the population
growth rate.
5.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier
declines in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external
situation dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975, and as a
result the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP, and the overall balance
of payments deficit to $500 million. Thus, the necessity of restoring balance
to the external accounts was superimposed on the Government's longer-term
objectives of faster economic growth and a better distribution of its benefits.
To maintain the momentum of growth and investment, the Government adopted a
policy of increasing capital inflows in the near term to finance the resulting
expanded current account deficits while accelerating export growth in the
longer term. In 1976-77, the economy - led by exports, public investment,
agriculture and construction - has continued to grow at 6% per year. Unfor-
tunately, much of the stimulus from an expansion in export volume was offset
by further deterioration in the terms of trade. However, inflation, which
reached a peak of 31% in 1974 as a result of externally generated pressure on
domestic prices, has slowed to a rate of about 7% because of the deceleration
in international inflation and a conservative monetary-fiscal policy.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
recently set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call
for further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater selfsufficiency in food and energy, strengthening the balance of
payments, and increased development in rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes strategies for development in each of the country's thirteen regions.
In general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the
Bank's basic economic report, although investment, manufacturing output, and
exports are projected to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It
should be feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms
of trade stabilize, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to
do so, and effort needs to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Agriculture
7.        For a country with fairly good soils and a reasonably literate
rural population, agricultural yields in the Philippines are relatively low.
Possible reasons for this situation are the low quantity and quality of



-3-
irrigation facilities and high vulnerability to weather risks; land tenure
patterns; and weak agricultural credit, extension, and other supporting
services. Agricultural production has, nevertheless, grown at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year in the 1970s. The performance of the sector was
exceptionally strong in 1976 and 1977, as production increased by 7%, and the
Philippines has been virtually self-sufficient in rice, its main staple, for
the past three years.
8.        The Government gives high priority to agriculture and rural
development. It has undertaken a number of steps to increase the availability
of irrigation and supporting services, and has also expanded programs to
improve living conditions in rural areas, including rural electrification,
health and family planning, and rural roads. However, while irrigation
investment has been raised substantially, improvements in the quality of
supporting services - particularly credit and extension - are necessary.
9.        For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed. The land transfer program, which has been in
operation for five years and covers rice and corn growing areas, proceeded
quite rapidly when larger landholdings were the focus of concentration, but
progress has been slower recently as the focus has been on a larger number
of medium-sized holdings, which often belong to middle-class landowners. As
of June 1977, an estimated 120,000 tenants, or 30% of the total tenants under
the program, had received Certificates of Land Transfer, which established
their claim to the land. Despite the difficulties in the process of implemen-
tation, the transfer program remains an important part of the Government's
rural development strategy.
Industry
10.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which then depreciated significantly, and introduced
policy changes to reduce tariffs and realign industrial incentives. Further
efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import substitution and
capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate of
industrial growth as projected in the Five Year Development Plan.
11.       Manufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average rate
of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand because! of the decline in the terms of trade in the last
two years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has stagnated.
On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have expanded
rapidly from a very low base as their exports increased almost fivefold in the
four-year period 1973-76 in response to exchange rate adjustment and special
measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions on imports and thus
reduce the bias towards production for the domestic market. As noted above,
further efforts in this clirection will be needed if industrial exports are to
continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction industry has also grown



- 4 -
rapidly as the expansion of relatively construction-intensive public investment
and large tourism investments in the Manila area raised construction expendi-
ture from 6% of GNP in the early 1970s to 12% in 1976.
Employment, Incomes and Population
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-76, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 8% annually during 1975/76, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and account
for most of the growth in total employment.
13.       Preliminary survey data show that the share of income received by
the poorest 40% of families, which remained constant during the 1961-71
period, increased from 12% in 1971 to 15% in 1975. The income share of the
top 20% of families remained about the same as in 1971, while that of middle
income families declined correspondingly. Due to the improvement in agricul-
ture' s terms of trade, the growth of agricultural production, the decline in
urban real wages following the devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of
industrial employment until 1975, the ratio of the average rural income to
the average urban income rose from 48% in 1971 to 57% in 1975. Real per
capita consumption increased by about 2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, after
allowance for price increases, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the
poor live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have
remained about the same.
14.       The population is estimated at 43.3 million in 1976 and is currently
growing at 2.8% as compared to a 3.0% growth rate during the 1960s. The
Philippines has an active family planning program registering approximately
650,000 new acceptors per year. Although the number of new acceptors has
reached a plateau as the program faces the increasingly difficult problem of
reaching rural areas, the estimated proportion of married women of reproductive
age practicing family planning increased from 20% in 1974 to 25% in 1977.
Investment and Savings
15.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975.  Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6-1/2% of GNP in 1977. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP. Although the private investment rate is well over the 14% average of
the early 1970s, the revival of private investment is an important short-term
problem. Furthermore, the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively
modest growth of manufacturing output and employment, and the structural
underutilization of capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency
of investment also needs to be improved.



- 5 -
16.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1976-77, gross domestic savings maintained the level of 25%
of GNP achieved in 1975 and financed about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of
financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Govern-
ment has made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized
banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned
in 1976 and again in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings
into time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and
to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs, creating a difficult policy dilemma. On the one hand,
the programs have become costly means of achieving their objectives, and the
growth of arrears reduces the overall efficiency of resource mobilization and
allocation. On the other hand, the programs do redress imbalances in the
availability of credit so that arrears have to be reduced without closing
necessary credit channels.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
17.       Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since th,e early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and raise both the overall level of expenditures and
the share going to economic services and public investment. By 1977 govern-
ment expenditures had reached an estimated 18% of GNP, and public investment,
which has risen very rapidly in the last two years, equaled about 6-1/2% of GNP.
18.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in inclirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, ancd to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP by an impressive 1.5 percentge points between 1975 and
1977 through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compli-
ance and collection performance. However, much of the success in mobilizing



-6-
revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a sharp decline in the yield
of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical fluctuations. Total tax
revenues, which had been raised from 11% of GNP to 13.6% by 1975, rose to
only an estimated 14.1% in 1977. Greater resource mobilization by government
financial institutions and government corporations, whose investment programs
have grown rapidly, is also needed.
External Trade and Capital Flows
19.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade in 1975,
the current account recorded a deficit of $900 million, or 6% of GNP. To meet
the immediate payments problem, the Government drew down its international
reserves, obtained loans under various IMF facilities, and expanded its
borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer term, a
strategy was adopted of accelerating export growth both to hold the current
account deficit about constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and
to meet the debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
20.       Some progress in these directions was made in the last two years.
In 1976, in spite of a further 11% deterioration in the terms of trade, a
substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import payments
narrowed the trade deficit and partly offset the higher net interest payments.
Although somewhat larger than in 1975, the current account deficit was stabil-
ized at 6% of GNP. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to $1.1 billion.
Most of the inflow was from medium- and long-term loans, two-thirds of which
were public loans reflecting in part increased disbursements from official
sources. Estimates for 1977 show a further substantial expansion in export
volume which, with little expected change in the terms of trade, import
volume, services or transfers, would reduce the current account deficit to 4%
of GNP and eliminate the overall payments deficit. Hence, on the whole, the
balance of payments position has strengthened significantly.
21.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
period 1978-82, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and
a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required. Assum-
ing continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced maturity
structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt of the
Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt
service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average about 19%,
of which 7% would be public debt service, during the plan period (1978-82).
22.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures which will be required during
1978-82 and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits,
the Government sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million
in 1978 at the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in
Tokyo on December 1 and 2, 1977. This amount is likely to be available.
However, since many of the planned projects which are to be financed from
external sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost finan-
cing is necessary, in appropriate cases, to meet the Philippines' external
financing requirements.



-7-
PART' II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
23.       As of March 31, 1978, the Philippines had received 51 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,332.5 million and
three IDA credits amounting to $32.2 million./l  At that date, IFC investments
totalled $96.3 million.  I'he share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 11% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to increase to about 19% and 8%, respectively, by
the end of the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits,
Bank loans and IFC investmnent as of February 28,1978 as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding irrigation systems to
increase food production and to credit programs to support food grain produc-
tion and processing, livestock and fisheries production and tree farming.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation because substantial improvement in
basic infrastructure has been needed to compensate for many years of past
neglect and to provide the basis for future growth of the productive sectors.
In the industrial sector, the Bank's main thrust has been on strengthening
the capacity of public and private development finance institutions with
increasing attention given to meeting the needs of small and medium industries.
In the social sectors, the Bank Group has provided support for education
programs, designed to improve the quality of primary and secondary education
and to meet trained manpower requirements in agriculture and industry. In
urban areas, assistance has been provided for water supply projects and for
programs to upgrade living conditions in low income urban areas and to develop
low cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to the Philippines
population program through assistance for the construction of multipurpose
rural health units and for training of family planning staff.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the results of supervision and
project completion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most
projects are likely to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, the
overall rate of disbursernent is marginally below what would be expected
given the generally good project implementation and the Government is
currently reviewing disbursement performance on an agency-by-agency basis
to identify possible reasons for disbursement lags and to find appropriate
solutions.
/1 Since then, a loan of $60 million for rural electrification was approved
by the Executive Directors on April 4 and an IDA credit of $28 million
for a rural infrastructure project on April 11.



- 8 -
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year Devel-
opment Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of productive
employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy and increased development in
rural areas. The Bank Group's future lending program has been designed to
assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agriculture and rural
development will account for the largest part of future lending, with continued
emphasis on food production and increasing the productivity and incomes of
small farmers. However, the program provides for several new initiatives,
including a first loan to support the strengthening of the national agricul-
tural extension service and a first loan for developing multiple cropping
systems in rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased
support will also be provided for integated rural development projects which
will support the Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in
income. Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry
with special attention being given to expanding the development of labor-
intensive, small and medium industries outside the Metropolitan Manila area.
The share of lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to
increase as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban water
supply and sewerage systems and further assistance to the lower income urban
areas through low cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will also
continue to provide support for improving the quality of education and for
expanding the Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank
Group will continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastruc-
ture projects needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share
of Bank lending for these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead
primarily because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a
large part of the power generation program.
27.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to obtain substan-
tial amounts of foreign assistance on concessional terms to support its
expanding development program.   In view of this consideration, the per
capita income of the country and the generally good management of the economy,
a limited amount of IDA financing will be proposed for the Philippines; the
first IDA credit since 1974 was recently presented to the Executive Directors
and a second is scheduled for FY79.
28.       This is the seventh loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year and would bring total lending to the Philippines to $208 mil-
lion. Loans for development finance, urban development, water supply and
a multipurpose dam projects are expected to be ready for presentation within
the next few months.



- 9 -
PART III - THE ]:NDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE /1
29.       The industrial sector (defined as manufacturing, mining and con-
struction) in 1976 accounted for about one third of GDP and 15% of total
employment. Manufacturing is by far the largest component of the industrial
sector accounting for about one quarter of GDP and about 11% of employment.
Food and beverages are the largest manufacturing group followed by chemicals
and textiles. Manufacturing enterprises are predominantly privately owned
and generally concentrated in large capital-intensive units.
30.       Industry grew alt a rate of about 6% per annum between 1955 and 1971.
Its growth rate accelerated in the early 1970s. However, as the Philippine
economy was adversely affected by the worldwide economic slowdown and the
sharp deterioration in the Philippines' terms of trade, the growth rate
declined to 4.6% within the last three years. Capital investments for plant
and equipment increased by only 5% in 1976 and are estimated to have increased
at about the same rate in 1977. However, assuming the Philippines' terms of
trade are stabilized in 1978, as expected, exports and growing government
expenditures should give increased stimulus to the economy and contribute to
an expansion in the rate of industrial growth and investment. The longer-term
prospects for industrial growth are favorable because of the good natural and
human resources of the Philippines and its active private sector.
31.       There are, however, a number of important issues confronting the
industrial sector. Historically, Philippine industrial production was geared
primarily to the needs of the domestic market and there has been heavy
reliance on protection policies applied through the tariff system and some
degree of import control.. In the late 1960s, the Government became aware
of the problems implicit in this approach and through the Investment Incen-
tives Act of 1967 and the Export Incentives Act of 1970 has sought to expand
the nontraditional industrial base and to expand exports and industrial
employment. In addition to the incentives provided under the Export Incentives
Act, the peso was devalued in 1970, an Export Processing Zone was established
and an Export Council was created to make recommendations on various aspects of
export promotion. Partly in response to some of these measures, nontraditional
manufacturing exports grew very rapidly during the period 1973-77. However,
Philippine industry still remains heavily protected and differential rates of
protection combined with selective export incentives to various industries
are still producing less than optimal industrial and export growth. To
rationalize the industrial sector and to provide the basis for future growth,
it will be necessary for the Government to move toward a less restrictive
trade regime by gradually removing import restrictions and reducing tariffs.
The Government, with the assistance of a Bank-financed consultant, is
undertaking a major review of industrial protection and incentives and is
/1 This section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) Project
(SecM/R78-14), which was considered by the Executive Directors on
January 31, 1978.



- 10 -
considering a major tariff reform. Further stimulus could be provided
through continuing analysis and information programs on foreign market
potential, simpler export procedures, larger credit programs and establish-
ment of trading houses.
32.       Philippine industry has contributed relatively little towards
alleviating the problems of unemployment and underemployment. Between 1960
and 1974, manufacturing employment grew at an annual rate of about 2.5%. The
rate of employment generation, however, has markedly improved during the
last two years as employment in manufacturing grew at an annual rate of 8%
in 1975 and 1976, partly as a result of Government's programs designed to
foster the growth of small and medium industries which have considerable
employment potential.
33.       Manufacturing enterprises remain heavily concentrated in the greater
Metro-Manila Area which accounts for about 40% of such enterprises. The
problem of the geographic concentration of industry is receiving increasing
Government attention. Measures already taken in this regard include provision
of incentives for projects located in less developed areas, promotional
measures by the Board of Investments and its practice of negotiating the
location of the project before its approval, a ban on new plant establishment
within 50 km of Manila (except export-oriented projects) and a requirement
that the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) and the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP) direct at least 60% of their small-scale lending
outside Metro-Manila. Further decentralization of industry will be encouraged
by the Government's rapidly expanding public infrastructure program (particu-
larly roads and rural electrification), major regional planning and development
efforts, and a planned program of regional industrial estates.
34.       The Government's Five-Year Development Plan (1978-82) projects
that the manufacturing sector will grow at an annual rate of 9% during the
Plan period and that manufacturing investment will grow at an annual rate
of 15.5% (from $1.7 billion in 1977 to nearly $3 billion in 1982). The
Government's plan calls for the rapid growth of labor-intensive, small and
medium industries producing both for domestic and export markets, and the
establishment of some large, resource-based projects to deepen the industrial
structure and develop further the country's natural resources. An example of
such a project is the planned construction of a copper smelter to process
copper concentrates that are currently exported.
Industrial Finance
35.       The core of the Philippine financial system is a large commercial
banking sector, both local and foreign, that operates under the branch banking
system and is the main source of working capital and trading credit. In
addition to the commercial banks, there are a number of investment houses,
savings and loan associations, rural banks and regional development banks.
The Government Insurance System and the Social Security System are active in
real estate and mortgage financing. Investment houses operate in the active
short-term money market. In late 1976, the Government allowed foreign bank
branches or offices to establish Off-Shore Banking Units (OBUs) and expand the
Foreign Currency Deposit UJnits to undertake foreign currency credit operations.



- 11 -
The Government-owned Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Private
Development Corporation of lthe Philippines (PDCP) are the only two specialized
long-term lending institutions.
36.       As noted in para. 16, the aggregate savings performance in the
Philippines has improved generally during the last decade and is comparable
to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic development.
Since 1975, gross domestic savings have been at a level of 25% of GNP and
financed approximately 80% of total investment. However, in order to reach
a gross investment level of more than 31% of GNP by 1982 and reduce the
country's dependence on foreign savings, the Five-Year Development Plan
(1978-82) calls for an increase in gross domestic savings to a level of more
than 28% of GNP at the end of the Plan period. To achieve this objective,
the savings of the householid sector, which is expected to contribute approxi-
mately 40% of the total domestic savings requirement, will need to increase
by more than 17% per annum during the next five years.
37.       In addition to raising the level of savings, there is also a need
to increase the maturity of financial assets. While the gross acquisition of
financial assets by the private sector rose from approximately 7% of GDP in
1965 to over 12% in 1974, the relative share of short-term assets increased
from only 17% to more than 40% during the same period. This was mainly due
to statutory limits on deposit rates of credit institutions while no ceilings
existed for money market rates. Given the needs of the investment program
for long-term finance, the present preference for financial assets with
shorter maturities represents an important issue for the Government's financial
policy. With a view to lengthening the average maturity of financial instru-
ments and to encouraging the mobilization of savings through banking institu-
tions, ceilings on bank rates on savings deposits were raised from a range of
6-6.5% to 7-7.5% and on time deposits from a range of from 8-11% to 8.5-12%.
Ceilings on interest rates for loans with maturities exceeding two years were
raised from 12-14% to 19% in January 1976. As the rate of inflation has been
about 7%, the real interest rates are all positive. In June 1977, a 35%
withholding tax on interest paid on short-term financial instruments was
introduced, while a 15% withholding tax on interest paid on savings and time
deposits was set. These measures have resulted in a 36% increase in real
terms in savings and time deposits in 1977.
38.       The Philippine financial system does not yet include an effective
bond market mainly because longer-term interest rates have been statu-
torily controlled. An additional constraint is the dominance of the term
market by Government financial institutions because of the preferential treat-
ment given to their debt instruments. Only very limited capital expansion
is being financed through the stock exchange partly because private owners
are reluctant to share control over their enterprises and prefer financing
through borrowing. Recently, however, a 5% tax was introduced on closely
held corporations to encourage them to go public.
39.       Financial institutions and credit programs in the Philippines have
experienced deterioration of loan recovery rates during recent years which has
seriously affected their financial performance. This is due, in part, to the



- 12 -
rapid expansion of credit programs to the productive sectors and to interna-
tional economic conditions which have had an adverse effect on some domestic
enterprises. The Government is devoting increased attention to the problem
of arrears so that loan recovery can be expected to improve.
40.       It is important for the Government to adopt a systematic long-term
plan to develop the Philippine financial sector along rational lines. An
aide memoire focusing on the issues relating to the financial sector is
being prepared by Bank staff and will form the basis of a policy discussion
between the Government and the Bank within the next few months. A financial
sector mission is scheduled to visit the Philippines in the fall of 1978.
The Bank's Role
41.       The Bank Group has assisted industrial development in the Philippines
by providing financial and technical assistance to financial intermediaries
to help them expand and improve their medium- and long-term lending programs
to productive enterprises. Bank Group lending for the sector so far has been
channelled through the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
(PDCP), the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Industrial
Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF), a compensatory financing and guarantee fund
which is administered by the Central Bank. Total Bank Group lending has
amounted to about $280 million, including a loan of $30 million for the Fifth
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) Project, which
was signed on February 9, 1978. Increasing attention has been given in
recent years to the needs of small and medium industries as $55 million of
the proceeds of Bank loans is being used for financing such enterprises.
42.       Progress under the ongoing industrial projects financed by the
Bank is generally satisfactory. With the exception of the Fifth PDCP Loan,
which was approved only recently, most of the funds under previous loans
have been committed. Results of post-implementation analyses indicate that
both the financial and economic rates of return of subprojects financed are
well above the opportunity cost of capital in the Philippines.
43.       In addition to the proposed loan, we hope to be able to present to
the Executive Directors within the next few months a third loan to DBP for
large, small and medium industries. A second loan to help support the IGLF
program of financing small and medium industries through privately owned
financial intermediaries is scheduled for presentation in FY79. These projects
have been designed to meet the medium- and long-term capital requirements of
industries of all sizes and to strengthen the institutional capability of
public and private lending institutions.
44.       The proposed loan would be the first to the Philippine Investments
Systems Organization (PISO) and would enable it to undertake long-term
industrial lending. The project is designed to support the Philippine
Government's objective of increasing the rate of industrial growth to 9% per
annum (para. 34). In order to achieve this objective, it will be necessary to
increase substantially the long-term resources available for industrial
development and to diversify the sources of such financing, particularly in
the private sector. Long-term loans currently account for less than 20% of



- 13 -
the investment required by the industrial sector; 95% of such loans are
provided by two institutions: DBP and PDCP. The Government has therefore
requested the Bank to make a loan to PISO with a view to helping develop its
capacity for long-term lending for private sector development projects. The
Government selected PISO because of its relatively diverse ownership and the
high quality of its management and staff.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The proposed loan would be the first to assist PISO in developing
an effective program of medium- and long-term lending to private sector
enterprises. The project was appraised in July 1977 and negotiations were
held in Washington in Marchi 1978. The Philippine negotiating team was
led by His Excellency, Eduardo Z. Romualdez, the Philippine Ambassador to the
United States, and Mr. Vicitor S. Barrios, Chairman and President of PISO. A
Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on the Philippine
Investments Systems Organization" (No. 1900-PH), is being distributed separ-
ately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
46.       The proposed loan would be made to the publicly owned Philippine
National Bank (PNB), which would relend the proceeds to PISO under the same
terms and conditions as that of the Bank loan, except that PNB is expected to
charge PISO a handling fee of 0.75% p.a. on the amount outstanding.
The relending arrangement through PNB is necessary because the Philippine law
provides that the Governmnent can only guarantee the obligations of publicly
owned institutions.
47.       The proposed Bank loan and the subsidiary loan to PISO would have
flexible amortization schedules reflecting the aggregate of repayment schedules
for subloans made by PISO which will have a maximum term of 15 years including
a grace period of up to three years. Most of PISO's subloans are expected
to have maturities of 5-12 years with an appropriate grace period. PISO
plans to charge interest aLt 12-14% (including all service fees) on its
subloans. PISO's "free limit" would be established at $750,000 and which in
aggregate would not exceed $5 million. Subloans falling above these limits
would require Bank approval (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Institutional Aspects
48.       PISO was incorporated on March 1, 1974 as a privately owned Invest-
ment House. Its charter contains all the provisions normally associated with
development financing/investment banking institutions. Its authorized share
capital is P 100 million, and as of December 31, 1977, subscribed and paid-in share
capital amounted to P 23.6 million (about $3.1 million). In addition, accumu-
lated retained earnings as of the same date were about P 4.2 million, bringing
the total equity to about P 27.8 million ($3.6 million). The sole foreign
shareholder is the Private Investment Company for Asia (PICA) S.A.,/l which
owns 33.6% of the outstanding stock.  The largest domestic shareholder (the
Inco Mining Corporation) owns about 19.5% of PISO's outstanding stock.
/1 A Singapore-based multinational investment corporation with the objective
of promoting privately owned productive industrial enterprises in Asia.



- 14 -
49.       Given its relatively short operating life and the constraints
on mobilizing long-term sources of funds, PISO's activities to date have been
zonfined mainly to short-term financing operations, money market transactions
and syndications. Short-term trading assets constitute the bulk of PISO's
portfolio and are financed by short-term borrowings and equity. As of
December 31, 1977, PISO's short-term investments and cash in hand and other
current assets totalled P 119 million ($15.9 million equivalent) and consti-
tuted about 95% of PISO's total assets. PISO has not yet undertaken any
significant amount of long-term lending operations. It has, however, managed
and/or participated in 11 syndications of long-term loans and has made one
equity investment. In four of these syndications, it has approved loans from
its own resources totalling P 21.3 million of which about P 7.1 million
remained outstanding as of December 31, 1977. Of the 11 projects, 7 were new
and 4 were "pioneering" ventures in product lines not previously established
in the Philippines. PISO has also privately placed or underwritten common
stock issues of a total value of P 8.7 million for three companies and has
guaranteed part of three commercial loans for a total amount of P 7.5 million.
50.       To provide the basis for an expanded long-term lending program,
PISO has agreed to increase its net worth (share capital plus retained earnings)
by at least F 10 million, which would increase its net worth to about P 37.8
million (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Concurrently, PICA's
shareholding would be reduced to 30%. To encourage wider participation,
individual domestic shareholding would be restricted to 15%. The Land Bank of
the Philippines (LBP) is expected to subscribe to the new share issue (14.6%).
LBP's participation is expected to be an interim measure to help PISO launch
its expanded lending program. The Land Bank intends to divest its shares
within the next 3-5 years and PISO's management plans to list publicly and
trade its shares as soon as practicable within the same period.
51.       Project Evaluation, Procurement and Disbursement Procedures.  On the
basis of a review of all of PISO's project appraisal reports and special
market studies, the existing project evaluation capabilities appear to be of
high quality. The reports reviewed, however, did not include economic
evaluation of projects financed. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that PISO would undertake economic rate of return analysis for all projects
requiring investment of $750,000 and above (Section 2.02(b)(ii) of the
draft Project Agreement). Apart from this, all appraisal reports would
contain the usual partial economic indicators (i.e. value added, employment
generated, foreign exchange savings realized, etc.). Consideration of
technical aspects of projects requires strengthening and PISO plans to
concentrate on improving this aspect of appraisal, using consultant services
when necessary. While PISO's experience in supervision has been in the past
relatively limited, its supervision procedures are soundly conceived and
reports prepared are of good quality. PISO's procurement procedures help
ensure that the right type of machinery and equipment is purchased at a
reasonable price. It usually requires at least three competitive quotations,
and its staff carefully checks the suitability of equipment. Disbursements
are made after detailed scrutiny of supporting documents.



- 15 -
52.       Management and Staff.  PISO's Board of Directors comprises 11 seats,
of which 9 are presently filLed. All board members are well qualified and
complement each other in tenns of their individual and collective experience,
industrial interests, and links with financial/business groups. The Chairman
of the Board, Mr. Victor S. Barrios, who is also PISO's President and chief
executive officer, is a prominent member of, and a leading spokesman for, the
Philippine financial community. He has had considerable experience in
development banking (for several years as a senior staff member with PDCP)
and his ability and commitment to development finance are respected in both
the private and public sector.  He is supported by a well qualified top
management team.
53.       PISO's total staff numbered 55 as of March 15, 1978, with profes-
sional and support staff being distributed on a roughly 7:3 basis. Since
September 1976, PISO has been able to slow the relatively high turnover of
staff by periodic adjustment of salaries and the provision of more diversified
work assignments. PISO's staff are judged to be of high quality; its number
has been increased by seven officers during the last six months which
will enable PISO to deal with project evaluation/supervision workload likely
to result from the availability of the proposed Bank loan. PISO expects to
strengthen its staff further by recruiting approximately 8-10 additional
employees by the end of FY78.
Policies and Corporate Strategy
54.       Since its incorporation, PISO has gradually been developing and
refining a policy framework to guide its operations. With broad guidelines
for corporate activity having been established at the outset by the Board, a
series of specific policies governing day-to-day operations continues
to be developed. These policies, however, are not embodied in PISO's present
Policy Statement. PISO's management recognizes the usefulness of refining
and expanding its Statement to incorporate and expand upon existing policies
relating to the conduct of its operations and regulation of its financial
affairs. Accordingly, PISO has revised its Policy Statement which was
adopted formally by its Board on March 29, 1978. The revised Policy Statement
outlines in specific terms PISO's operating and financial policies and
procedures. This document is supplemented by a Corporate Strategy Statement
which outlines the directions PISO proposes to take in the next three years
and what it hopes to achieve in this period. The main features of PISO's
strategy are to: (a) maintain its character as an investment house but with
increasing emphasis on long-term financing; (b) increase the proportion of
long-term assets to total assets from 2% in 1976 to about 50% by 1981; (c)
diversify its portfolio with respect to industrial, geographical, and regional
distribution and to restrict its exposure in any single industry to 30% of
its outstanding long-term portfolio; (d) closely monitor security market
conditions with the intent to list publicly its shares and widen its domestic
ownership base; (e) diversify its long-term foreign and domestic resources;
and (f) evaluate the contribution of all projects to the Philippine economy
and where possible stress such particular development objectives as employment
creation, export promotion and regional dispersal of industries.



- 16 -
Financial Position and Performance
55.       As of December 31, 1977, PISO's total assets stood at about
P 125.5 million (about $16.7 million equivalent), of which almost all assets
(95%) were classified as current assets. Its term loan portfolio remains
relatively insignificant, accounting for only 5.7% of total assets. PISO's
current ratio stood at 1.3:1 as of December 31, 1977, and its total debt/equity
ratio at 3.8:1. Net income after provisions and tax was P 3.5 million which
represents an increase of 49% over 1976 after a sharp reduction in 1976 of
22% from 1975. Return on average assets was 2.9% in 1977 as compared with
2.1% in 1976. PISO paid a 6% dividend (on par value) in both 1975 and 1976,
and as of June 30, 1977, the book value of a PISO share was about 18% above
par, after a stock dividend of 15%, reflecting PISO's retained earnings of
about P 4.2 million. Since PISO has virtually no long-term portfolio, it has
had no significant experience in dealing with the problem of arrears. However,
it has adopted a prudent stance in determining the level of provisions for
doubtful accounts and intends to increase the level of provisions annually at
a rate commensurate with portfolio growth until the provisions correspond to
at least 1.5% of total loan portfolio by 1981.
Projected Operations
56.        PISO's projected commitments for loans are expected to grow from
P 8.8 million in 1977 to about P 42.8 million in 1978 and to P 180 million in
1981, while total commitments including guarantees and syndications are
expected to grow from P 251.3 million in 1977 to P 416.3 million 1981. These
projected targets are considered attainable, given PISO's institutional
capability and its plans for staff increases. PISO's share of the market for
long-term loans (from its own and borrowed funds) would gradually increase
from 0.2% in 1978 to 1.5% in 1981.
57.       On the basis of these projections, PISO's long-term loans would
increase from only 4.2% of its total assets in 1977 to about 52% in 1981.
Both its Policy and Strategy Statements call for the support of new entre-
preneurs, of small-scale enterprises and of clients who do not enjoy ready
access to financing elsewhere. However, as a newcomer to long-term financing,
PISO will inevitably start with modest targets and will have to rely to a
considerable extent, in the initial stages, on the financing of larger established
companies. PISO expects to expand gradually its assistance to small-scale
enterprises; while annual commitments to such enterprises are only expected
to average 4.6% of total loan commitments, their share in terms of number of
operations will increase substantially. This level of small business lending
is considered reasonable at this stage of PISO's development.



- 17 -
Resource Requirements and Projected Financial Position
58.       During the period 1978-1981, additional domestic resources of about
P 60 million are expected to be required and would be financed through
additional paid-in capital, net collections, internally generated funds and
refinancing from the IGLF for small enterprises financed under this facility.
Foreign resource requirements during the period 1978-1979 are expected to be
about $21 million (about P 157.5 million).  The proposed $15 million Bank loan,
and $2 million from the US Eximbank would meet the bulk of PISO's foreign
currency requirements over that period.
59.       PISO's total assets are expected to grow at an average annual rate
of nearly 50% between 1978, and 1981, reaching P 626.3 million ($83.5 million
equivalent) in 1981. PISO's total debt equity ratio will be below 10:1 up to
1981. According to the projections, the current ratio is not expected to fall
below 1.2:1 while the debt service cover ratio is expected to decline from 3.1
in 1978 to 2.0 in 1981. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that
PISO would maintain a long-term debt equity limit of 4:1 and a total debt/equity
ratio of 10:1 (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement). In addition,
PISO would continue to maintain debt service and interest coverage at satisfac-
tory levels and would use as a guideline a 10% margin for the current debt
service and interest coverage ratios. Net income is expected to increase
from P 3.5 million in 1977 to about P 16.6 million in 1981, reflecting a
yearly average increase of about 48%. The income contribution from the
long-term portfolio is expected to increase from 8.8% of total income in 1977
to 67% in 1981. PISO's projections show gradually increasing net returns on
average equity from about 13.3% in 1977 to about 25.7% in 1981. PISO intends
to retain at least 40% of its net average earnings to strengthen its capital
base, and its proposed dividend policy has been set accordingly.
Justifications and Risks
60.       The project wouLd help provide the needed resources for industrial
development in the Philippines and would strengthen PISO's capacity for
longer-term development lending. Although most of the proceeds of the
proposed loan would be on]Lent to medium- and large-scale modern enterprises,
the project would create the institutional basis enabling PISO in the longer
run to expand its lending to more small-scale industrial projects.  Apart from
the normal difficulties that may arise in project implementation, because
PISO is a relatively new entity, there are no special risks associated with
the project.
61.       The effectiveness of PISO and other development finance companies
in the Philippines in mobilizing and allocating medium- and long-term finan-
cial resources for the industrial sector, will depend to an important degree
on the adequacy of measures, which the Government will need to adopt within
the next few years, to resolve the broader financial and industrial sector
issues referred to in Parit III. These sectoral concerns will form an important
part of the continued policy discussions between the Government and Bank staff
within the next year or two.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and PNB, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and the Bank, the
draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PISO, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
63.       Special conditions of this loan are referred to in Section III of
Annex III. An increase in PISO's equity by P 10 million has been made an
additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
by I.P.M. Cargill
Vice President, Finance
Attachments
April 11, 1978



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                              Page 1 of 4 pages
PHILIPPINES         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                                   ------------------------ -        --
_---------------                    - ------------PHILIPPINES                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      300.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     109.6                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE           THAILAND        IURKEY         KOREA SOUTH **
_ _ -------------_------             --------__   ---_   ------_   ---_ ---   -----_ _-_ ----__--
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     140.0*    230,0*   410.0*/a              210.0 *    500.0*       280.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
-_ -_  -_   _     _   _-- _- _-- _- _-- _  _ 
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           27.4       36.9      43.3/a               36.3        35.6        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       91.0      123.0    144   a               71.0        46.0       327.0
PER sQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       328.0      375.0     395.0/a             263.0         65.0     1371.0
VITAIL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         45.1       44.2       43.8               44.3         40.6        35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          17.9       13.2       10.5               13.7         14.4        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        84.6      81.0       72.0                80.0       153.0/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       49.4       55.6       56.5               55.5        54.4        65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5/a      3.3        3.3                3.2         2.6/b,c    2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE 1%)
TOTAL                                 3.0        3.0       2.8                 3.1         2.5         2.3
URBAN                                 4.0        4.0        3.9                4.9         4-9/d       6.4
URBAN POPULATION I% OF TOTAL)          25.3       27.6      29.8                 15.0       38.7        41.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.7       45.6      43.2                45.1        41.7        42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                       51.6       51.6      54.0                51.8        54.0        54.5
65 YEARS ANO OVER                     2.7        2.8        2.8                3.1         4.3         3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9                                     0.9         0.9         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RArjo               1.3/b      1.5        1.i/b              1.1         1i1/e       1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..     320.0    4065.0/a              470.0          ..      4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             .         2.0      25.0/a              10.0         6.2        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        10100.0   12400.0  15400.0/a              6700.0    t4soo.0/f  10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (x)         61./C    55s.o/a   52.67i                79.0        67.0        50.4/a
IINFMlP~TCyf  -1% nc LABOP  -OOCS)      e.?        7.5        4.C                  .         4.0/       4.
iNCOMC DISTRIBUTIGN
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            28.6         ..                          22.0        32.8/h      17.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            56.2      5.0        5.                  51.1        60.6        44.5
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.2        3                             5.6         2.
LowEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            11.9      11.7       14.7                14.3         9.4 /h    17.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND CWN7;S.,i-.
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..       43.0/c                         5 53.0      28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..          ..        2.0/c             -           0.9         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..        ..   1190.0/d             7970.0      2250.0      2110.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             .         . .    4i0.0tM            6650.0      1770.0 /i  2170 .:/
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          11B0.0      650.0    880.0                890.0       500.0      1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         83.0       93.0    105.7                103.0       110.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0       45.0      55.6                52.0        78.0       65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         is.o/d    22.0          ,                17.0 /a    22.00        19.0
DIATH RAT[ (/THOU) AGES 1-4             6.0/e      6.0       7.5                            14.7 /k
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      95.0       113.0    117.0                 81.0       109.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     26.0       49.0      49.0                16.0        28.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0       1o.0       10.0               12.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     14.0/f      6.o/b     9_0 14 _0 /b    14.0                      16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..        .       87.0                79.0        55.0 /1    87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..        * -          ,                 ..        1.9         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                      60.0       76.0         .                  ..        64.0       80.0/c
ACCE55 TO ELECTRICITY                                                                                      -
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 17.0       23.0      31.0                  . .       41.0       50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I%                     .*        7.0      10.0                  . .       18.0       30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         22.0       72.0         .                78.0        89.0       126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)           3.0        8.0        8.0                5.0         4.0         2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          100.0      235.0     291.0               124.0       247.0       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               1.3        2.0        1.5                1.0         0.7         3.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
N0TS
bless otherwISe noted, dots for 1960 refer to any year betieen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
^  GNP per copita datS ae- based on the World bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
cc  gorea bac  veer solrcced as an objectioe coontry on the basif  of its ainilar popuiation, location and income level and, like the Philippi-es, it
is exPected   cr-w tepidly it the caning years.
PLPINS    1960     h   1950-55;       /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;               /t  As percentage of enploynent;
_PHILIPP,  I      19 !          Id  1960-62;    /e  1962;    /f  Not including vocationel short-term  courses.
l97 0    ,   Ac porcontage of enploynent;    /b  Not Including private vocational schools or vocational short-tern coarses
MOST RECENT fSTIMATE;        /s  1976;      lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;                /c  1971;
/d Registered only; believed to be ovar-entinate of ocbner actually practicing.
THAILAND          S970    /a  1964-66;    /b  Public schools, which include technical education at the post-aerondary level.
TIIRILEY          1970    ia  1967;    /b  Excludes 17 eastern provinces;             Ic  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /e  Ratio of population under 15 sod 65
and over to lab1.   force 15 years and wevr;    /f  15 years and over, e.cludes unemployed;    jj  Registered only;
/h  Disposable income;    /i  Including assistant nurses and midwives;    /I  1964-66;                  /k  1967-68;      /I  Persona
six years and over who tell the census takars that they can rad and write.
inipo REP'. OF   1970    /a  An peroentaga of employmnt;    /b  Registered, not all practicing  in the country;                    /c  Water piped inside.
RiD,  Noveeber 17, 1977
DEmnTIOau oF SOCIAL 7NDICATORS
Land  urear-)thou k=2                                                                         %oul:tion  er nursing  prson - Population dtvided by musber of practicing
Total - Total s-rfac- areS  crerpriSifg land  reas  nd inland waters,                            es a nd fel  grduts  norsee, "trained" or "certified"             s       d
Uri. - Moot re-et, e-timate of agricoitural ars  used tmporarily or peros-                       anilia-y personnel with training or eaperance,.
n-ntly fo- crops, pastures., srket 6 kitchen garden  or to lie fallo.                       Porulatim psr hoeitel bad - Population diviled by number of hospiel beds
availabl  in public and privet  general and epecilised hespitel nd
GNP per capita (1S)5 - GNSP per capita eatimates  t corrent market pnicaa,                       rehabilitation ceeter; secludes  ourtieg hoas  nd esutblihente  for
cal-claced by oSu- conar-sor- method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basie);                     cvetodial  nd prventive nre.
1960; 1970 aed 1975 data.                                                                   Per canita sunely of calorie  (7 of resuirememtal - CoPputed fros  nergy
squivaleat of -t food supplies eilebl  is c--otry par capita per dsy;
Population  and vital statstic;                                                                   vailble supplies canprise d-a-tic productis, imports 1ass  eporte, Ind
Population (mid-Year million)   Ar of July first:  if not  vailable,   orage                     changes in stock; net *pplies amclde enimal feed,  seede, quantities used
of two end-year .stb.ata.; 1'60, 1970  nd 1975 data.                                           is food proceseing  and lasses in distribution; rquire nts  ere estimated
by FAD based on physislegical ne-ds for normai activity ed halth conid-
Poeulation denity - per  square kl - Mid-year population par square kil.ts.r                     srnug emviro_ntal tmperature, body  eighta, ag. and ase  diitributions of
(100 hecteree) of total area.                                                                  popuhtion,  nd allowing 102 for wete at houehold level.
PoPvlhtion deneity - per sosere kI of a*ric. lend - Computed as abae far                       Per canite auPly of protain (gara  per de) - Pratnei  content of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                        et swpply of food per day;   t supply of fond is defimad as above; rquire-
ments for all countris eatabliahed by USA Economic ReSeerch Services
Vital statistics                                                                                 provide for a miniusa a*ilmesca of 60 gr_  of totel proctin Per day, and
Crude birth rats per thousand. a-arge - Aonual live hirtha per thousand of                       20 gra  of aime1 and pulse prontim, ef which 10 gr_  should be -1-1e
lid-year popolation; ten-year -ritheetic average  ending in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; theae stanedrds ar  Isr then those of 75 grne of total protein
and five-yes  average ending in 1975 for eat recant estimate                                   and 23 grasa of animl protain as *m average for the wsrld, propoad by FPO
Crude death rats Per thouaand, avesrse - Annual deatha per thousand of  id-yar                   in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arita tic  averages ending is 1960 and 1970 and five-                   Per capita prsteis supaly fr    animal end  ,l,s  - protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for  as.t recant estimate,                                         derived from  anals  and pulee in grm   per day.
Infant  mortality  rats (/thou) - Annual deaths of infant  under on  year of age               Death rate (/thou)   ces 1-4 - A-nual deatha per thossand in age group 1-4
per thousand liv  births,                                                                      yrars, to children in this aga group; suggested as an indirtotr of
Life esp*ctancy at birth (yr.) - A-erege nusber of years of life raining  at                     malnutrition
birth; usually five-year -v-r-ge- ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing co,attico                                                                               Education
Croae reproduction rate - verage cuber of live daughtereawaan will bear                        Adiu ted enrollment ratio  - priery   chool - Enro11_nt sf a11  ges as per-
in her normal reprodop ti-e  period if she amperieoces preent age-specific                     cantags of peimary school-age popul-tian; inclods children aged 6-11 y-ea
tertility  rates;  u-ally fine-vest averagea  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different lengths of primary adocatin; for countries  ith
for developing couctrins                                                                       onivereal edu-stion, enrollment may ee.sad 10v2 since *    pupils are blov
Population  crowd, rate  (7.) - total -   nCopound annual growth rates of mid-yer                or above the Official school age.
popultion for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  Adjuted  enrollment ratio -  secondary school - Cuaputed  s  bove; secondary
Population  grovth rate (7.) - urban - Canputod like growth rate of total                        education requires at least four years Of approvd priary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas ny affect comparability of                    provides general, vocational or teacher training instruction   for pupila
data among countrLes.                                                                          of 12 to 17 years of ags; correapsedesce courses en  generally  ezclIded
Drhac  epulation  (7, of total) - Ratio of urban to total populatioq; differeot                Yes of chooling e     rovidf d  Ifirt  sod second  leels) - Total yess of
definitios of urban areas nay aftrct comparability of data  sng countries.                      chooling; at secondary level, voctionl instruction  ay be partially  or
ct0o pl-tely estluded.
A,ge  trctore (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                    Vocational enrollment  (7. of secondary) - VOC-atiOnl institutions i-olude
and retired f65 years and aver) as percentages of mid-year papuletion                          technical, indtrial or other progra  which operate ifd.pendently  r as
Jyc dependency  ratIo - farto of population onder 15 and 6) and over to those                    deparonents of secondary Institutionn.
t ages IS tbrocd  b ha.                                                                      Adult literacy rate  (7.) - Literate  dults (fbl  to read and write) as pen-
iconocic  dependencvc ratio - Ratio of population under 1I  and 65 and over to                   centage of total adult popul-tion aged 15 years ad over.
the labor farce in ago 9ro-p of 15-64 years.
raniI  plyanln _ - cceptora  (co-nlative-  thou) - Cusolative  on-ber of acceptors            Hgoing
of birth-octnrel de-ires coder sospicen of national faily planning progres                   Per-n-  per roan (urban) - Average  uoaber of parsons per rtas in occupied
sinc  incaptbo                                                                                 conventional dwellings in urban  re; dwellings eeolsde non-permanet
Feils   pla-nnign      t   (77 of  married  women) - Percentages of mArried woeen of             structure  and unoccupied parts
child-bearing  age (15-44 years) who ue birth-control devio-u  to a11 married                Docucied  dwsllins   mithout pead  water (%) - Occupied conventional dwelings
woee insa ne age yroup.                                                                        in urban and rural areas  ithout inside or outside piped water f-ctilita
sa percentage of a11 occupied dwellings.
T.t.1i.brvmeet-~                                                                               A.ces  to   lcrct.7  faldelns   Conventcima  dwellings ath
folc labd orf Ioly d brhuutad  -fonghoma    active persona, including armed                    electricity  in living qarters as p         t of total dwellings in  rban ed
focei   cd  ompae  btscuigouwie, students, etc.; definitionsrrl  ns
Ic eniaacontisa are set coparable                                                       RucaI dwellings  connected  to elsetricity  (7.) - Canputed as above for rural
Labor farce  in  aricuiture (7) - AgricuLtural labor force (ic faring, forestry,                 d1eings only.
hunting and fisabio5 as percent-ge of total labor fsrce.
UnnnPeloyd  (7 of  labor force) - Unemplyed are usully defined as persons vho                 CoosurPtion
are able and willioi  to take a jab, out of a job on a gives day, rained sut                 Radio recivers  fetr thou  eon) - All types of receivers for radio broadcast
of a job. and aecking work for a uperffifd ninimom  period not  -sceediag one                  to general public per thousand of papulacice; emclsdea onliceneed receiver
week; may not be comparable betweno countries due to different definitions                     in countrie  and in yehes when registration of  radio sets was in effect
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statiatics, ._p,e                    date for r1cn t years may not bh  canpara-ble aoes   st courie  fbolihed
sarneys. compcleorv ono-ployment ins-race                                                      UIcen ing.
Passeger cars (per thou pop) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars sesting
Inca distribhti-   - Percentage of prieste Lncome (both ic cash and kind)                       le   than eight persons; enclodes embulenes, hearses and military
receivad by riche-t 57. richest 207., poorest 207., and poorest 407 of house-                  vehicles
boide.                                                                                       Electricity  (kwh/yr pear cap) - Annual coneption of idoatrial,   -           imerial,
public end private electricity  in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Diacribctioo  of  tend   nersblc-Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 107                     based on production dat.,  ithout l1owance for losses in grids bht allow-
and poorest 107. of land owners.                                                               oig for imports and  eprta of electricity.
H NNesrist 'kg/-r per cap) - Per c-pita annual conoamption in kilogra
Health  end Nutrition                                                                            estia ted frn  domestic production plus net imports of n-sprint.
Population per phyrcciac - fopulotion divided by nun-er of practicing
physIicans qualified trowl a mnedical school at coivereity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
US$ million      %           1966-71            1971-76              1976
GNP at Market Prices             17,631       100.0           5.1                6.6                 6.4
Gross Domestic Investment         5,519        31.3           5.9               12.5                 6.3
Gross National Saving             4,413        25.0           2.4               10.8                 6.6
Current Account Balance         -1,106         -6.3
Exports of Goods, NFS            3,115         17.7          -0.5                5.6                18.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            4,270         24.2           4.1                6.5                 1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                  Labor Force                   V. A. per worker
US$ million            Z       Million                        - US$              x
Agriculture           5,156             29.0         8.1         50.0               637           58.0
Industry             6,029              33.9         2.3         14.2             2,621          238.7
Services             6,607              37.1         5.0         30.9             1,321          120.3
Unemployed              .                .           0.8          4.9               .            _
Total/Average    17,792              100.0        16.2        100.0             1,098          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                       Central Government
(P billion)          % of GDP             (P billion)            % of GDP
1976          1976          1971          1976          1976          1971
Current Receipts          20.9          15.8          11.3          18.3           13.8           9.2
Current Expenditure       18.2          13.7          10.1          16.1           12.2           7.6
Current Surplus            2.7           2.0           1.2           2.2            1.7           1.6
Capital Expenditures       4.9           3.8           1.6           4.5           3.4            1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976     AuRust 1977
(P million outstanding end period)
Money Supply                         6,500      7,300     9,000    10,300    12,100         12,800
Bank Credit to Public Sector         3,900      2,400     2,000      5,800      8,900        9,200
Bank Credit to Private Sector    12,600    16,200    24,200    28,500    23,600             34,900
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                     11.5       10.1       9.0        8.9        9.2
General Price Index (1972 = 100)  100.0         117.6     154.4      166.8      180.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    6.7      17.6       31.3        8.0        8.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -2.1     -38.5      -16.7      190.0       53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector         21.7      28.6       49.4       17.8       17.9
/a All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975    1976                                     US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                     539      21.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,431   3,076   3,330   Sugar Products                         613       24.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          3,784   4,116   4,383   Forest Products                        298       11.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -353  -1,040  -1,053   Mineral Products                         437       17.3
Fruits & Other Agric. Products    178          7.1
Interest Payments (net)           26      -53    -185   Other Manufactures                    456       18.1
Other Factor Payments (net)   -154    -149    -138         Total                            2,521      100.0
Net Transfers                    276      318     269
Balance on Current Account    -205    -924  -1,107   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment         28      125      144
Net MLT Borrowing                                        Public Debt, including Guaranteed         2,216
Disbursements                  456      677   1,407   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                 1,812
Amortization                   312      318     368   Total Outstanding and Disbursed            4,028
Subtotal                     144     359   1,039
Other Capital (net) /a           143      -80    -236   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)         110    -521    -160
Public Debt, including Guaranteed           7.2
Gross Reserves                                           Nonguaranteed Private Debt                 10.5
(end year) /b                1,978   2,079   2,205   Total Outstanding and Disbursed              17.7
Petroleum Imports                573      710     801
IBRD/IDA LENDING, February 28, 1978 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                 IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages        End Period  Outstanding and Disbursed              457.7   29.0
1975   1976  Jan-Aug 1977   Aug 1977   Undisbursed                             697.4    3.2
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,155.1   32.2
US$1.00 =  P   7.275  7.447       7.418         7.403
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.138  0.134       0.135         0.135
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/c Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
Id Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of February 28, 1978
Loan or
Credit                                                           Amounts ($ million)
Number      Year       Borrower          Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and two credits fully disbursed               218.5    19.5
637-PH     1969    Republic of the
Philippines       Irrigation          34.0                0.3
720-PH    1971                          Rice Processing
".             and Storage       14.3                4.4
809-PH     1972    National Power
Corporation      Power                22.0                4.3
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Education II                  12.7       3.2
891-PH     1973           "             Fisheries           11.6                 1.1
939-PH     1973                         Ports                6.1                 3.2
950-PH     1973                         Second Highways   68.0                  14.2
984-PH     1974                         Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation         9.5                5.9
998-PH     1974                         DFC-DBP 1           50.0                 7.4
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power                61.0               27.0
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population           25.0               18.7
1048-PH    1974            "             Shipping            20.0               15.1
1052-PH     1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                   30.0               19.6
1290-PH     1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines         Irrigation        17.0               11.4
1102-PH     1975                         Rural
Development       25.0               22.5
1120-PH     1975                         Small and Medium
Industries       30.0                 8.0
1154-PH    1976                          Magat
Irrigation       42.0                32.8
1190-PH     1976            "            DFC-DBP II          75.0               56.3
1224-T-PH  1976                          Education III       25.0               20.3
1225-PH     1976                         Livestock II        20.5               12.4
1227-PH     1976                         Chico Irrigation  50.0                 47.7
1272-T-PH  1976                          Manila Urban        10.0                9.0
1282-PH     1976                         Manila Urban        22.0               19.7
1269-PH     1976                         Second Grain
Processing        11.5               11.5
1270-PH     1976           "             Second Fisheries  12.0                 10.2
1353-PH    1977                          Third Highways    95.0                 94.5
1367-PH    1977                          Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                  15.0
1374-PH    1977                          Fourth Education  25.0                 24.5
1399-PH     1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit              36.5               34.9
14L4-PH     1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines         tion Systems
Improvement      50.0                49.8
1415-PH     1977                         Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0                 22.7
1421-PH     1977                         Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlement 15.0                 15.0
1460-PH     1977    National Power
Corporation       Seventh Power       58.0               58.0
1506-PH *  197B    Republic of the   Smallholder Tree
Philippines         Farming            8.0                8.0
1514-PH *  1978    Philippine
National Bank   DEC (PDCP)            30.0               30.0
Total /a                                         1,265.5    32.2    738.6
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                         110.4        -
Total now outstanding                            1.155.1    32.2
Amount sold                         22.0
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                  13.1              8.9        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                  1,146.2    32.2
Total undisbursed                                  697.4       3.2    738.6
Ia  A loan of $65 million fur the Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement
Project waks approved by the Executive Directors on February 28, 1978 and
signed on March 15, 1978. In addition, a loan of $2 million for an
Educational Radio Technical Assistance Project was approved by the
Executive Directors on March 21, 1978, a loan of $60 million for rural
electrification on April 4, 1978 and a credit of $28 million for a rural
infrastructure project on April 11, 1978.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of February 28, 1978
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0     4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0       -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -     4.0       4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                           4.5       -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8     0.4       1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                   -     2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation              6.2      2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                15.0       -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9     0.3       2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5       -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5         0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation              1.2        -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0       -       7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                    2.6      0.2       2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                    2.3      1.2      3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                    3.5       -        3.5
Total gross commitments                      71.0    15.3      86.3
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                       24.5    12.0      36.5
Total commitments now held by IFC           46.5      3.3      49.8
Undisbursed                                   5.0       -       5.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 MiLlion Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project diverts water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan
reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for 30,000 ha of rice land in
Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and abutment area grouting on
the two diversion dams was more extensive than originally expected, progress
on the transbasin diversion was excellent. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water,
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of prcjects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. Tbhey should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
on closure of the first dam in July 1975, was an early benefit for the Central
Luzon rice growing area. The second dam was closed or April. 1, 1976, about one
year ahead of schedule. In the service area, lack of competition and high bids
delayed awarding of contracts, but five small local construction firms are now
at work. Urgent work is being done by government forces. Project costs have
increased about 54% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid
inflation. Although there are added benefits from early diversion resulting in
additional water for irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have
been added to the project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at
appraisal to around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement
on the Loan has begun.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the Closing Date. A moderate arrears
problem has developed, which DBP is tackling by increasing its supervision
and collection efforts.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
All major civil works contracts are now awarded and remaining work is all
under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded. Progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan Port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control, and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and after substantial initial delays, is
improving steadily for the road component. These two components are being
implemented by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and
construction has begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan
Assistance Program, however, there was little early progress under the other
programs because of inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new
programs. More adequate budgets have now been approved and all work is
expected to proceed rapidly.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975: Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha cf land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
almost completed. The water management training is under way and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. As of June 30, 1977, disbursements were $5.0 million, which is
about 70% above appraisal estimates. However, arrears under the First
Livestock Project are quite high and DBP is now taking steps to improve
subloan appraisal and supervision as well as project monitoring.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing l)ate: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Consultants for the Erosion
Control Study and for input-output monitoring have been engaged. A start
has been made on civil works for rehabilitation of the Chico West and Tuga-
Gobgob areas. Bids have been received for the three road links included in
the project and contracts have been awarded for two of them. Government
evaluation of the third is still under way. After substantial initial delay,
the road component of the project is now progressing more satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan is assisting the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
Construction work on the existing main and secondary canals improvement has
now begun.
Loan No. 1399   Fouirth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium- and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. Initial implementation was delayed because of the
time required for preparation, but commitments are expected to increase in
the coming months. The major problem is to minimize disqualification from
participation due to high arrearages and to encourage eligible rural banks to
participate.
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project consists of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving 28,000 ha and extension of irrigation facilities to 22,000 ha



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
of farmland in Northern Luzon and Leyte, and a schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte. The Loan became effective on August 9, 1977.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan became effective on October 27, 1977. A good start has
been made in setting up the administrative structure of the project implemen-
ting unit and in improving its planning capacity. Physical progress is
somewhat behind schedule as a result of procedural difficulties in obtaining
local counterpart funds. This problem, however, is being resolved and
project implementation can be expected to be completed on time.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan was approved by the Executive Directors on December 22, 1977
and signed on January 23, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will assist the Government to improve and develop irriga-
tion systems for a total of 80,900 ha, control schistosomiasis and strengthen
the National Irrigation Administration regional offices. The Loan Agreement
was signed on March 15, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan, de Oro. These problems have been resolved and
progress on civil works construction at both plants is improving. By June
1977, work was 36% completed in General Santos, and 6% in Cagayan de Oro.
The present estimated tota[l project cost is 75% higher than the appraisal



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
estimate due to worldwide price increases. However, foreign exchange costs
are lower than appraisal estimates as the contractors are locally based.
Total traffic at the project ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a
reasonable financial rate of return is being earned. By June 1977 the
Philippine Port Authority had taken over 7 of the 18 national ports.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1979
Overall progress on construction has been generally satisfactory,
with about 90% of the project works completed. However, progress on one of
the national roads is not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project
completion by about 12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-
financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed
engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in
August 1976. Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project was
substantially completed in October 1977. The total cost of the project has
risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of inflation
following the oil price increase in late 1973. About $12 million still remains
undisbursed and hence the Closing Date has been postponed to June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the
private sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of
loans, restrictive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending
terms offered by DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending
institutions in the Philippines. However, these problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments have begun to move again.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government in improving the national
and rural road systems and their maintenance. Most construction contracts
have been awarded. The major problem is delayed implementation of the road
restoration/maintenance component of the project. However, priority attention
has been given to this problem and, as a result, implementation of these
components are expected to accelerate during the coming year.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Education Sector
Credit No. 349  Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of danuary 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All of the 32 project institutions have been
completed and three fourths of the technical assistance program has been
completed. Cost overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of
inflation and earlier lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of
equipment purchased has been reduced to compensate for cost overruns.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976: Date of Effectiveness: July 29. 1976; Closing
Date: June 30. 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government s
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are more than twice the planned
level.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is assisting the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of all aspects of the project is on schedule.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T  Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 MiLlion Loans of June 9. 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan is financing: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. A paper on the
status of this project was submitted to the Executive Directors in December 1977.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is financing: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
The Loan was made effective on September 9, 1977. Progress is generally
satisfactory according to the review of the preliminary engineering studies
and detailed design of the water supply construction.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296 of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which has
been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978. A tariff increase was
approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to enable NPC to achieve
the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in operation.
Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended. Costs
have increased by 21%, largely due to inflation.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to f:Lnance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao. Subloans
are expected to be fully committed by mid-1978.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirable and
financially viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1977, commitments
for subloans totaling $19.1 million had been made. While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed.  After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeiling well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, lbecause of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were initially much
slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector
as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors approved a
proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries
on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977. As of November 2, 1977, commitments for subloans
amounting to $17.5 million had been made. In addition, $5.4 million had been
disbursed against the allocation for small- and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This Loan was signed on February 9, 1978 and is not yet effective.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION PISO) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
a. Time taken to prepare project: About three months
b. The agency that prepared the
project                         PISO
c. Date of the first presenta-
tion to the Bank and date
of the first Bank missien
to consider the project    :  February 1977
d. Date of departure of
appraisal mission            :  July 1977
e. Date of completion of nego-
tiations                        March 1978
f. Planned date of effectiveness: On or before June 30, 1978.
Section .I - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) PISO's free limit would be set at $750,000 with an aggregate limit
of $5 million (para. 47);
(b) PISO would increase its equity by about P 10 million, bringing
its total equity to no less than P 37.8 million (para. 50, condition
of effectiveness);
(c) PISO would include economic rate of return analysis in appraising
projects costiLng over $750,000 (para. 51); and
(d) PISO would maiLntain long-term debt/equity ratio of 4:1 and total
debt/equity ratio of 10:1 (para. 59).



