CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1555 PH
Project Agreement
(PISO Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION
Dated May 8, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1555 PH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1978, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and the PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION (hereinafter
called PISO), established and operating under the laws of Republic
of the Philippines (hereinafter called the Guarantor):
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Philippine National Bank (hereinafter called the
Borrower), the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower, for
relending to PISO, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PISO
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are herein-
after set forth; and
WHEREAS PISO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Def Intions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth, nnd the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Charter" means the Articles of Incorporation of PISO
dated February 15, 1974, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "By-laws" means the by-laws of PISO dated March 21,
1974, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy of PISO dated March 29, 1978; and
(d) "Strategy Statement" means the statement of corporate
strategy dated March 29, 1978 which enunciates general direc-
tions of PISO's operations and activities.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of PISO
Section 2.01. (a) PISO shall carry out the Project, described
in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, and conduct its operations
and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate economic, financial and investment standards
and practices, with qualified and experienced management and in
accordance with its Charter and Statement of Policy.
(b) PISO shall cause the proceeds of the Loan to be applied
exclusively to expenditures on Investment Projects in respect of
which amounts have been withdrawn from the Loan Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, PISO shall submit Investment
Projects to the Bank for approval or ' c authorization for with-
drawals to be made from the Loan Account.
(b) (i) When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval, PISO shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with a description of the Investment Enterprise and
of the Investment Project to be financed thereunder (including a
description of the expenditures for such Investment Project
proposed to be financed by PISO and an appraisal of the Investment
Project) and the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or
investment, including the schedule of amortization of the sub-
loan, or of repayment to the Borrower of the amount to be used
for the investment, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; and (ii) such appraisals will include a
calculation of the internal financial rate of return and an
evaluation of the economic rate of return, established in accor-
dance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) Each request by PISO for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan
shall contain a summary description of the Investment Enterprise
and the Investment Project (including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.


﻿-3-
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, (i) shall
not extend beyond 15 years from the date of approval by the Bank
of such Investment Project or of authorization by the Bank to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of such Investment
Project, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Bank and PISO shall otherwise agree, PISO
shall submit applications for approval of Investment Projects
pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this Section and
requests for authorizations to withdraw from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section on or
before December 31, 1980.
Section 2.03. (a) PISO undertakes that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms
whereby PISO shall obtain, by written agreement or other appro-
priate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank and of PISO, including, in the case of any such sub-loan
and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
such investment: (i) the right to require the Investment Enter-
prise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) the right to require that the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan or investment be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) the right of the Bank and of PISO to inspect such goods and
the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Invest-
ment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) the right to require that the Investment
Enterprise take out and maintain such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice and that, without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the sub-loan or investment to the place of use or
installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information
as the Bank or PISO shall reasonably request relating to the


﻿-4-
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and (vi) the right of PISO
to suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise
to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agree-
ment with PISO.
(b) PISO shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the interests
of the Bank, the Borrower and PISO, (ii) comply with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
(c) PISO shall submit to the Bank, for its prior approval,
any substantial change proposed to be made in respect of the
repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.04. (a) PISO shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the sub-
loans and investments, the Project, the Investment Enterprises,
the Investment Projects, the sub-loans and the investments and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account in respect of the sub-loans and investments
or by such later date as the Bank shall request, PISO shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
and initial operations of the Investment Projects, their costs and
the benefits derived and to be derived from them, the performance
by PISO and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 2.05. PISO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PISO shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or amending, abrogating or
waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank and PISO shall otherwise
agree, PISO: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business and (ii) shall take all action necessary to


﻿-5-
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.07. PISO shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of PISO under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. Except as the Bank and PISO may otherwise
agree, PISO shall not, after the date of this Agreement, amend its
Charter, by-laws, the Statement of Policy, or the Strategy State-
ment.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. PISO shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of PISO and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. PISO shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PISO and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank and PISO shall otherwise
agree, PISO shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur:
(i) any long-term debt if, after the incurring of such long-term
debt, the consolidated long-term debt of PISO and all its Sub-
sidiaries then incurred and outstanding would exceed four times


﻿-6-
the consolidated capital and surplus of PISO and all its Sub-
sidiaries; and (ii) total debt, if after the incurring of such
total debt, the consolidated total debt of PISO and all its
Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater then
ten times the consolidated capital and surplus of PISO and all its
Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "long-term debt" means any debt incurred by
PISO or any Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred, including debt assumed or
guaranteed by PISO or by a Subsidiary; provided, that current
repayments of such long-term debt due and payable within one year
shall be excluded therefrom.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date and to
the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan contract
or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but
only to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of peso debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable in peso for the purposes of servic-
ing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of PISO and all its Sub-
sidiaries" means the total amount of debt of PISO and all its
Subsidiaries excluding (i) debt owed by PISO to any Subsidiary or
by any Subsidiary to PISO or to any other Subsidiary and (ii) debt
referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) and (iii) of this Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of PISO
and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of PISO
and of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of PISO in any Subsidiary, or
of any such Subsidiary in PISO or in any other Subsidiary, (ii)
the amount of the PISO loans and (iii) such amount of any other
loan which the Bank may determine to be included in the con-
solidated capital and surplus of PISO.


﻿-7-
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank and PISO shall otherwise
agree, PISO shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity in
respect of any of its borrowings (other than deposits) having an
original term exceeding one year.
Section 3.05. PISO shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
various currencies (including peso) used in its borrowing and
lending operations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Bank and PISO shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that
end, the Bank and PISO shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance by PISO of
its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition
of PISO and other matters relating to the purpose of the Loan.
(b) PISO shall furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration,
operations and financial condition of PISO and its Subsidiaries,
if any.
Section 4.02. PISO shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of
the service thereof or the performance by PISO of its obligations
under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. PISO shall enable the Bank's representatives to
inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of PISO thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PISO:
Philippine Investments Systems
Organization
PISO Building, Pasay Road, Makati,
Metro Manila, Republic of the Philippines
Cable address:                     Telex:
PISOPHIL                            PISOPN 3237
Manila


﻿Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of or by PISO may be taken or executed
by its Chairman, or by such other person or persons as PISO
shall designate in writing, and PISO shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION
By 1sf Victor Barrios
Authorized Representative


