CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1555 PH
Guarantee Agreement
(PISO Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 8, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1555 PH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIP-
PINES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Philippines National Bank (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
IL


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Guarantor: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any assets of the
Guarantor as security for any external debt except as otherwise
disclosed in writing by the Guarantor to the Bank; and (ii)
undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any
such lien shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and rat-
ably, and at no cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect. The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of the
creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "assets of the Guarantor"
means assets of the Guarantor or of any agency of the Guarantor,
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any other insti-
tution performing the functions of a central bank.
The Guarantor further undertakes that, within the limits of
the laws in force in its territories, it will make the foregoing
undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Guarantor is unable within the limits of the laws in
force in its territories to make this undertaking effective,
the Guarantor will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank.


﻿-3-
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take
any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations contained in the Loan Agreement
and with the performance by PISO of its obligations contained in
the Project Agreement and in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or
appropriate to enable the Borrower and PISO to perform such
obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-4-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Mario Belisario
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 1sf S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


