CONFORMED COPY
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(PISO Project)
between
PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
and
PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION
Dated May 8, 1978


﻿SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1978 between PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
(hereinafter referred to as PNB) and PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS
SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION (hereinafter referred to as PISO).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
referred to as the Loan Agreement) the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter referred to as the
Bank) and PNB, the Bank has agreed to make available to PNB a
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million United States dollars ($15,000,000) on the terms and
conditions set forth therein (hereinafter referred to as the
"Loan");
WHEREAS under the terms of the Loan Agreement PNB has agreed
to enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with PISO whereby PNB
will relend to PISO the amounts made available to PNB under the
Loan Agreement for the purposes set forth therein;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
referred to as the Project Agreement) between the Bank and PISO,
PISO has undertaken certain obligations to the Bank in connection
with the use of the proceeds of the Loan; and
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
referred to as the Guarantee Agreement) between the Republic of
the Philippine (hereinafter referred to as the Guarantor) and
the Bank, the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank entering
into the Loan Agreement with PNB, has agreed to guarantee the
obligations of PNB under the said Loan Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE it is hereby agreed by the parties hereto as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement) have the respective meanings
therein set forth, and the loan provided for in this Agreement
shall be called the "Subsidiary Loan".


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Subsidiary Loan
Section 2.01. PNB agrees to lend to PISO, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount
in various currencies not to exceed in the aggregate the equiva-
lent of $15,000,000, corresponding to the amount from time to time
withdrawn from the Loan Account under the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Applications for withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement and Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement and any request for special commit-
ments shall be prepared, signed and presented directly by PISO to
the Bank, on behalf of PNB, prior to the Closing Date, together
with all such documents and other evidence in support of the
application as shall be requested by the Bank in connection with
such withdrawals and requests.
Section 2.03. PISO shall promptly advise PNB of all actions
taken pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement and shall furnish
to PNB copies of all documents and communications exchanged
between the Bank and PISO.
Section 2.04. The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
shall be the equivalent of the value of the currency or currencies
withdrawn from the Loan Account.
Section 2.05. Each amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be
deemed to be relent to PISO on the date, and in the currency or
currencies, of the corresponding withdrawal by PISO from the Loan
Account.
Section 2.06. PISO shall repay to PNB the principal amount of
the Subsidiary Loan as follows:
(a) Repayment shall be made in accordance with the Amortiza-
tion Schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time pursuant to
Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
(b) PISO shall repay to PNB such amount as shall be equiva-
lent to the amount in foreign currency or currencies payable by
PNB to the Bank, such equivalent to be determined on the basis of
the effective market rate in the Philippines prevailing at the
time of such repayment.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. (a) PISO shall pay to PNB:
(i) interest at the rate of 7.50% per year on the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan outstanding
from time to time; and
(ii) an amount equivalent to the commitment charge which
PNB has to pay to the Bank, determined on the basis
of the effective exchange rate in the Philippines
prevailing at the time such commitment charge is
payable.
(b) Interest shall accrue from the respective dates on which
amounts shall be withdrawn from the Loan Account and shall be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Section 2.08. PISO shall further pay to PNB:
(a) 0.443% per year on the principal amount of the Sub-
sidiary Loan outstanding from time to time, or such other charge
as shall be agreed between the Bank, PNB and PISO;
(b) all other amounts which PNB shall be required to pay to
the Bank pursuant to the provisions of the Loan Agreement and the
General Conditions; and
(c) the amounts of any expenses properly incurred by PNB (i)
in connection with the purchase of the foreign currencies in which
the Loan has to be repaid by PNB to the Bank, or (ii) generally in
connection with enforcement of its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan.
Section 2.09. (a) The payments provided for in Section 2.07
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 shall, subject to the provision
of paragraph (a) of Section 3.03 of this Agreement, be made
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
(b) All other payments by PISO to PNB pursuant to this
Agreement shall be made upon demand by PNB.
Section 2.10. (a) PISO, upon agreement with PNB 60 days or
more in advance, may repay in advance of maturity all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan, in which
case PNB shall prepay an equivalent amount of the Loan, but only


﻿in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions
relating to repayment of the Loan in advance of maturity by PNB to
the Bank.
(b) Unless the Bank and PISO shall otherwise agree, if a
sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to PISO in advance of
maturity, or if a sub-loan or an investment or any part thereof
shall be sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of for value,
PISO shall promptly notify the Bank and PNB and shall pay to PNB
on the next following interest payment date, together with the
premium specified in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement unless such
premium has been waived by the Bank, an amount of the Subsidiary
Loan equal to: (i) in case of a sub-loan the amount withdrawn
from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or the said
part thereof; or (ii) in the case of an investment, the excess,
if any, of the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect
of such investment, on the said part thereof, over the amount of
the Subsidiary Loan theretofore repaid to PNB in respect of such
investment. PNB shall, in accordance with Section 2.09 of the Loan
Agreement, repay to the Bank any repayments made to it pursuant to
this sub-paragraph (b).
ARTICLE III
Miscellaneous
Section 3.01. (a) PISO undertakes to assign to PNB all liens
it shall receive from an investment enterprise as security for a
sub-loan made to such investment enterprise if such sub-loan shall
be made wholly out of the proceeds of the Loan; if such sub-loan
shall be made only partly out of the proceeds of the Loan, then
PISO shall assign to PNB only such part of the lien as propor-
tionately corresponds to the amount of Loan funds used by PISO for
such sub-loan.
(b) PISO shall bear all costs and expenses arising in con-
nection with the assignment of liens to PNB pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section.
Section 3.02. Whenever PISO shall pay to PNB any amounts owed
to PNB pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, after the
date specified in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, PISO shall
pay an additional charge at the rate of twelve per cent (12%) per
annum on all amounts so owed from the date so specified to the
date of actual payment.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.03. (a) Except as PNB and PISO shall otherwise
agree, PISO shall make the payments provided for in Section 2.06,
Section 2.07, paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 2.08 and paragraph
(b) of Section 2.10 of this Agreement not less than five (5) days
prior to the due date thereof in order to give ample time to PNB
to make payments to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of the
Loan Agreement. No reduction of interest shall be permitted
because of such prior payment.
(b) Except as PNB and PISO shall otherwise agree, all
payments by PISO to PNB shall be made in pesos.
Section 3.04. PNB shall be entitled to one member on the
Board of Directors of PISO as long as the Subsidiary Loan or
any portion thereof remains outstanding.
Section 3.05. If the right under the Loan Agreement to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended or
terminated, regardless of the reason therefor, then the Subsidiary
Loan shall likewise and simultaneously be suspended for the same
period, or terminated, as the case may be.
Section 3.06. If any of the events specified below shall
occur, PNB may declare the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately and upon such
declaration all amounts due with respect to the Subsidiary Loan
shall become due and payable immediately, anything in this Agree-
ment to the contrary notwithstanding:
(a) a default shall have occurred in the performance by
PISO of any obligation or covenant under this Agreement, and such
default shall continue for a period of 30 days; and
(b) any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of the Loan
Agreement shall have occurred and the Bank shall have declared the
principal of the Loan then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately.
Section 3.07. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date on which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿-6-
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective names
and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
By /s/ Oscar Carino
Authorized Representative
PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION
By /s/ Victor Barrios
Authorized Representative


