Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11861
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1225-NIR)
MAY 6, 1993
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department V
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank 2uthorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
At Appraisal                            US$ I = CFAF 270
Intervening Years Average               US$ 1 = CFAF 390
Completion Year Average                 US$ 1 = CFAF 275
ABBREVIATIONS
BCEAO   -       Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Ouest
BDRN    -       Banque de Developpement de le Republique du Niger
CFAF    -       Communaute Financiere Africaine Franc
CMAN    -       Centre des Metiers d'Art du Niger
GON      -      Government of Niger
IDA      -      International Development Association
OPEN    -       Office de Promotion de l'Enterprise Nigerienne
PAIPCE  -       Programme d'Appui aux Initiatives Privees et a la Creation d'Emplois
PCR      -      Project Completion Report
SAR      -      Staff Appraisal Report
SME      -      Small- and Middle-Sized Enterprise
STB      -      Societe Tunisienne de Banque
TA       -      Technical Assistance
UMOA   -        Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine
UNDP    -       United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO   -       United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W"hington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offlice of Director-General
Operatlon Evaluaton
May 6, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Niger -
Industrial Development Project (Credit 1225-N1R)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report on Niger - Industrial
Development Project (Credit 1225-NIR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No contribution was
received from the Borrower.
The main objectives of the project were to provide a line of credit to the Banque de
Developpement de la Republique du Niger (BRDN) in support of small-medium scale industry (SMI),
and strengthen two agencies that promoted and extended technical assistance to SMI. These objectives
were not attained.
Deficiencies in design, absence of an enabling environment, adverse macroeconomic
developments, BRDN's unsound lending practices and financial position, and lack of commitment by
the Government and BDRN's management resulted in the liquidation of all three intermediaries.
The PCR is of high quality, comprehensive in its coverage, and candid in its assessment of
project outcomes.
Given the demise of the institutions involved, the project outcome is rated as very
unsatisfactory, and its impact on institutional development as negligible.
Attachment
This docmat ha a rerictd distribution and may be used by redpients ooly in the pwformance of thir ofeil ds. Its
contetu uay not otwerwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1225-NIR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .                     .................................................
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ......................................iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ................                                                                           1
1.  Project Identity  ............................................                                                                       1
2.  Background  ..............................................                                                                           1
3.  Project Objectives and Description  ................................                                                                 2
Project Objectives   .......................................                                                                  2
Project Description  .......................................                                                                  2
Changes in Project Scope  ...................................                                                                 3
4.  Design and Organization  ......................................                                                                      4
Institutions  ............................................                                                                    4
Changes in Design  .......................................                                                                    6
Evaluation of Project Design  .................................                                                               6
5.  Project Implementation  .......................................                                                                      7
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up   .........................                                                         7
Implementation   .........................................                                                                    7
Procurement ...........................................                                                                       8
Disbursement and Project Costs  ...............................                                                               8
6.  Project Results  ............................................                                                                        8
Attainment of Objectives  ...................................                                                                 8
7.  Project Sustainability   ........................................                                                                  10
8.  Bank Performance  ..........................................                                                                       10
9.  Findings and Lessons Learned   ..................................                                                                  11
10. Borrower Performance   .......................................                                                                      11
11. Performance of Consultants  ....................................                                                                    12
12. Project Documentation and Data   .................................                                                                  12
ANNEX   1:  STATUS  OF  LINE  OF  CREDIT   ...........................                                                                  13
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .......                                                                        14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page
PART HI - STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ...........................                                                                                                        14
1.    Related  Bank  Loans  and  Credits    ...............                                             ..................                                            14
2.    Project Timetable                           ......................                                   ....................                                        14
3.    Credit Disbursements   .......                               ............                 ..            ...................                                      15
4.    Project Costs  and  Financing   ......                               ...........                ...................                                              16
5.    Project Result                     ........................                                       .....................                                          16
A.   Direct Benefits    .........................................                                                                                               16
B.  Technical Assistance  (TA) and  Studies   ...........................                                                                                       17
6.    Status of Covenants                            .....................                                  ....................                                       18
7.   Use of Bank Resources .......                                   ........... ..                           ...................                                      19
A.   Staff Inputs  ............................................                                                                                                 19
B.   Supervision  Missions  ......................................                                                                                             20



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1225-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Development Project in Niger
for which Credit 1225-NIR in the amount of US $16 million (SDR 14 million) was approved on April
20, 1982. The Credit was due to close on December 31, 1987. After three extensions, requested by
the Government of Niger, the Credit was finally closed on December 31, 1990. The amount of the
credit utilized was US $14.6 million (SDR 12.2 million at prevailing exchange rates) with the final
disbursement (of previously committed funds) being made in April 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the Sahelian Department, Africa
Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and m of the PCR) and is based on information from
the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Memorandum, Credit and Project Agreements, Supervision
Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and Beneficiaries, internal Bank
correspondence and interviews with project task managers and Resident Mission staff. There was no
Project Completion mission.
The Resident Mission in Niamey attempted to have Part II completed by the Borrower.
However, since all three credit beneficiaries have been dissolved (between 1985 and 1990), and it has
been over 24 months since the Credit closing date, it is unlikely that useful information will be
forthcoming.



I
I



- Hi -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1225-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
Conceived as a follow-up operation to the Industrial and Artisan Sector Employment Creation
Project (Credit 809-NIR approved in May 1978), the goal of the Industrial Development Project (also
called the "Second IDF Project") was to continue to diversify the economic base of the Nigerien
economy through further strengthening of the sectors outside agriculture and mining and the institutional
infrastructure related to these sectors. To this end, the project was to (i) provide a line of credit to
enable BDRN to continue its term financing operations, including lending to new small, medium-sized
and labor intensive enterprises, lending to other new enterprises, and easing access to investment
resources needed to strengthen existing enterprises; and (ii) finance technical assistance to BDRN,
OPEN and CMAN, and modest capital assistance to OPEN, to help strengthen internal efficiency and
improve their services to Nigerien entrepreneurs. The project placed special emphasis on providing
technical assistance to the growing indigenous construction subsector (through OPEN) and to the leather
artisanal subsector (through CMAN).
ImDlementation Experience
The appraisal was completed in February 1982 and the Credit and Project agreements signed
in April 1982. After some delays in seizing necessary decisions on the part of the Government of Niger
(GON), the Credit became effective in December 1982.
The worldwide economic downturn, which began in 1980-81, quickly exposed the fragile
condition of the institutions supported by the project. BDRN, a commercial and development bank
appraised as a reasonably sound institution, had been selected as the key vehicle for project
implementation. Its critical financial condition, largely the result of years of improper lending practices
and inadequate internal monitoring, was revealed in 1983. It became apparent in the early phases of
implementation that a shift in project emphasis was necessary. The Project Agreement was amended
in December 1987, thereby officially shifting the project's focus from developing industry to basically
salvaging BDRN (paras. 3.3, 4.21-4.25). This objective proved to be extremely costly and could not
be achieved (para. 6.13-6.14).
Deficiencies in project design (para. 4.3) and general economic malaise in the country, made
effective project supervision difficult but all the more necessary. A combination of high quality
technical assistance, close and responsive Bank supervision, and firm political commitment on the part
of the Government and BDRN management was essential if the project was to be prevented from
completely unravelling. Technical assistance was inadequate and of doubtful quality (para. 11.02), Bank
supervision was generally lacking in depth and was not sufficiently timely in response (paras. 8.02-



- iv -
8.03), and the Government and BDRN management lacked the ability and political will to take difficult
decisions (paras. 10.01-10.02).
The original Closing Date of December 31, 1987 was extended three times in order to adjust
the scope and conditions of the project. The first extension was mainly aimed at continuing to support
BDRN's rehabilitation and OPEN's privatization (para. 3.3). The second and third extension were
allowed to facilitate BDRN's restructuring and privatization. The Credit was finally closed on
December 31, 1990.
Project Results
The attainment of project objectives ranged from marginal to dismal. The line of credit
component to support industrial development was reduced from SDR 10.46 million to SDR 7.05 million
of which only SDR 4 million was actually disbursed (para. 3.33 and Annex 1). According to Resident
Mission staff, the small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) financed are doing reasonably well but
most of the larger enterprises have either failed or in arrears (para. 6.1 and Annex 1).
The credit appraisal capabilities of BDRN's development department were strengthened and
data-processing of the bank's lending operations was partially computerized.  However these
improvements, and additional technical assistance financed by the project, were not sufficient to save
this institution (para. 6.12). Attempts begun in 1989 to privatize BDRN concluded with its eventual
liquidation in mid-1990 and the creation of SONIBANK, with Societe Tunisienne de Banque (STB) as
the major single shareholder and manager. SONIBANK is currently owned by STB (25%), BCEAO
(25%) and GON (20%); to date, the 30% equity capital expected from the private sector is still to
come. In all, about SDR 3.85 million was spent on training and consulting services provided to BDRN.
The two other institutions supported by the project, CMAN and OPEN were dissolved in 1985
and 1989 respectively. Supervision reports do not elaborate on the evolution of the sub-sectors (leather,
construction, industry, etc.) supported by these institutions (para. 6.15).
Studies financed under the project in the areas of banking, industrial incentives and petroleum
distribution have not led to any significant sectoral reforms (para. 6.16). The project provided some
financing to civil servants who had voluntarily retired from the government to establish their own
enterprises. According to supervision reports there was modest success in the creation of such
businesses, however, no information is provided about their performance.
Project Sustainability
On balance, apart from the SMEs and possibly financing the inventories of the Grande Marche
fire victims, there are almost no testaments to the project's success. Technical assistance and capital
provided for institution strengthening have not resulted in a single institution supported by the project
outliving the Credit closing date; recommendations of the studies financed have not been implemented
nor resulted in improved sectoral policies.
Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned include the need to integrate the financing of investment projects and
technical assistance for institutional support with the reform of critical sectoral policies. If funds are
given to the wrong institution, working under skewed incentives, without proper accountability



- v -
mechanisms, the result will be disastrous, even if the activity financed (either trade or industrial
development) is by itself profitable. The objective of sectoral development can only be adequately
fulfilled in the presence of an enabling environment (paras. 4.334.34). In addition, project design
should attempt to identify, and adequately prepare for, the downside risks to a project. Since all
contingencies cannot be predicted during preparation, the responsibility of supervision staff to effect on-
going course corrections becomes essential for achieving project goals.
Investment and technical assistance projects should incorporate some key performance measures
in the project design by which supervision teams can evaluate project progress and the quality of
technical assistance. In the case of the subject project, about 50 percent of total project costs were
disbursed for technical assistance and consultancy services, yet there was virtually no critical assessment
of whether, and to what extent, the objectives of this assistance were being met. A corollary to this
is the need for Task Managers to devote careful and critical attention to the preparationlapproval of
Terms of Reference for technical assistance and consultant services.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1225-NIR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Name                Industrial Development Project
Credit Number       1225-NIR
RVP Unit            Africa Region
Country             Republic of Niger
Sector              Industry and services supporting, but not based on, uranium or
agriculture; other industry outside the uranium and agriculture sectors;
finance and banking; artisanal and construction.
2.    Bacgund
2.01   Niger belongs to the West African Monetary Union (UMOA) which shares a common Central
Bank (BCEAO) and a common currency (the CFA Franc). Full convertibility of the CFA Franc into
French Francs and liberal trade policies followed by UMOA members have strengthened trade links
between Niger and its UMOA neighbors. An agreement among UMOA members allows BCEAO to
impose some discipline over the monetary and fiscal policies of member countries in order to maintain
convertibility.  Until 1989 BCEAO's monetary management was characterized by the use of
economically inefficient instruments which included regulated and preferential interest rates and credit
allocation for selected "priority" sectors such as the Government, small-scale enterprises, short-term
crop financing and housing.
2.02   Awareness of shortcomings in BCEAO's financial policies resulted in an IDA supported reform
program initiated in 1989 aimed at bringing BCEAO's policies more in line with 'international'
standards. The program has resulted in some reform such as the abandonment of preferential discount
rates, tightened control of credit to the public sector, and streamlined supervision of banks in the
BCEAO zone by a supranational supervision commission. BCEAO rules remain less stringent than
international rules, especially in the area of external independent audits, which are still not required.
2.03   Niger's economy has developed along dual lines, with slow, but steady, growth in the traditional
rural sector based on agriculture and more substantial, but fragile (because of its dependence on world
uranium markets), growth in uranium production and earnings. On balance, the economy's performance
during the 1970s was good, particularly by Sahelian standards. This was largely due to increased
revenues from uranium exports and the Government's relatively prudent economic policies. The 1980s
started with signs of a longer term economic crisis. Between 1979 and 1982 uranium prices fell by
more than 50%, exports stagnated and revenues declined sharply from CFAF 25 billion to CFAF 13
billion. Agricultural production also declined and continued unfavorable climate forced Niger to
increase grain imports.



- 2 -
2.04   The uncertainties associated with uranium mining and agriculture resulted in emphasis being
placed on the development of "secteurs d'accompagnements" and local handicrafts as a means of
augmenting employment and income for the population (estimated at 5.5 million at the time of
appraisal) and diversifying the country's economic base. The "secteurs d'accompagnements" were those
sectors which supported, and benefitted from, the growth in agriculture and uranium mining. The
Government's diversification strategy was reflected in the objectives of IDA's Industrial Development
Project (subject project - Credit 1225-NIR) and its precursor, the Industrial and Artisan Sector
Employment Creation Project 1/.
2.05   In addition to employment creation, the purpose of the Industrial and Artisan Development
project was to strengthen sectoral institutions through the provision of technical and financial assistance.
The institutions receiving technical assistance, and identified as vehicles for the implementation of this
project, were the Banque de Developpement de le Republique du Niger (BDRN), which was to serve
as the focal point of project coordination, the Office de Promotion de l'Enterprise Nigerienne (OPEN)
and the Centre des Metiers d'Art du Niger (CMAN). Project objectives were only partly achieved:
(i) six enterprises were financed, instead of the forty estimated during appraisal, and about 40% of the
job creation target was met; (ii) the technical assistance included in the project was able to develop the
identified institutions to a considerable extent but substantial gaps remained.
2.06   The appraisal of the Industrial Development Project judged the Industrial and Artisan
Development project to have had a positive impact on institution building, vis-a-vis BDRN and OPEN,
while being less successful in employment creation. It was also felt that it was premature to assess the
full impact of the project, especially in developing the leather artisanal sub-sector.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1    Proiect ObWectives: Conceived as a follow-up operation to the first project, the goal of the
Industrial Development Project was to continue to diversify the economic base of the Nigerienne
economy through further strengthening of the sectors outside agriculture and mining and the institutional
infrastructure related to these sectors. To this end, the project would (i) provide a line of credit to
enable BDRN to continue its term financing operations, including lending to new small, medium-sized
and labor intensive enterprises, lending to other new enterprises, and easing access to investment
resources needed to strengthen existing enterprises; and (ii) finance technical assistance to BDRN,
OPEN and CMAN, and modest capital assistance to OPEN, to help strengthen internal efficiency and
improve their services to Nigerienne entrepreneurs. The project placed special emphasis on providing
technical assistance to the growing indigenous construction subsector (through OPEN) and to the leather
artisanal subsector (through CMAN).
3.2    Project Description: The Project, involving a total credit of SDR 14 million (equivalent to US
$ 16 million at the time of appraisal) included a line of credit, to be administered by BDRN, and three
technical assistance programs to support and strengthen BDRN, OPEN and CMAN. The IDA credit
of US$ 16 million was made available to finance 75% of the total project cost estimated at US $ 21.3
million.
1/ IDA Credit 809-NIR - Credit for US$ 5 million for the Industrial and Artisan Sector Employment
Creation Project was approved in May 1978, became effective in February 1979 and was fully
disbursed in June 1983.



- 3 -
3.21   Part A: Bangue de Developpement de le Republigue du Niger (BDRN)
(a)    Line of Credit: US$ 12 million (SDR 10.5 million) for investment in sub-projects with
20% being earmarked for small-scale and labor-intensive enterprises. Resources on-lent
to BDRN (by the Government) to provide medium, long-term or equity financing for
viable development projects in support sectors including small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs), industrial rehabilitation, agro-processing, manufacturing, repair
facilities, etc. On-lending annual interest rates between the Borrower and BDRN were
set at 7.5% for loans to small-scale or labor-intensive enterprises and 10% for all other
investment enterprises. BDRN's margins on these sub-loans were to be at least three
percentage points.
(b)    Technical Assistance: Grant of US$ 0.8 million (SDR 0.7 million) to BDRN for:
i)    Strengthening the Development Department by financing advisors and providing
staff training.
ii)    Establishing an in-house training unit by financing specialists, consultants,
materials and equipment.
iii)   Improving the computerized data processing and management information
system.
3.22   Part B: Office de Promotion de l'Enterprise Nigerienne (OPEN)
(a)    US$ 1.88 million (SDR 1.66 million) as a grant to address operating constraints, help
establish a Technical Assistance Unit for indigenous construction contractors and
contribute (SDR 0.47 million) to the construction of OPEN's premises.
(b)    General Support
(i)    Improve OPEN's organization and strategy in assisting SMEs and artisans.
(ii)    Conduct strategy related studies to identify import substitution and export
opportunities, and forms of assistance most appropriate to the artisan sector.
(iii)   Finance the development of OPEN-sponsored training of workers in technical
subjects such as bookkeeping, woodworking, electricity and plumbing.
3.23   Part C: Centre des Metiers d'Art du Niger (CMAN)
A grant of US$ 1.2 million (SDR 1.05 million) to be passed on to CMAN to provide technical
service to improve the organization's management, production and marketing activities, and finance the
establishment/development of separate training facilities and support services for all leather artisans.
3.3    Changes in Project Scope: Slow disbursements in the line of credit, BDRN's growing financial
difficulties and CMAN's dissolution in 1985 made changes in project scope necessary during the course
of project implementation. Agreement between the Government and IDA to place greater emphasis on
BDRN's rehabilitation was reflected in the Amendment to the Development Credit and Project



- 4 -
Agreements formalized in December 1987. Emphasis was also placed on financing studies to determine
conditions needed to promote entrepreneurship and the private sector. Specific changes included:
3.31   On-lending annual interest rates under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the Borrower
and BDRN were reduced from 7.5% to 4.5% on the outstanding principal amount to be on-lent to
investment enterprises which qualified as small-scale or labor-intensive, and from 10.0% to 6.5% on
the outstanding principal to be on-lent to all other investment enterprises. This adjustment was
precipitated by a reduction of 2% in BCEAO's lending rates in 1986. BDRN's margins on these sub-
loans were increased from at least three percentage points to at least four percentage points.
3.32  In November 1983, a consultant study on BDRN operations revealed the bank's precarious
financial condition, which was, in fact, already known internally and to the GON. Based on the
consultant study, in October 1984 IDA presented the Government and BDRN with an action plan
spelling out specific measures aimed at restoring the bank's capital base and operational capability. This
plan (see para. 4.21) became an integral part of the IDA Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) undertaken
in 1986 and the new center-piece of the Industrial Development Project.
3.33   Reflecting the shift in project emphasis, reallocation of Credit proceeds resulted in an increase
in training and consultant services to BDRN from SDR 0.7 million to SDR 3.0 million and a 83%
increase (from SDR 1.2 million to SDR 2.2 million) in technical support to OPEN. Two new
categories, "Studies" (SDR 0.5 million) and "Goods and Services for the Creation of Enterprises" (SDR
0.45 million) were created. The latter category was included in a further attempt to stimulate private
entrepreneurship mainly by providing assistance to former civil servants, who had voluntarily resigned,
to start their own enterprises. This component was added as Part D to Schedule 2 of the Credit
Agreement and in Project Description (para. 3.2). The line of credit was reduced from SDR 2.18
million to SDR 1.55 million for small-scale and labor-intensive investment projects and from SDR 8.28
million to SDR 5.5 million for other investment projects.
3.34   Formalized in December 1987, the focus of the project had in fact shifted by 1985 from
developing industry to salvaging BDRN.
4.    Design and Organization
4.01   Conceived as a follow-up operation, the project design drew on the implementation experience
gained during the first project. The project design selected BDRN, OPEN and CMAN as the
institutions responsible for implementing project strategy and achieving project goals. At the time of
project preparation and appraisal, BDRN was judged to be a competent and sound financial institution.
The performance of OPEN and CMAN was showing signs of improvement. Correction of institutional
weaknesses was incorporated into project design by earmarking credit proceeds to finance the technical
assistance needed for institutional strengthening.
4.1   Institutions
Bangue de Developpement de le Republigue du Niger (BDRN)
4.11   Since its inception in 1961, BDRN had been both a commercial and development bank. At the
time of appraisal, Government and parastatal entities controlled 59% of BDRN shares; the rest of the
shares were distributed between Nigerien private investors (4.2%), BCEAO (12.3%) and foreign
shareholders (24.5%). The Minister of Finance was the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the



- 5 -
bank manager was generally a ministerial appointee.  The Government and non-government
shareholders (BCEAO and foreign shareholders) were represented on the Board.  Commercial
operations represented 70% of BDRN's operations and its primary source of profits. BDRN was the
leading term lending institution in the country and its Development Department was responsible for all
medium- and long-term financing. Interest rate structures for both commercial and development loans
were established and regulated by BCEAO.
4.12   Although it was judged to be one of the strongest development institutions in the Region,
technical assistance was to be provided by the project to strengthen the Development Department and
to improve the data processing and management information systems of the bank. The creation of
OPEN in 1978, and further support provided under the project, allowed OPEN to function as a technical
assistance partner to assist BDRN financed projects.
Office de Promotion de l'Enterprise Nigerienne (OPEN)
4.13   Essentially a state organization, OPEN was incorporated in 1978 with most of the technical and
financial assistance provided by a UNDP/UNIDO project of US$ 1.5 million (including five expatriate
advisors). IDA contributed US$ 0.5 million to finance one senior advisor and some initial operating
costs. At the time of appraisal, OPEN's budgetary requirements were being met by a Government
subsidy of CFAF 50 million (US$ 0.2 million) per annum. OPEN's General Manager (always a civil
servant) was responsible to a board composed of representatives of various ministries and professional
organizations. The Chairman of the Board was the Minister of Mines and Industry. The Staff
Appraisal Report mentioned that OPEN had insufficient professional staff and that staff turnover was
high. The Report indicated that the Government would agree to second three additional professionals
to OPEN before December 1983. Records do not elaborate the extent to which this was achieved.
4.14   OPEN was established to help promote new enterprises and investments, provide technical
assistance to new and on-going enterprises, prepare projects for BDRN financing and contribute to
building managerial, business and technical expertise in the country. Project appraisal recognized
weaknesses in OPEN's organization and operations. Provisions were made for augmenting the
professional staff, including hiring a senior advisor to assist OPEN's management in the critical areas
of strategy, organization and assistance to artisans. Funds were earmarked to improve OPEN's
promotion of training programs and a training unit was established to provide technical assistance to
small indigenous contractors in the construction sub-sector. The project also made a significant
contribution to finance the construction of OPEN premises.
4.15   Strategy related studies to identify investment opportunities connected with export promotion
and import substitution were included in the project design. Studies were to include a survey products
imported from neighboring countries and determine the level and nature of incentives required to
promote identified opportunities/sub-sectors.
Centre des Metiers d'Art du Niger (CMAN)
4.16   The first project appraisal identified the leather artisan subsector as the most promising segment
of the traditional sector. CMAN was established as a self-governing cooperative under this project (in
1980) to improve product design and production techniques and develop exports of leather artisan
products. Appraisal of the second project recognized weaknesses in CMAN's management, accounting
systems and in-house technical expertise. CMAN was essentially functioning as a parastatal employing
artisans and not as a promoter of artisanal entrepreneurship. The project was designed to address these



- 6 -
institutional shortcomings by having CMAN prepare a three-year action plan and budget (1982-85) and
ratify statutes establishing itself as an independent corporation. The new focus was to be on providing
training, support services and assistance to independent artisans. Disbursement of IDA funds was to
be contingent upon satisfactory implementation of these requirements.
4.2    Changes in Design: The project was officially redesigned in December 1987 to reflect changes
in scope (para. 3.3).
4.21   BDRN: The rehabilitation of BDRN was based, inter alia, upon tightening of BDRN credit to
the Government sector, improved loan recovery (from the public and private sectors), liquidity injection
(by Government), equity injection (from private and international entities) and a reduction in operating
costs (mainly through staff reductions).
4.22   OPEN: Weak management (a senior advisor was never hired, an industrial engineer was hired
instead), greater emphasis on promoting large scale enterprises (employing at least 50 persons) and the
absence of an effective mechanism to assist potential small enterprises prepare bankable projects
precipitated an IDA led effort to improve OPEN performance through privatization. Technical
assistance to OPEN was discontinued in 1987 pending the results of an IDA funded study aimed at
restructuring the organization. Based upon the study's recommendation, OPEN was liquidated in 1989.
4.23   CMAN: Inability to meet IDA conditions (para. 4.16), partly due to lack of Government
commitment, led to the dissolution (at the Government's request) of this organization in 1985. With
the dissolution of CMAN, this component was dropped from the project.
4.24   Studies (New category 6): Following the amendment to the Credit Agreement in December
1987, IDA financed studies were conducted to deepen the Bank's knowledge of the structure of
entrepreneurship in Niger. Studies focussed on developing incentives for industrial investment. Studies
were also directed at banking sector reform, creating a "societe de caution mutuelle" and at improving
petroleum distribution in the country.
4.25 Goods and Services for the Creation of Enterprises (New category 7): This category became
operational in 1989. The beneficiaries of this component were largely government employees who had
voluntarily retired to start their own enterprises. Part of these funds were also used to rehabilitate
BDRN employees who lost their jobs as a result of the bank's restructuring.
4.3    Evaluation of Project Design: The project, as conceived and designed, recognized the risks
posed by contemporary macro-economic developments and managerial weaknesses within OPEN and
CMAN. However, risks to the project posed by banking sector (particularly BDRN) policies and
practices, and the ability and willingness of the Government to undertake sectoral reform were not
adequately addressed. Where project risks were identified, conditionality or contingency planning was
virtually absent. The BDRN rehabilitation action plan attempted to correct this weakness, but
conditionality was not effectively applied.
4.31  Insufficient analysis was conducted on BDRN's asset structure and lending practices during
preparation. BDRN's fragile financial condition was revealed by the consultant study completed in
November 1983. The study indicated that BDRN had been plagued by inadequate management systems,
improper banking practices and general management weaknesses for several years. The downturn in
general economic conditions further aggravated the bank's financial difficulties. Failure to identify and



- 7 -
address sectoral and BDRN deficiencies during project preparation, meant that bolder, possibly
unrealistic, actions were required later on to rehabilitate the bank.
4.32   Although technical assistance was emphasized, performance based incentives and revenue
schemes were not instituted to allow OPEN and CMAN to develop as independent, self-sustaining
entities. If available, the inclusion of private capital and private sector management into these
organizations at the early stages may have improved their effectiveness. In the case of BDRN, the
fixing of lending margins by BCEAO resulted in margins which were often insufficient to cover the
costs of lending to SMEs and acted as a disincentive to promoting the bank's development portfolio.
This was further aggravated by BDRN's internal inability to monitor the costs and revenues associated
with its various activities.
4.33   Although the project could not be expected to bear the burden of overall sectoral reform, a line
of investment credit was made available without addressing the investment code, taxation policies,
licensing procedures, etc. The absence of an enabling policy environment, in addition to the economic
downturn, resulted in the extremely sluggish demand for the line of credit.
4.34   Banking sector reform was not specifically addressed until a Banking Sector Study was initiated
in 1989. This aspect seems important in retrospect since BDRN, a commercial and development bank,
was chosen as the central coordinating agency. Since it was not possible to separate the bank's
development and commercial operations, project preparation should have conducted a deeper, more
comprehensive analysis of the bank's practices and incorporated a reform component into the project
design.
4.35   The project was designed to take an integrative approach to achieving project objectives by
having BDRN, OPEN and CMAN responsible for their respective components. However, inter-
institutional relationships, particularly at the operating level, were not developed or addressed. The lack
of understanding or rapport between OPEN and BDRN was frequently manifested in BDRN's
Development department rejecting loan applications prepared by OPEN and criticizing OPEN's project
preparation capabilities.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1    Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up: A change of government, coinciding with the
appraisal mission in April 1981, resulted in the need for a post-appraisal mission in July 1981 to
reconfirm the Government's commitment to the objectives and strategy of the project. Aside from that
the project got off to a good start. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was completed in February 1982
and the Credit and Project agreements signed in April 1982. There was some delay in the signing of
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the Borrower (Government of Niger) and BDRN and the
credit finally became effective in December 1982. Since proceeds were still available from the Industry
and Artisan Sector Employment Creation Project the timing of credit effectiveness was of little
consequence.
5.2   Imglementation:
5.21   The worldwide economic downturn beginning in 1980-81 and the continued decline in global
uranium markets magnified deficiencies in the banking sector and adversely affected the general
investment climate. Essentially, it was BDRN's commercial trade related portfolio and not its
development or term lending portfolio, which was predominantly responsible for the urgent need for



- 8 -
the bank's rehabilitation and its eventual liquidation. BDRN staff's preoccupation with the commercial
portfolio, insufficient margins from its development operations and OPEN's difficulty in preparing
bankable projects contributed to the virtual stagnation in the development portfolio after 1983. Given
BDRN's important role in project implementation, its growing. difficulties seriously jeopardized the
achievement of project objectives.
5.22  IDA's support to BDRN survival was contingent upon Government/BDRN implementation of
the IDA action plan (para. 4.21). Some reforms were implemented - BDRN discontinued prefinancing
government investment and the Government assumed the financial liability for previous debts contracted
by the bank on its behalf. On the other hand, there were long delays in reducing operating costs and
improving loan recovery and BDRN's situation continued to deteriorate. Government and BDRN
management lacked the political will to effect necessary cutbacks in employment and the collection of
overdue loans. Bank supervision staff were not satisfied with GON and BDRN management
performance. However, IDA funding continued based upon the rationale that rehabilitation measures
were being adequately implemented, that the only development bank in the country could not be allowed
to collapse, and to prevent a "run" on the Nigerien banks --and its impact on the banking system-- if
BDRN collapsed.
5.23  In the case of the two other institutions, OPEN and CMAN, Bank supervision staff linked credit
disbursement more directly with project implementation by these agencies. Technical assistance and
studies aimed at performance improvement were financed by the project (para. 4.22-4.23). Strategy
related studies directed at surveying official and unofficial imports, proved impractical and were
abandoned.  Studies to identify regional investment opportunities proved largely fruitless.  The
assistance to small indigenous contractors was hampered by the slowdown in construction activity.
5.24   The original Closing Date of December 31, 1987 was extended three times in order to adjust
the scope and conditions of the project (para. 3.3). The Credit was finally closed on December 31,
1990.
5.3   Procurement: There were no particular procurement problems identified in the supervision
reports.
5.4    Disbursement and Project Costs: Disbursements under the line of credit were significantly
slower than planned owing to problems discussed above and eventually resulted in a change in project
scope and a reallocation of funds (para 3.3). In all, SDR 12.2 or about 87% of project proceeds were
disbursed with the final disbursement in March-April 1991. Variations in project costs between
appraisal and implementation reflect the reallocation of credit proceeds rather than any divergence in
actual costs.
5.41   A fixed sum contract, to be paid from IDA project funds, was awarded for the final audit
needed to close out BDRN's accounts. The contract was terminated because the audit had not been
completed by April 1991 and disbursements could not be continued as the project was officially closed.
The audit cabinet worked until the final disbursement in April 1991, the full contract sum was not
disbursed and, to date, BDRN's accounts are not closed and its real portfolio situation is unknown.
6.    Plroject Results
6.1    Attainment of Objectives: The attainment of project objectives ranged from marginal to
dismal.



- 9 -
6.11 Industrial Development/Investment Projects: The extent to which the objective of industrial
development was attained is difficult to assess from the Bank supervision reports, probably owing to
the preoccupation of supervision staff with institutional (mainly BDRN) support. About eleven small-
scale enterprises were financed (SDR 0.33 million versus an initial target of SDR 2.18 million, modified
to SDR 1.55 in 1987). Seven larger investments were financed (SDR 3.7 million versus an initial target
of SDR 8.28 million, modified to SDR 5.5 million in 1987). Of this latter amount, about SDR 1.6
million was used to finance the inventories of the victims of Niamey's Grand Marche fire in 1982
(mainly artisans and shopkeepers). The enterprises financed are listed in Annex 1. Interviews with
Bank Resident Mission staff (in June 1992) indicate that of the 11 small-scale enterprises financed, 7
were doing reasonably well. These businesses included agricultural products processing, fisheries,
poultry, electronics, printing and orthopedics. The larger investments were in areas including
pharmaceuticals, food processing and stationary. Excluding the financing of the inventories of the
Grande Marche shopkeepers, only 2 of the other investments are performing satisfactorily.
6.12   BDRN: The credit appraisal capabilities of BDRN's development department were strengthened
and data-processing of the bank's lending operations were partially computerized. However this was
not sufficient to save this institution. Internal management information systems inadequate and could
not provide the early warning signs needed to avoid financial difficulties, especially during an economic
slow-down. Billing information was often produced a year later than when loans/interest were due,
internal audit reports were late, management was weak and equipment inadequate. The technical service
provided was unsuccessful in dealing with BDRN's weaknesses. Attempts to improve the bank's credit
recovery operations and reduce operating costs were hampered by the lack of political commitment by
the Government and BDRN senior management. In 1989, upon the recommendation of a banking sector
study, the Government agreed to privatize BDRN. The move to privatize BDRN concluded with its
liquidation in mid-1990 and the creation of SONIBANK, with Societe Tunisienne de Banque (STB) as
the major single shareholder and manager.
6.13 SONIBANK: The current ownership of SONIBANK is: STB-25%, BCEAO-25% and GON-
20%; the 30% equity capital expected from the private sector is still to come. In all, SDR 3.85 million
was spent on training and consulting services provided to BDRN. Part of the funds were used to
finance STB technical assistance to SONIBANK and to help get the bank off to a healthy start. Current
performance of SONIBANK is good but on a virtually riskless portfolio, based upon customer deposits,
low external loans and no term lending. STB's technical assistance contract expires at the end of 1992.
Nigerienne counterparts are being trained and are expected to take over the management of
SONIBANK. (A major part of BDRN's office building is currently occupied by the Government mainly
because high maintenance costs make the building unattractive to the private sector).
6.14   The attempt to save or restructure BDRN cost the GON about CFAF 30 billion in lost deposits,
even more, if the lost deposits of the public enterprises which were forced to keep their accounts with
BDRN are taken into account. In essence, the costs of keeping BDRN afloat were exorbitant and its
liquidation should have taken place much earlier.
6.15   OPEN/CMAN: As discussed above (paras. 4.224.23) OPEN and CMAN were dissolved.
With CMAN's liquidation, support to the leather artisan subsector was dropped from the project.
Supervision reports do not elaborate on the subsequent status of this subsector. The liquidation of these
institutions was justified based on insufficient commitment to reform, however alternative actions to
support industrial development or the leather artisan subsector were not proposed nor attempted. The
project financed OPEN office building is currently occupied by a political organization.



- 10-
6.16   Studies: Banking sector studies financed by the project supported the SAL program. The study
was weak in-so-far that it concentrated on the financial structure of banks but made no judgement on
sectoral policy (this may have been a fault of the study's Terms of Reference). Recommendations have
not lead to any significant reforms and there is still no banking sector policy in Niger. Consultant study
on incentives to stimulate industrial investment was completed in 1989. Discussions are still continuing
between IDA and GON on finalizing an Investment Code. Studies were financed for the possible
creation of a "societe de caution mutuelle", however no "societe" was created. A Petroleum Sector
study was completed but there has been no implementation of the recommendations.
6.17 Goods and Services for the Creation of Enterprises: According to supervision reports there was
modest success in the creation of new businesses by retired civil servants however no information is
provided about their performance.
6.2   Impact: In the area of industrial development, the small-scale enterprises financed by the
project are doing reasonably well.  They however constituted less than 3 percent of project
disbursements. In terms of institution building, technical assistance and studies financed by the project
have not resulted in improved sectoral policies nor has a single institution supported by the project
outlived the project closing date. On the other hand there may have been some social and economic
destabilization caused by the project. BDRN was a poorly functioning institution even before IDA
involvement and may have failed sooner without IDA intervention. In the case of OPEN and CMAN,
their creation and functioning were influenced by IDA intervention; their failure may have had a
negative impact of the sectors they were supposed to support. Supervision reports do not attempt to
assess this impact.
7.    Project Sustainability
As indicated above, not a single one of the institutions which were to be developed outlived the
project closing date. Studies financed have not been followed by implementation.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01   Preparation was conceptually accurate in its attempt at integrating the objective of industrial
development with institution strengthening. However, deficiencies in project design made subsequent
project supervision by Bank staff extremely difficult. The CFAF 8 billion cost of BDRN's new office
building (being built during project preparation/appraisal) was not included in the appraisal assessment
of the bank's financial condition.
8.02   The shortcomings in project design made it imperative for Bank supervision missions to ensure
that bold, difficult and timely corrective actions were taken by the GON and BDRN management. This
necessitated close and responsive monitoring of project implementation by Bank staff in order to quickly
identify and address key problem areas. Bank supervision was mainly preoccupied with BDRN
rehabilitation (possibly owing to time constraints). The depth of supervision, especially in monitoring
the quality of technical assistance, is difficult to assess from supervision reports. Interviews, and final
results, suggest that supervision staff were unable to get the GON and BDRN support needed to salvage
BDRN and the project. Demands/conditions imposed by the Bank were often too late to be realistically
implemented. For example, the target of CFAF 5 billion per year of bad loan recovery set by IDA in
1984 was never achieved nor modified. The continued deterioration in BDRN's creditworthiness should
have resulted in credit termination much earlier.  In other areas, there was virtually no



- 11 -
supervision/evaluation of the sub-projects supported by the line of credit and the technical assistance
provided to the various organizations.
8.03   In the case of OPEN and CMAN, Bank supervision staff linked credit disbursement more
directly with institutional development and performance. As discussed above (paras. 4.22 and 4.23)
both these institutions were dissolved. IDA assisted in their creation because they were judged to be
important for supporting industrial development. Their closure reflects project design deficiencies in
helping build sustainable institutions, lack of government willingness to disassociate itself from the
management of these institutions and probably the general scarcity of expertise within IDA/GON in
developing entrepreneurship in developing countries.
9.     Fmding-s and Lessons Learned
9.01   Key lessons learnt include the need to integrate the financing of investment projects and
technical assistance for institutional support with the reform or introduction of critical sectoral policies.
The objective of industrial development can only be adequately fulfilled in the presence of an enabling
environment. In the case of BDRN, and the performance of development banks in general, the huge
losses did not originate from term lending activities, but from (usually profitable) short-term lending.
If funds are given to the wrong institution, working under skewed incentives, without proper
accountability mechanisms, the result will be disastrous, even if the activity financed (either trade or
industrial development) is by itself profitable.
9.02   In addition, project design should attempt to identify, and adequately prepare for, the downside
risks to a project. Since all contingencies cannot be predicted during preparation, the responsibility of
supervision staff to identify key problem areas and implement on-going course corrections in a timely
manner becomes essential for achieving project goals.
9.03   Investment and technical assistance projects should incorporate some key measures by which
supervision teams can evaluate project progress and the quality of technical assistance. In the case of
the subject project, about 50 percent of total project costs were disbursed for technical assistance and
consultancy services, yet there was virtually no critical assessment of whether, and to what extent, the
objectives of this assistance were being met. A corollary to this is the need for Task Managers to
devote careful and critical attention to the preparation/approval of Terms of Reference for technical
assistance and consultant services.
10.   Borrower Performance
10.01 The Borrower and IDA generally seemed to be in agreement on critical issues, such as the need
for BDRN restructuring, private sector development, sectoral adjustment of the banking sector and an
improvement in investment incentives. However the extent to which actions agreed upon were
implemented and their timeliness left much to be desired. The Government's and BDRN's inability to
institute sufficient measures to improve loan recovery and reduce operating costs through employment
cut-backs resulted in the continued deterioration in BDRN's already critical financial condition. There
were delays in the commencement of the incentive study to stimulate investment which was to have been
completed by 1984 but finally began in November 1988. After some reluctance, a banking sector study
was initiated in 1989. To date, banking sector policy and an investment code have not been issued.
10.02 The Borrower and other beneficiaries exhibited difficulty in complying with Agreement
covenants. There were delays in obtaining audited, and unaudited, reports from CMAN, OPEN and



- 12 -
BDRN: as BDRN's situation worsened, its reporting became increasingly erratic. Lack of Government
commitment in instituting IDA recommendations aimed at improving the performance of CMAN and
OPEN resulted in their dissolution.
11.   Performance of Consultants
11.01 Supervision reports and interviews do not indicate significant problems with consultant
performance in relation with their terms of reference. Consultants performed well in diagnosing
weaknesses in BDRN's financial structure and recommending a rehabilitation plan. A consultant study
undertaken on artisan clusters around Niamey in 1984 recommended the relocation of one such cluster
from the downtown to outside Niamey. The Bank rejected this proposal indicating that financial costs
were too high and that the action would disrupt a functioning, independent and profitable occupation.
The consultant study on measures to stimulate investment was criticized by local organizations for being
too general. The consultant held a follow-up seminar in order to elaborate on recommendations.
11.02 Interviews with Bank Resident Mission staff, and general project outcome, point to severe
weaknesses in the quality of technical assistance provided to the various institutions. Ultimately, about
SDR 6 million, or about 50% of total project disbursement, was spent on technical assistance and
consulting services, however, there is virtually no evaluation of this component in Bank supervision
reports.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.01 Legal documents were adequate and appropriate for achieving project objectives in the key
organizational and financial areas. The Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for the review
of project implementation. As the project took seven years to implement, was closed over a year ago
with no completion mission taking place, and all the institutions supported by the project have been
dissolved, a project assessment by the Borrower will be difficult to obtain.



- 13 -
ANNEX I
STATUS OF LINE OF CREDIT
(As of July 1990 in '000 SDR equivalent)
Actual
Amount
CAT              Subproject             Disb.         Type of Activity and Status
1-A    Other' Investment Proiects
A SUBPROJECTS
(SDR 5,495 alloc. on 12/87)
A-1   Soc. Nig. des Ind. Alimentaires  975.9    Food processing - Closed
A-2   Gr. Marche Fire Victims          1,574.4  Inventory replacement of shopkeepers
Emergency Financing
A-3   Moulins du Sahel                 367.4    Flour/wheat processing - In default
with IFC and BDRN
A-4   SONICO                           326.8    Confectioner - Closed
A-5   SOTRAMIL                          83.6    Millet processing - Closed
A-6   ENITRAP                          197.6    Stationer - in arrears due to non-
payment of dues by GON.
A-7   Off. Nat. des Prod. Pharm.       160.4    Medicines - Well managed.
TOTAL   3,686.1
1-B       Small-Scale Enteririses
B SUBPROJECTS
(SDR 1,550 alloc. on 12/87)
B-1   TOUTELEC                          33.7    Electronics - well managed.
B-3   Elhadj Hamidou Dourfaye           42.3    Contractor - failed
B-5   Boulangerie de Doutchi            66.8    No info.
B-6   Hama Amadou                       9.6     Fishing-well managed (ex-civil servant)
B-7   Trefiliere de Dosso               16.6    No info.
B-9   Mme. Rico Angela                  24.2    Poultry - good business
B-10  IAON                              31.0    Printing - good business
B-1I   Boulangerie a Kollo              51.2    No info.
B-12   Soc. Nig. de Prod. Frais et      37.5    Fish & fruit imports - well managed
Congoles                                  (ex-civil servant)
B-13   Cab. prive de Kinestherapie       8.2     Orthopedics - well managed
ALZOUMA
B-14   Boubacar Bello (garage)           5.9     No info.
327.0



- 14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No Part II has been provided by the Borrower (see Preface).
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.     Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit                               Year of
Title                Purpose          Approval     Status         Comments
Credit 809-NIR      Employment creation and    1978    Completed   Project objectives
Industrial and      institutional strengthening        in 1983      only partially
Artisan Sector      through the provision of                        achieved. Project
Employment          technical and financial                         under review was a
Creation Project    assistance                                      follow-up to this
project.
Credit 1660-NIR     Adjustment to correct      1986                 Reform of
First Structural    inefficiencies in public                        parastatals and the
Adjustment Credit   resource management and                         financial sector had
parastatals, and private                        an important bearing
sector promotion.                               on the project under
review.
2.     Project Timetable
Item              Date Planned          Date Revised           Date Actual
Identification
Preparation                                                              11/80
Appraisal                                                                 2/82
Negotiations
Board Approval                                                            3/82
Credit Signature                                                          4/82
Credit Effectiveness         7/82                                        12/82
Credit Closing               12/87              12/88-89-90              12/90
Credit Completion                                                         4/91



- 15 -
3.     Credit Disbursements (US$ '000)
Bank Fiscal Year     Estimated        Actual         Actual as %
and Quarter        Cumulative     Cumulative       of Estimated
1983        1             100
2            500           1,260             252
3           1,100          1,510             137
4           2,100          2,020             96
1984        1           2,900          2,790              96
2           4,100          2,980             73
3           5,100          3,340             65
4           6,400          3,580             56
1985        1           7,300          4,000              55
2           8,500          4,240             S0
3           9,700          4,670             48
4          10,500          5,400             51
1986        1          11,500          5,510              48
2          12,500          5,750             46
3          13,500          6,110             45
4          14,500          6,290             43
1987        1          15,100          6.450              43
2          15,700          6,700             43
3          15,900          7,010             44
4          16,000          7,450             47
1988        1             -            7,680              48
2            -             7,780             49
3            -             8,440             53
4            -             9,030             56
1989         1            -             9,170             57
2            -             9,620             60
3            -             9,900             62
4             -            10,910            68
1990         1            -            11,240             70
2            -             11,820            74
3            -            12,300             77
4            -             12,640            79
1991         1            -            13,050             82
2            -            13,370             84
3            -            14,580             91
SDR                 US$
Original Amount            14,000,000           16,000,000
Less Disbursed           12,233,431          14,580,000
Less Canceled            1,766,569          (2,020,000) at appraisal exchange rate



- 16 -
4.     Project Costs and Financing
Expenditures from Credit by Category/Component (in '000 SDR equivalents)
CAT                      Description                 TPlanned    Revised    Actual
1.    Goods and services for Investment Proiects
(Part A of Project)
a.   Small-scale investment enterprises and labor-     2,180      1,550       327
intensive Investment projects
b.   Other Investment Projects                         8,280      5,495      3,686
2.    BDRN: Technical Assistance & Consultant services   700       3,025     3,851
(Part A of Project)
3.    OPEN (PartB of Project)
a.   Studies and Training                                440        680       715
b.   Goods and services for OPEN's operations             90        285       242
c.   Tech. unit to assist civil works contractors       660       1,210      1,210
4.    OPEN: Goods & services for construction of new     470        499        498
facilities
5.    CMAN  (Part C of Project)
a.   Training                                           210          0          0
b.   Common Services                                    580         95         95
c.   Technical Assistance                               260         201       200
l   --    Unallocated                                    130                         l
6.    Studies (Amendment December 1987)                    -        505        423
7.    Goods and services for enterprise creation           -        455        948
(Amendment December 1987)
TOTALS                                           14,000     14,000     12,195
5.     Project Results
A. Direct Benefits: Line of Credit
Category        Number                    inpact: Status and Comments
Financed
Small & labor           11      Generally performing quite well. Only one known failure (See
intensive enterprises           Annex 1)
Other Enterprises        7      Except for 1 or 2, all enterprises have failed.



- 17 -
B. Technical Assistance (TAl and Studies
Category/Description                         Impact/Comments
BDRN: Technical Assistance &        TA not able to sufficiently strengthen BDRN. BDRN
Consultant services (Part A of Project)  liquidated in 1990 and SONIBANK, with reduced
Government participation, created. IDA financed TA
provided by STB to help SONIBANK get off to a
healthy start. SONIBANK is currently well-managed.
OPEN (Part B of Project)            Based on recommendation of IDA funded study, OPEN
liquidated in 1989. Component dropped from project.
Studies and Training
(a) Investment Code commission's    Shifted to broader group of studies under SAL.
work and price control revision
(b) Survey of artisan clusters in   Boukoki study completed in 1985. IDA not in agreement
Niamey, etc.                     with study's rec. to dislodge artisans.
(c) Survey of recorded and unrecorded   IDA concurred with OPEN that subproject identification
imports to identify SME           best made through regional surveys. OPEN failed to
investment opportunities.        follow up on identified projects. TA used by OPEN
mostly to salvage enterprises in which OPEN or GON
were participants.
Tech. unit to assist civil works    No assessment in supervision reports.
contractors
Construction of new facilities      New premises were constructed. Currently used by
political organization.
CMAN  (Part C of Project)           Liquidated in 1985. Support to leather artisans dropped
Studies
1. Study for restructuring OPEN     OPEN liquidated based on study recommesidations.
2. Industrial Incentives study      Study completed in 1989 however recommendations have
yet to be adopted in the form of a new Investment Code.
3. Study for the 'creation de societe  Initial progress (with French assistance) on a pilot
mutuelle"                         scheme started in 1989 however no 'societe" formed.
4. Banking sector study             Completed end 1989. Recommended, inter alia,
improved banking legislation and reduced state equity
participation. Has not resulted, so far, in a new banking
sector policy.
6. Petroleum distribution study     Completed August 1989. No implementation.
Goods & services for enterprise     Operational in 1989. Over 100 voluntarily retired civil
creation                            servants benefitted under this component's support of
GON's 'Programme d'Appui aux Initiatives Privees et a
la Creation d'Emplois (PAIPCE)". No evaluation of this
component by Bank supervision missions.



- 18 -
6.     Status of Covenants
Credit Agreement (Between IDA and Borrower)
Covenant                                              Compliance
(Section)                  Subject                     Deadline             Status
3.01 a     Facilitate BDRN, OPEN and CMAN to              -         Slow implementation
carry out their obligations                              of corrective measures
3.01 b-e    On-lending to BDRN; grants to OPEN/CMAN;       -        Complied with
3.01 e     Accomplishment of purposes of Credit            -        Insufficiently
implemented
3.02       Employment of consultants                       -        IDA concurred with
appointments
3.03 a-b   Import and use of Goods & Services              -         Complied with
3.04 a     OPEN & CMAN progress reports             semi-annual &    Not complied with
quarterly       after initial phases
3.04 b     Maintain records to monitor progress of                  Complied with. Some
Parts B & C. Furnish IDA with timely info.               delays
3.04 d     Assessment of Project execution          6 mths. of      Not complied with
closing date
3.05       OPEN: Furnish proposed budget            Annual-by Sept   Partially complied with
3.06       CMAN: Three year plan and budget         Condition for   CMAN dissolved due
effectiveness   to non-compliance
4.01 b     Provide 3 additional qualified persons to  Dec. 1983     Complied with
OPEN
4.03       Provide externally audited financial accounts   6 mths. of end    Extensive delays in
of OPEN & CMAN to IDA                    of year         compliance (OPEN)
4.05       GON & IDA to review investment promotion  Initial review  Not complied with.
policies; GON to implement improvements    by June 1984  Study completed '89.
4.06       OPEN-Equity Participation and Guarantee  June 1983       Not complied with
Funds: adopt statutes



- 19 -
6.     Status of Covenants (cont'd.)
Project Agreement (Between IDA and Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger)
Covenant                                             Compliance
(Section)                Subject                      Deadline             Status
2.02       Presentation of investment projects to IDA                Complied with
- description, appraisal report, etc.
2.03       BDRN to monitor and ensure satisfactory                   No info. available
operations of investment projects                         from supn. reports
2.06       BDRN to ensure its continued existence        -           BDRN liquidation
and not sell assets                                       agreed to by IDA
3.02       BDRN: Audit of financial accounts and  6 mths. of year end   Delays in compliance
submission to IDA
7.     Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inguts
Stage of Project Cycle   Staff Weeks                     Comments
Through Appraisal         43.1      Some project preparation occurred while supervising
Credit 809-NIR.
Appraisal through         8.2
Board Approval
Board Approval             -
through Effectiveness
Supervision               81.9      Missions devoted time to sectoral reform supervision in
addition to project supervision.
Lending Preparation       14.8
TOTAL                    148.0



- 20 -
B. Supervision Missions
Types of
No. of   Days in                                       Perform.   Problems
Date      Persons    Field              Specialization          Rating 1/      m
5/82         1         7      Operations officer
6/82         1         4      Operations officer
10/82        2         4      Operations officers                   2          M
2/83         1         8      Operations officer                    1
7/83         1         4      Operations officer                    1
12/83 (3/)    1          6      Operations officer                    -
10/84        1         6      Operations officer                     2         F,M
4/85         1        10      Operations officer                    3         F,M
2/86         1         7      Operations officer                    2          M
11/86        1         7      Operations officer                    2          M
4/87 (3/)                -     Operations officer                     2
2/88        2        7 (4/)    Operations officer + Consultant      2         F,M
6/88 (3/)     1       14 (4/)   Operations officer                    -         F,M
11/88        1       12 (4/)   Financial Analyst                    3         F,M
7/89         1         -      Financial Analyst                     3         F,M
11/89 (3/)    1         12      Financial Analyst                     -         F,M
4/90 (3/)     1        6 (4/)   Loan Officer                          -
6/90         1                Financial Analyst                     3         F,M
7/91         1                Task Manager                          3         F,M
1. Problem free or minor problems
2. Moderate problems
3. Major problems
2/     F. Financial (mainly related to BDRN rehabilitation)
M. Managerial (minly related to OPEN and CMAN. Also BDRN after 1988)
3/     No form 590
4/     Mission devoted some time to supervision of another project.



