Document of                    I L E C 0   Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3658-NIR.
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NIGER
February 26, 1982
Western Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1 = CFAF 270
The CFA (Communaute Financiere d'Afrique) Franc is fixed with
respect to the French Franc (1FF = CFAF 50) and floats with respect to
the US dollar. In this report the following conversion has been used:
US$1 = CFAF 270
CFAF 1 million = US$3,704
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB           African Development Bank
BCEAO          Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BDRN           Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
BIAO           Banque Internationale de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BFCE           Banque Francaise du Commerce Exterieur
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CND            Conseil National de Developpement
COFIFA         Compagnie Financiere France Afrique
CPCT            Caisse de Prets aux Collectivites Territoriales
CEAO           Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
DEG            Deutsche Entwicklungs Gesellschaft
ECOWAS         Economic Community of West African States
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OPEN           Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Nigerienne
SONICA         Societe Nigerienne de Credit Automobile
SYNAPEMEIN      Syndicat National-des Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises et Industries du Niger
STB            Societe Tunisienne de Banque
UMOA           Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
UNIDO          United Nations International Development Organization
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE SETTING ........      .1.............    I
A* The Support Sectors .... ....                                     2
B.   Government Policies and Instruments              .     .5
C. The Financial Sector .11
II. THE INSTITUTIONS .14
A.   Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger ...   14
B.   Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Nigerienne ......   20
C.   Centre des Metiers d'Art du Niger               ....   22
III.   THE PROJECT.                    ...... ....        ......... .   24
A. Origin and Objectives ..24
B.   Project Description ........                   .     ...   24
C.   Project Costs and Financing          .      ..                29
D.   Project Implementation    . . ............................   29
E. Benefits and Risks ......                                       32
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS .33
This report is based on the findings of missions to Niger by Patrice J. Dufour,
Manga Kuoh and Cherif Azi in February and July 1981.
Tis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






List of Annexes
Annex 1.  BDRN:  Loan and Equity Portfolio Analysis (September 30, 1980)
Annex 2.  BDRN:  State Credit Portfolio (September 30, 1980)
Annex 3.  BDRN:  Financial Statements 1976-1980
Annex 4.  BDRN:  Financial Forecasts 1981-1986
Annex 5.  OPEN:  Financial Statements (September 30, 1980)
Annex 6.  CMAN:  Financial Highlights (1980-81)
Annex 7.  PROJECT:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Annex 8.  PROJECT:  Selected Documents in Project File



I



NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. The Setting
1.01      Niger"s economy continues to develop along dualistic lines, with
slow but steady progresa in the traditional rural sector and dramatic but
fragile growth in uranium production and earnings. Uranium production,
begun in 1971 in Niger's remote Air region, totaled 3,615 tons in 1979.
It has firmly established itself as the engine of Niger's economy, which has
grown at an average rate of 8.6% per annum in real terms between 1975 and
1980. Uranium revenues have, until recently, provided Niger with considerable
foreign exchange earnings--CFAF 85 billion in 1979--and an important source
of Government revenues, some CFAF 26 billion in 1979 alone.
1.02      Despite this rapid growth, landlocked Niger remains one of the
World's poorest countries, with 90% of its work force employed in agriculture
or herding. After the 1975 Sahel drought, the Government gave top priority
to improving food production (1.6 million tons of millet and Sorgho; 300,000
toas of cowpea in 1979) and upgrading animal herds (13 million heads) which
had been severly hit by the drought. Cash crops have suffered from the
premium on edible grain; peanuts (89,000 T in 1979) do not even satisfy the
local market; cotton production (4,500 tons in 1979) supplies less than one
third of installed ginning capacity. Irrigated agriculture along the Niger
river is being developed but requires substantial investments.
1.03      Two developments may threaten Niger's dualistic economy and jeopar-
dize the Government-s basic stategy of improving the country-s physical and
social infrastructure; the first one is, of course, the uncertainty regard-
ing the marketability of Niger's uranium resources, given the projected
availability of more easily exploitable ore bodies in Australia and Canada
and the slowing down of nuclear power investments in many industrial countries.
Marketing arrangements with France--which has recently agreed to buy Niger's
production at a price higher than the world market--and continued interest by
the Japanese in developing Niger-s deposits should not hide the fact that
Niger's mines might soon be operating at a loss. The Government is therefore
reconsidering its public investment program as foreign debt service obliga-
tions are putting an increasing burden on its resources. The second weakness
is the agriculture's dependence on uncertain rainfall. During the last two
years, Niger has been able to attain self-sufficiency in basic food crops;
this achievement would be questioned if Niger were to face another year of
drought. In any case, neither mining nor agriculture would be in a position
to generate employment and income for Niger-s population of 5.5 million. This
justifies the emphasis of Niger's Development Plan (1979-1983) on the develop-
ment of "secteurs d'accompagnements," that is the sectors which support, and
benefit from, the growth in agriculture and uranium mining. These activities,
which include manufacturing, construction, transport, and services, would be
the beneficiaries of the proposed project.



- 2 -
A. The Support Sectors
1.04      In 1979, support sectors accounted for one-third of Niger's GDP
of CFAF 454 billion. 1/ Among them, modern manufacturing and traditional
crafts represented 1.1 and 5.2% respectively, construction and civil works
5.9%, commerce and hotels 11.1%, transport 3.6% and non-government services
3.8%.
Manufacturing
1.05      The industrial sector in Niger is still embryonic.  In 1979, only
43 modern enterprises were in operations with total sales of CFAF 16.3 billion.
Their structure is given below:
Table 1: STRUCTURE OF THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR (1979)
Number of      Employment
Branch                 Firms        (1977) 2/          Sales          Value Added
Number    %    Number   %    CFA billion %    CFA Billion  %
Food & Drinks          8      18     781    22         4.3   26.6        1.5     29.3
Textiles & Leather    6       13   1,231    35         5.4   33.4        1.4     26.0
Paper/Printing         4      10     247      7        0.7    4.1        0.3      6.4
Chemical Products      6      13                       2.1   12.6        0.7     13.9
311     9
Shoes and Plastic      4      10                       0.6    3.5        0.2      4.1
Construction
Material              8      21     496    14         1.8   11.0        0.5      9.5
Metal & Wood
Products              7      15     458    13         1.4    8.8       0.6      10.8
43    100   3,524   100         16.3  100.0       5.2    100.0
This table clearly indicates the extent to which Nigerien industry is geared
toward import substitution and basic agro-processing. The construction-related
subsector (material + wood and metal work) is also important. Of the 43
existing firms, 23 are fully privately-owned, 13 are mixed enterprises and 7
are state-owned. Many of them are either operating at a loss or facing severe
1/   Source:  Ministry of Plan.
2/   Total industrial employment is now estimated at 5,400.



-3-
difficulties. This malaise can be partly explained by natural conditions
(input shortages, high transport costs, lack of middle management and skilled
labor, limited market, etc.), but it is certainly worsened by competing
unreported imports from Nigeria 1/ and, most important, by stringent price
controls (para. 1.21). Despite its limitations, industry is growing and new
investments have recently been made, including a dry-battery plant, a shoe
factory and several bakeries. Most new projects include Nigerien capital,
thus reflecting the growing interest of Niger's business community for in-
dustry. In the 1979-83 Plan, several large projects (including a sugar
refinery, a cement plant and a flour mill) are listed for a total investment
of CFAF 47 billion. Some of them are being postponed owing to recent resource
constraints.
Artisans
1.06       The artisan subsector represents, according to Plan estimates,
a population of 35,000 of which 10,000 operate in the towns. Their contribu-
tion to GDP has been estimated at CFAF 23.4 billion (5.2%) in 1979. Artistic
artisans (weaving, leather, silver and gold jewelery) work mainly for the
tourism market. The National Museum sponsors about 150 artistic artisans and
sells their products in its gift shop (annual sales of CFAF 40 million a
year). Centre des Metiers d'Art du Niger (CMAN), established under IDA's
first Employment Creation Project currently employs 60 leather artisans
in Niamey. It is also developing a workshop in Maradi and an artisan coopera-
tive in Zinder. The proposed project would continue IDA-s assistance to the
leather subsector, a promising traditional activity with export potential.
1.07       Nothing has yet been done to assist production artisans (kitchen
ustensils, tools and agricultural implements, pottery, food). In Niamey,
several hundreds of these live and work as squatters in the "Boukoki" area
where they process salvaged and stolen materials into cheap consumer goods
and implements. Previous attempts to assist this group have revealed the
sensitive nature of the problem and an initial survey would be carried out
under the proposed project to determine how best to assist this group (para.
3.06(b)).
Construction
1.08      A survey of the construction industry recently carried out for
IDA has highlighted the importance of the construction sector in the Nigerien
economy: sales have increased 21% each year over the last three years, from
CFAF 34 billion in 1977 to CFAF 73 billion in 1980; between 1977 and 1983,
its share of GDP is expected to increase from 4.4% to 8.9%. In terms of
production, value added and employment, the construction sector therefore
appears three times as large as the modern manufacturing sector. Although the
market share of Nigerien entreprises has tripled between 1978 and 1980, it
1/   There is a difference of 20 to 30% between the official and parallel
CFAF/Naira exchange rates.



re2 '5£Sless t1han 30% and, among them, two firms with sales above CFAF 1
bi m ~accou-nt for the bulk of the Nigerien share, leaving only 6% of the
total market (roughly CFAF 3 billion) to 30 indigenous firms with individual
3ales below CFAF 1 billion (para. 1.17). 1/
1.09      The development potential of the indigenous construction industry
warrants assistance to the sector: (a) its improved efficiency would dramati-
cally lower the cost of indispensable infrastructures; (b) its improved
competitiveness would reduce the dependence on foreign firms; (c) employment
could be generated at a cost substantially lower than that of manufacturing
(US$4,000 for modern sector construction and US$1,000 for intermediate sector
construction); and (d) Nigerien entrepreneurship could be developed more
readily than in industry. The bottlenecks to the development of the indigenous
construction industry include: (i) the inadequacy of bidding procedures which
too often rely on negotiated contracts (marches de gre a gre) and are of a size
inaccessible to smaller firms; (ii) the acute shortage of technical and
managerial personnel and of skilled labor; (iii) the lack of machinery and
equipment; and (iv) the inadequate financial structure and reporting systems
of most firms. The indigenous construction component of the proposed project
will attempt to alleviate some of these constraints through the revision of
bidding procedures and the provision of technical assistance and training to
indigenous construction firms within Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise
Nigerienne (para. 3.07).
Services
1.10      In 1979, the services sector, which includes transport, commerce,
hotels and non-government services, accounted for 18.5% of GDP. Their
development has been rapid, owing to the needs of the growing uranium industry
in northern Niger, the communication requirements related to Niger-s land-
locked position and the buoyant border trade with northern Nigeria.
1.11      Transport.  Most of transport in Niger is done by road, and there
are more than 12,000 utility vehicles in service. Many of these belong to
organized transportation companies, the most important of which being Societe
Nationale des Transports Nigeriens (SNTN), a joint venture between the Govern-
ment and a private foreign investor. With a staff of 1,400 and more than
800 vehicles, this well-managed company plays an important role in Niger's
transport industry. There are, nonetheless, about 1,000 "taxi-brousse" and
400 independent truck operators. This truck fleet requires servicing, and
repair facilities are developing rapidly.
1.12      Trade.  Apart from a small number of foreign trading companies  and
two Nigerien mixed enterprises--Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN),
which collects and markets cereals, and Societe Nationale de Commerce et de
Production du Niger (COPRO-NIGER), which has a monopoly on the essential
1/   One of these two firms, Societe Nationale des Grands Trevaux du Niger
(SNGTN) was liquidated in June 1981.



- 5 -
imports--most domestic trade is handled by indigenous traders. Some of
them have acquired substantial capital which they are increasingly investing
in construction and manufacturing ventures. A large part of their wealth
originates in the extensive border trade with Nigeria, which has an ambivalent
impact on the productive sectors of Niger. On one hand, shortages and bottle-
necks in the markets of northern Nigeria have provided an outlet for some
Nigerien commodities, mostly food and meat products as well as construction
materials. These shortages, however, result in speculative commercial opera-
tions but would not be sufficient to maintain a reliable market for the
steady output of industrial firms. On the other hand, there is an important
inflow of manufactured goods into Niger which compete with locally produced
merchandise and can be readily found in most market places. A 1978 survey
of transport flows, although incomplete, confirms these findings.  But it is
not precise enough to help select which products could be locally manufactured
without undue competition from unreported imports, which are twice as important
as official trade. Only goods which are competitive locally and possibly on
the Nigerian market have a chance to be manufactured profitably in Niger. To
determine the list of products eligible for local manufacturing, a trade
survey, based on market place samplings, businessmen interviews and border
counts, would be carried out under the auspices of Office de Promotion de
l'Entreprise Nigerienne (OPEN) in the proposed project (para. 3.06(b)).
B. Government Policies and Instruments
Development Policies
1.13      Niger-s Five Year Development Plan 1979-83 emphasize that country
desire to reach self-sufficiency in food and to develop a base toward economic
independence. The strategy followed by Niger to achieve these goals relies on
the Government's leadership in key sectors like mining, energy, training,
health and communications. The State does not, however, plan to substitute
for private sector action. Rather, it would like to coordinate and harmonize
the contribution of all economic, social and cultural operators to achieve its
objectives.
1.14      Mining and agriculture are the key instruments in this strategy;
the first one because it generates the resources needed for development;
the second because it is the key to self-sufficiency in food, an objective
constantly emphasized since the Sahel drought of 1975, The Government is
nevertheless anxious to develop the support sectors, as its long-term goal is
to gradually create a sound and diversified industrial base which would
maintain economic growth when uranium deposits have been fully exploited.
This policy is characterized by the following objectives:



- 6 -
(1)  to strengthen existing enterprises, by removing internal and
external bottlenecks to their operations, by facilitating
their rehabilitation and by giving priority to extension and
modernization projects of existing firms;
(2)  to increase the contribution of Nigerien nationals in the
development of industries and to assist small and artisan
enterprises through the provision of training and credit;
(3)  to give priority to industries which process agricultural/live-
stock and mining products and to create an industrial base
ensuring the country's economic independence in years to
come;
(4) to pursue the promotion of import-substitution and export-
oriented industries to improve the balance of trade and
develop commerce with neighboring countries.
Policy Instruments
1.15      These objectives are ambitious, given the constraints faced by the
Nigerien economy: high transport costs, insufficient infrastructure, high
energy and construction costs, shortage of management talent and scarcity
of skilled labor. To compensate for these constraints, it is therefore
essential for the Government to use constructively all the policy instru-
ments at its disposal. Among those, several influence the growth potential of
the support sectors. First, the government has a substantial purchasing power
through its operating and investment expenditures. Second, it has set up an
incentive system, the purpose of which is to promote industrial investments.
Thirdly, the Government has also intervened in the industrial sector through
a number of state or mixed enterprises, thus substituting itself for insuf-
ficient private entrepreneurship. Fourthly, all investment projects are
reviewed and approved by the Government's Conseil National de Developpement
to ensure their compatibility with national development policies. Finally,
through its Ministries of Education and Civil Service, the Government keeps
very tight reins on the educational system, designing curriculum, selecting
students and allocating graduates according to its development priorities.
Unfortunately, the design and implementation of these various policy instru-
ments are deficient and have sometimes resulted in perverse effects which
undermine the goals they were supposed to pursue.
Public Expenditures
1.16      In 1979, the Government had CFAF 111 billion available for public
expenditures, the equivalent of one fourth of Niger's GDP for the same
year. Half of the Government-s resources (CFAF 55.6 billion) were used for
investment expenditures, of which 76% were spent directly by the State.



Table 2: PUBLIC INVESTMENTS BY BENEFICIARY SECTORS
Investment           of which Financed
Beneficiary Sector                  CFAF billion    %      on External Resources
Productive Sectors                       21.5      38.7              17.0
of which
- rural development                 (6.9)   (12.4)              (5.8)
- energy                            (8.4)   (15.1)              (7.6)
Social Infrastructure                    13.0      23.4               5.7
of which
- education                         (6.7)   (12.1)              (2.7)
Economic Infrastructure                  12.5      22.4               8.6
Administrative Infrastructure             8.6      15.5               3.2
Total Investments                   55.6    100.0               34.5
Source:   Ministry of Plan, Indicative Program for the Development of
Niger, March 1981.
The above table reflects Government's priorities. Most expenditures are
nevertheless "translated" in civil works and construction activities: rural
development projects need irrigation infrastructure; mining implies road,
workers housing, earth moving equipment and plant construction; education
programs require facilities; economic infrastructure is synonimous with
utilities, power, roads and transport; finally, administrative infrastructure
suggests construction of office buildings, whether ministries in Niamey or
regional offices in other towns. Thus, public investment is, for a large
part, the engine behind the construction boom of the last three years.
1.17      Better use could be made of this demand to maximize the development
potential of the construction sector (para. 114).  On one hand, a number of
indigenous enterprises have recently emerged, which now account for roughly
30% of the construction sector turnover--against 10% four years ago. The
construction sector has thus played a key role in the development of Nigerien
entrepreneurship. On the other hand, existing regulations and practices are
often an obstacle to local firms and discourage smaller contractors from
access to public jobs. First, bidding prequalifications exclude the large
majority of small enterprises from Government bids. Their only recourse is to
subcontract these jobs at a substantial discount (50 to 70%) from their few
colleagues whose enterprises qualify under Government regulations. Second,
Government services usually prepare large bids which are not subdivided in
lots small enough for SMEs. Third, the bidding documents are usually not



- 8 -
precise enough for enterprises without their own quantity surveyors to respond
correctly. Either their offer is underestimated and they are unable to com-
plete the work, or it is overestimated and they are underbid by better staffed,
larger companies. Fourth, there has been a tendency to by-pass bidding and
use "marches de gre a gre" (negotiated contracts) in favor of a few estab-
lished local and foreign firms. (Whereas in 1977, 60% of all Government
orders were awarded through bidding, 20% through limited consultation, and
only 20% privately, the figures for 1980 show that more than 90% were awarded
privately. This trend might prevent promising indigenous firms from obtaining
Government contracts. Similar bottlenecks exist for payments of Government
contracts, especially those financed under Fonds National d'Investissement
which require up to one year for actual payment. Finally, shortages of
skilled labor and qualified middle managers are crucial to most entreprises:
they cannot afford expatriate labor while all trained Nigeriens have an
obligation to serve the Government for ten years. It is therefore not
surprising to see many Government technicians work overtime for private
clients.
1.18      To address this situation, the Government has recently established,
under the Presidency, an interministerial group to review existing bidding
and contracting procedures as well as payment mechanisms. Its findings and
recommendations would be communicated to IDA for review and comments. In
addition, the proposed project would support the establishment within OPEN,
of a Technical Assistance Unit for indigenous contractors (para. 3.07).
Incentive System
1.19      Investment Code.  The second instrument available to the Government
for supporting the diversification of Niger-s economic base is the 1974
Investment Code. Under the Code, three regimes are granted: the common
law regime, with very limited incentives, the convention regime, which applies
to investments of CFAF 500 million and more, and the agreement regime for
smaller enterprises serving the country's development objectives. Special
provisions apply to private Nigerien enterprises (defined as enterprises with
at least 80% Nigerien equity ownership).  For them, benefits last longer and
the minimum investment is reduced to CFAF 10 million. Authorized concessions
include tax holidays, duty-free import of equipments and raw materials and
trade protection (import ban or quotas).  Export tax exemptions are sometimes
granted, but the statistical tax--2.5% of all imports and exports--is never
waived. The Investment Code shows the following weaknesses: (i) it does not
provide for a gradual transition out of the Code: when benefits expire, the
enterprise must suddenly pay all taxes and face open competition; (ii) benefits
granted do not respond to a well-defined industrial development strategy and
subsector priorities; (iii) there are no standard guidelines and methodology
to determine which benefits a project deserves.
1.20      Review and Approval.  All investment projects requesting Investment
Code benefits must await Government review and approval by the Conseil National
de Developpement (CND), a process often involving delays of 8 to 24 months.
CND, the main governmental body responsible for carrying-out development
policies, is composed of the Ministers responsible for the productive sectors
(Mines and Industry, Commerce, Public Works, Rural Development) and chaired by
the Minister of Plan. Before their submission to CND, projects are reviewed



- 9 -
by the Ministry concerned--Mines and Industry for industrial investments. To
qualify for CND approval, enterprises must: (i) give priority to the use of
local materials, (ii) train Nigerien managers and supervisors, (iii) open
their capital to local investors and (iv) obtain Government approval of prices
prior to sales.
1.21      Price Control.  Anxious to maintain reasonable consumer prices, the
Government relies on a system of price controls ("homologation des prix")
on both ex factory prices and trade margins. As a result of a slow price
adjustment and registration process, entrepeneurs were not able to reflect
cost increases in a timely fashion and many manufacturing enterprises ended up
running at a loss. In addition, authorized prices were based on a cost plus
formula providing little incentive to improve plant efficiency and responding
poorly to changes in fixed production costs and overheads. The limitation of
trade margins (which aimed at consumer protection) also had negative side
effects as traders became reluctant to carry locally manufactured goods. In a
recent effort to improve the condition of industry and introduce a realistic
price policy, the Government has made an effort to expedite dossiers and
respond quickly to price adjustment requests. Owing to these improvements,
the price control system does no longer affect the viability of Niger's few
manufacturing enterprises. Under the proposed project, IDA would nevertheless
continue its policy dialogue with the Government to further streamline and
standardize price regulation procedures (para 1.22 and 3.06).
1.22      Necessary Refprms.  Despite recent efforts to expedite dossiers,
the present incentive system may discourage dynamic management, ignore small
and artisan enterprises and paralyze export-oriented manufacturing. It is
therefore essential to revive the dormant Government Commission responsible
for reviewing the structure of incentives.  In its dialogue with the Ministry
of Mines and Industry, IDA will emphasize the following points:
(a) in the long term, price controls might reduce the positive
impact of Investment Code benefits and adversely affect existing
enterprises. If, as officially stated, one of Government's
objectives is to strengthen existing enterprises (para 1.14),
price control mechanisms should be made more responsive to cost
changes. A standard methodology should also be adopted to avoid
differential treatment of various industries. Ultimately, the
possibility of relying on competition rather than controls to
maintain adequate prices should be explored.
(b) the Investment Code itself does not need to be changed, provided
that:  (i) administrative procedures be simplified, processing
delays be reduced and controls be less stringent; (ii) import-
duty exemptions be granted to artisan and individual enterprises,
without a minimum investment being required, as this is the only
incentive to which they can respond; (iii) extension and
modernization investments, undertaken during the period of
benefits eligibility, be exempted of import duties; (iv) the
lack of transitory period be compensated by gradually phasing
out various tax holidays and other benefits;



- 10 -
(c) export taxation should be abolished except for merchandise with
limited value-added and world prices favorable enough to support it
(minerals, leathers, etc.).
During negotiations, IDA obtained the assurance from the Government that it
would revive the Investment Code commission. It would also offer short term
advisory services to the Ministry of Mines and Industry (through OPEN for
administrative convenience) to help revise price control and Investment Code
procedures. Proposed changes in procedures would be discussed with IDA in
the course of Project Supervision and a timetable for their implementation
would then be agreed, such implementation to take place before June 1984
(para 3.06).
Public and Mixed Enterprises
1.23      The third instrument used by the Government to intervene in the
economy has been the establishment of public and mixed enterprises which
control a large segment of the Nigerien economy. The general principles of
Government intervention in the mixed enterprises sector have been laid out
in 1966: under this legislation, the Government may decide to create mixed
enterprises in two cases: (i) when a given sector is important enough for
the country to warrant state control; and (ii) when, in a priority sector,
private entrepreneurs are reluctant or unable to intervene either because
short-term prospects are not sufficiently attractive or because they fear
competition. In such cases, the Government may choose to establish a mixed
enterprise, either to compensate for the absence of private businesses, or to
keep the prices of basic commodities under control. The Government has made
extensive use of mixed and public enterprises; outside the mining and banking
sectors 1/ there are currently 30 mixed and public entities. Ten operate in
the commercial sector, eight are services companies, eleven are industrial
firms and one is a construction company. Their total turnover has increased
from CFAF 36 billion in FY 1978 to CFAF 50 billion in 1979-80. A list of
Nigerien mixed and public enterprises is available in the project file.
1.24      Difficulties.  Several mixed enterprises are plagued with operating
difficulties. The most obvious of these is financial: despite CFAF 9 billion
of Government subsidies over the three years FY77-80, the mixed enterprises
sector as a whole shows a working capital need of roughly CFAF 8 billion.
Initial undercapitalization may explain part of the problem, but management
and organizational problems are also severe: the lack of qualified managers
and technicians force the directors to overlook detailed operations. Manage-
ment and accounting systems are still insufficient. The respective role of
Management, Board, and Tutelle Ministries is not clearly specified. Further-
more, the objectives of mixed enterprises are not clearly spelled out, result-
ing in conflicting results. Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN), for
example, has partially achieved its objective of distributing basic food
stuffs; however, it has done so at a loss each year, despite heavy Government
1/   Most mines are exploited as joint ventures between the Government and
foreign partners; the Banking sector will be described in para. 1.33.



- 11 -
subsidies. Finally, environmental constraints weight heavily on mixed enter-
prises, which are also subject to rigid price controls, raw material shortages
and competition from unreported imports.
1.25      Government's efforts to improve management of mixed and public
entreprises are currently assisted by an UNDP/ILO project which will enter a
third phase in early 1982. Whereas the first two phases have focused on
training managers, this third phase will continue efforts (i) to organize
supervisory functions within Tutelle Ministries (Commerce and Mines/Industry),
(ii) to provide direct managerial assistance to mixed entreprises, and (iii)
to rationalize the legal framework under which mixed entreprises operate.
In addition to this assistance, some mixed enterprises eligible for rehabi-
litation could receive loans or equity investments by BDRN under the proposed
line of credit (para. 3.03), while a public sector strategy study would be
carried out under a proposed Technical Assistance Project being prepared by
IDA.
1.26      The fourth instrument that the Government may use to foster the
development of productive sectors is its complete control over the educational
and vocational training system in Niger. Several institutions provide
training of interest to the Support Sectors described in Section A: Ecole
Nationale d'Administration (ENA) is expected to train professionals for
Government, and parastatal and private enterprises. It organizes business
and accounting courses which are open to non-Government entities, provided
they pay for tuition and scholarships. Centre de Formation et de Perfec-
tionnement Professionnel provides 3-year vocational training (in mechanics,
electricity, car repair, metal works, etc...) to sixty graduates.  It also has
short-term sessions (9 months) for masons, metal workers and wood workers.
Centre de Formation des Agents Techniques des Travaux Publics trains 15
students per year in equipment maintenance (mechanical and electrical). Lycee
Technique de Maradi and College d'Enseignement Technique (Issa Beri) offer
vocational and clerical (typing, accounting, mecanography) training.  Finally,
a recently established boarding school (Centre Kahlamaro) trains specialized
workers for construction- and industry-related jobs.
1.27      OPEN has been invited to collaborate closely with these vocational
training institutions to help solve the skilled labor bottleneck faced by its
clients. After it has identified their training needs, OPEN would sponsor
curriculum development with these institutions and finance tuition and scholar-
ship of attendees from its clients. Funds have been earmarked in the proposed
project for that purpose (para. 3.06(c)).
C. The Financial Sector
Monetary Union
1.28      As a member of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA), Niger shares
a common currency (CFA franc) and Central Bank--Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de lOuest--with five other Western African countries. 1/ Although
1/   Benin, Ivory Coast, Senegal, Togo and Upper Volta.



- 12 -
each country has its own national credit committee which forms the link
between BCEAO's National Branch and national political authorities, the over-
all credit and monetary policies are designed by BCEAO's Board of Directors.
Since the reform of 1975, BCEAO has aimed at (i) reducing the banks' over-
whelming dependence on the Central Bank for liquidity; (ii) tightening control
over their lending activities; (iii) directing funds towards productive
sectors.
Policy Instrument
1.29      To carry out its policy, BCEAO uses the following instruments.
First, each country is given an annual indicative target for credit expansion
and an absolute ceiling for Central Bank refinancing. Within those limits,
banks are expected to mop-up liquidities on the union-wide interbank call
money market before gaining access to Central Bank rediscounts of up to ten
years - which are no longer automatically granted. To control credit expan-
sion, all bank loan applications above CFAF 30 million require Central Bank
prior approval, whether the credit will be later rediscounted or not. Finally,
BCEAO has decided to apply a sectoral policy in favor of "priority" productive
sectors, which has yet to be implemented in the case of Niger.
Credit Distribution
1.30      As of September 1979, registered loans (excluding foreign borrowings)
represented 95% of total credit outstanding in the economy (CFAF 59.6 billion)
as follows:
Table 3: CREDIT STRUCTURE (September 1979)
Loans            Short Term       Medium Term      Long Term         Total
CFAF Bil. %      CFAF Bil.  %    CFAF Bil. %   CFAF Bil. %
Agriculture        2.2    5.5        1.0    6.3         -            3.2    5.7
Mining             3.0    7.5        7.6   48.1         -           10.6   18.8
Industry           5.6   14.0        1.2    7.6        -             6.8   12.0
Construction       4.6   11.5        2.2   13.9      0.1   12.5    6.9   12.2
Transport          2.7    6.8        1.2    7.6      0.5   62.5    4.4    7.8
Commerce          18.1   45.4        0.9    5.7         -          19.0   33.6
Services           0.9    2.3        0.3    1.9        -            1.2    2.1
Others             2.8    7.0        1.4    8.9      0.2   25.0    4.4    7.8
Total        39.9  100.0        15.8  100.0      0.8  100.0   56.5  100.0



- 13 -
Commerce and services accounted for 48% of short-term credit; mining repre-
sented 48% of term credit, while industry was using 14% of short-term credit
but received only 8% of all medium-term loans. At the same time, Central
Bank refinancing amounted only to 21% of total loans, thus confirming that
most bank loans are financed by local deposits, mostly public.
Interest Rates
1.31      Interest rates in the Union are controlled by BCEAO.  A preferential
interest rate applies on loans to Government, small-scale enterprises, 1/
short-term crop financing, and private housing. All other loans are charged a
"normal" rate,  On April 14, 1980, the interest rate structure was adjusted
upwards by 2.5 points to reflect international market conditions, and the
following rates are now in effect:
Table 4: INTEREST RATES
Discount         Allowable      Allowable
Type of Borrower            Rate             Spread        Final Rate
-------------------- % -------------------
Preferential
Agriculture              8.0           1.0 to 2.0      9.0 to 10.0
SSE                      8.O           1.0 to 3.0      9.0 to 11.0
Housing                  8.0           1.0 to 3.0      9.0 to 11.0
Normal                     10.5           0.0 to 5.0    10.5 to 15.5
Final rates of interest apply whether the credit has been rediscounted at
the BCEAO or is financed from other sources. While preferential rates may
stimulate SSE demand for funds, as intended, they at the same time restrain
the supply of funds available for this purpose by discouraging financial
intermediaries: a spread of one to three points is not adequate to motivate
the banks which face increased risks and administrative costs when lending to
SSE. This problem will be brought up again in region-wide discussions with
BCEAO.
1.32      Inflation.  The actual rate of inflation in Niger is difficult to
seize, given Government's efforts to maintain prices of necessities at a low
level. On average, consumer prices have gone up 13.1% p.a. over the period
1975-79. Production costs (energy, construction, salaries and materials)
have, however, increased much faster, and the actual trend for these items has
probably been about 15Z p.a. over the period. Inflation, as measured by the
1/   Small-scale enterprises are defined by BCEAO to be locally-owned
enterprises with credit outstanding of CFAF 30 million or less.



- 14 -
implicit GDP deflator has been about 12% over the past three years. Future
price trends are dependent on agricultural output, but they are expected to
remain at that level over the next three years as the uranium-generated boom
slows down. Existing interest rates are therefore likely to stay marginally
positive.
The Banking System
1.33      Eight institutions comprise the Nigerien banking system.  The Caisse
de Prets aux Collectivites Territoriales (CPCT) finances regional infrastruc-
ture projects.  Societe Nigerienne de Credit Automobile (SONICA) offers car
loans. Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) serves the agricultural
sector exclusively. Credit du Niger provides housing and consumer loans.
Niger has four commercial banks: the Banque Internationale pour le Niger
(BIPN) is the oldest commercial bank operating in Niger. Banque Arabe Libyenne
Nigerienne pour le Commerce Exterieur et le Developpement (BALINEX) plays a
marginal role. Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie du Niger
(BICINI) recently opened, while CITIBANK maintains an office exclusively for
international banking. Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
(BDRN) is a multipurpose bank which provides both commercial services and
development loans. As of 1980, BDRN provided 56% of all credits in the
economy and 65% of term loans and equity participations. BDRN is therefore
the key financial intermediary for the development of Niger's economy.
II. Institutions
2.01      In carrying out its policies towards the construction, industry and
services sectors, the Government relies on several key institutions, the most
significant of which are Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
(BDRN), Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Nigerienne (OPEN) and Centre des
Metiers d'Art du Niger (CMAN). These institutions would be primary inter-
mediaries for this project. They are described below.
A. Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
BDRN - The Institution
2.02      BDRN was created in 1961 by the Government of Niger with the
assistance of Societe Tunisienne de Banque (STB), which is still providing
seconded staff. BDRN has, since inception, been both a commercial and a
development bank. Ten branch offices are presently in operation and three
additional branches will be opened through 1984. No other financial institu-
tion in Niger has such a widespread regional coverage.
2.03      Ownership.  BDRN's initial share capital of CFAF 450 million has
recently been increased to CFAF 2.5 billion. The distribution of shares,
as described in Table 5 below, has changed little since 1962. Government
and parastatal entities control the majority of BDRN's shares.



- 15 -
Table 5: BDRN OWNERSHIP
Shareholders                  Amount                %
(CFAF million)
Government                     925.8              37.03
Nigerien Public &
Parastatal Organizations       549.2              21.97
Subtotal               1,475.0              59.00
Nigerien Private Investors   104.3                 4.17
BCEAO                         307.5               12.30
Foreign Shareholders 1/       613.2               24.53
Total         2,500.0              100.00
1/   CCCE (8.2% of capital), DEG (5.7%), STB (5.3%),
Credit Lyonnais (2.6%), BFCE (1%), COFIFA (0.5%),
Foreign private shareholders (1.2%).
2.04      Board of Directors.  BDRN's Board of Directors consists of twelve
members.  The Minister of Finance is the Chairman of the Board.  Five other
seats are reserved for Government representatives and BCEAO, one is reserved
for Nigerien private shareholders and the remainder allocated to foreign
interests. Since July 1976, the Board has delegated all powers to authorize
credits to a Credit Committee composed of the Board Chairman, two government
representatives, the National Manager of BCEAO and BDRN-s General Manager.
The General Manager has the authority to approve short-term credits below
CFAF 100 million and medium-term credits below CFAF 15 million. The Credit
Committee must approve all loans above these ceilings and all loans with
maturities beyond 10 years.
2.05      Organization and Management.  The present manager, a former official
in the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the President, was appointed
in early 1976. Although lacking prior banking experience, he has shown
an impressive grasp of BDRN's problems and is acting effectively to resolve
them. In July 1976, the organization was restructured into six new Depart-
ments: Commitments (responsible for overall exposure control); Development;
Administration and Personnel; International Relations; Finance and Accounting;
and Operations. Many improvements have been made over the last three years
and BDRN's organization has been recently strengthened. A new Department,
"Organisation et Methodes" has been established and a two-year plan adopted in
1980 to review and improve the organization chart, job descriptions, banking
procedures and delegation of authority.



- 16 -
2.06      Staffing and Training.  Out of a total staff of 555, only 75 may
be considered professionals (of which 25 are managers). BDRN therefore
still uses 5 expatriates in the areas of accounting, inspection, data pro-
cessing and project evaluation. Two of these were financed under the first
IDA credit and their term will be extended. In addition, BDRN is recruiting
an expatriate engineer to be financed under a 2nd AfDB line of credit. BDRN
is also trying to improve its own staff through in-house and foreign training
programs. Staff training is however still arranged in a case-by-case basis
with a special emphasis on programs designed for professional staff. Thus,
BDRN has successfully upgraded the appraisal and credit management capabili-
ties of its senior officers. Meanwhile, the progress made at lower levels
(clerks, accountants and tellers) has been insufficient. A comprehensive
training program designed for support staff and middle management has become
an urgent necessity and IDA has recommended the establishment of an in-house
training unit, the establishment of which would be assisted in the proposed
project (para. 3.04).
2.07      Accounting System and Data Processing.  BDRN's accounting system,
although generally adequate, is overburdened as its data processing capability
has not been able to cope with the growth in operation. BDRN's Data Processing
Department is therefore considering a new system which would reduce processing
delays and generate adequate management information. Despite the good caliber
of its computer specialists BDRN needs some assistance to review alternative
proposals prepared by consulting firms. The proposed project would finance
the services of a high-caliber systems engineer to review such proposals
(para. 3.04). BDRN's accounts are audited annually by an independent firm
acceptable to IDA.
2.08      Policies and Guidelines.  BDRN's most recent policy statement
limits equity investments in a company to 25% of the company's share capital
or 15% of BDRN's net worth, whichever is smaller. 1/ BDRN's total equity
portfolio is limited, by statute, to 100% of its available equity after
allowing for fixed assets. These limits are satisfactory. BDRN's financial
exposure in favor of a single firm is limited to 25% of net worth and its
commitment to an individual project to 70% of total project cost, with an
exception allowed for SME. Regarding the exchange risk, BDRN has assumed
this risk on only one occasion, a 1967 KfW loan of DM 2 million. IDA would
nevertheless ask that BDRN protects itself against exchange risk on its future
borrowings. Finally, BDRN's interest rate structure ranges from 9% to 15.5%,
in line with BCEAO regulations (para. 1.31).
BDRN - Its Operations
2.09      Commercial Banking.  Commercial operations still represent 70% of
BDRN's business and its primary source of profits. BDRN executes all commer-
cial transactions, including agricultural trade credits, documentary credits,
1/   These limits do not apply to equity investments for which BDRN has
received special, earmarked resources.



- 17 -
overdrafts, and international transactions. Through its commercial business,
BDRN has developed a large commercial clientele which has proved its most
important asset in building its development financing and promotion activities.
BDRN's commercial operations are expected to continue to support and comple-
ment its development activities.
2.10      Development Department.  The Development Department is responsible
for all medium- and long-term financing activity for public and private
sectors, all economic research, project studies and statistical analysis,
and for the management of BDRN's equity portfolio. To supervise a portfolio
of more than CFAF 12 billion, this Department presently has a staff of
6 professionals, including two IDA-financed foreign advisors. For the last
two years, these advisors have helped improve the department's work and an
ADB financed engineer is expected to be recruited shortly. The Department
has been remarkably active in project promotion; most projects approved in
recent years were promoted and packaged by BDRN for the Government and local
investors. BDRN provided the major share of financing for these projects
through combined credits and equity investments. With the creation of OPEN in
1978, BDRN now has a technical assistance partner to assist the projects it
finances. It can, therefore, more readily focus on the credit aspect of
projects. Finally, the Development Department carries out appraisals for term
credits and equity investments, The quality of these studies is satisfactory
but portfolio supervision should be strengthened to deal with a number of
rehabilitation efforts currently underway with BDRN's active participation.
211       Development Resources.  BDRN's major resources for its development
banking operations are equity, term deposits, a fixed small percentage of
sight deposits and BCGAO rediscounts. In addition, BDRN is increasingly
relying on foreign lines of credits from bilateral (CCCE, KfW, USAID) and
multilateral sources (IDA, AfDB, BOAD).
2.12      Development Fortfolio.  A summary and analysis of BDRN's outstanding
development portfolio -is presented below. BDRN provides term financing for
all economic activities except personal automobile purchases and housing.
Its portfolio, which includes medium-term loans (2 to 10 years), long-term
loans (more than 10 years), and equity investments has almost doubled between
1978 and 1980, rising from CFAF 6.7 billion to CFAF 12.2 billion; development
operations now accounts for 29% of its total loan portfolio (compared to 23%
in 1978).



- 18 -
Table 6: SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF BDRN'S DEVELOPMENT PORTFOLIO
(as of September 30, 1980)
Sector                         Term Loans            Equity Participation
CFAF Million   %          CFAF Million    %
Mines and Energy               4,990       41.2         214          21.0
Construction                   2,036       16.8          30           3.0
Transport                      2,054       17.0          30           3.0
Building Material                209        1.7          87           8.8
Textile and Leather              574        4.7          37           3.7
Metal and Woodwork               165        1.4         150          15.2
Agro Industries                  328        2.7          85           8.6
Tourism                          995        8.2         166          16.5
Other 1/                         764        6.3         188          19.1
Total                   12,115     100.0          987         100.0
1/   Mainly trade and services.
Mining and energy have been the main beneficiaries of BDRN's interventions,
which reflect the importance of these sectors in the economy. Term financing
of construction firms is proportionately less important as these companies
usually rely on short-term advances on contracts. With 17%, transport is
the second largest beneficiary and SNTN, the Government-owned trucking com-
pany, accounts for almost all credits. Industry uses only 10.5% of all term
loans, but BDRN's promotion efforts is nevertheless reflected in the larger
percentage of industry in its equity portfolio (36%).
2.13      State Operations.   In addition to its regular commercial and
development banking operations, BDRN has financed several projects on behalf
of the Nigerien Government. As of September 30, 1980, these commitments
amounted to CFAF 20.2 billion, of which half were disbursed (Annex 2).
BDRN intervenes for the state in three ways. First, it may prefinance a
Government project to be funded in the next budget. In this case, the advance
is repaid as soon as the next budget is effective. Second, BDRN may grant
medium-term loans to the Government to finance development projects. For such
loans, debt service obligations are paid annually from budgetary allocations.
Finally, BDRN may borrow on the international market on behalf, and with the



- 19 -
guarantee of, the Niger Republic.  Since 1977, the volume of outstanding state
operations has increased by 60%.  BDRN's board of directors has therefore
invited management to discuss ways to limit this growth with the Government.
BDRN's relationship with the Government is highly profitable: in addition
to the spread earned on outstanding loans, undisbursed balances and state
deposits (CFAF 24.6 billion) improve BDRN's liquidity and Government suppliers
are often required to bank with BDRN.  Although the ultimate risk on state
credits is borne by the Government, the amounts involved require adoption of
adequate guidelines. Several provisions are under consideration, and have been
confirmed at negotiations, whereby (i) the level of public deposits with BDRN
would remain greater than the volume of direct loans to the State, (ii) any
debt-service obligation on international borrowings done on account of the
State would be immediately processed by the treasury, (iii) the level of
international borrowings contracted by BDRN on behalf of the State would be
maintained at levels compatible with Government's ability to service such
borrowings.
2.14      Portfolio quality and arrears.  As of September 30, 1980, BDRN's
arrears amounted to CFAF 2.8 billion (5% of total portfolio). Among these
arrears, only CFAF 1.9 billions (3% of total portfolio) were actually doubtful.
.Thanks to its profitability, BDRN has always been able to provision its
portfolio adequately; as of September 1980, provision stood at CFAF 5.9
billion (10% of total portfolio).
2.15      Financial Position.  As seen in the financial statements (Annex 3),
BDRN's total assets have once again doubled in the 1977-1980 period from
CFAF 32.2 billion in 1977 to 58.6 billion in 1980. In volume, most of this
growth represents expanded commercial operations, but the development and
state portfolios have increased at a faster pace. Total net worth has also
doubled over the same period, from CFAF 3.2 billion in 1977 to CFAF 7.3
billion in 1980. BDRN's ratio of long-term to equity of 2.4:1 as of
September 30, 1980 meets IDA's requirement that BDRN-s term indebtedness be
limited to four times its unimpaired capital and reserves; its ratio of total
debt to equity of 6.6:1 is well below the 12:1 ratio required by BCEAO.
Despite increasing administrative expenses and sizable provisions, BDRN's
profits before taxes have continued to increase rapidly, from CFAF 724 million
(16.5% of net worth) in 1977 to CFAF 2.0 billion (25.8% of net worth) in
1980.
Prospects
2.16      BDRN is one of the strongest development institutions in the Region.
It is highly profitable and has a sound financial base. In the coming years,
it will, nevertheless have to adjust to a changing and less favorable environ-
ment characterized by:
(a)  declining uranium revenues and increasing national debt service
obligations;
(b)  reduced Government revenues leading to substantial withdrawals
of public deposits with BDRN; and
(c)  keener competition from newly established commercial banks.



- 20
BDRN's management is fully aware of these changing circumstances. It has
adopted a coherent medium-term strategy which aims at reinforcing BDRN's
development operations. Simultaneously, BDRN plans to reduce its dependence
on public deposits by relying increasingly on foreign lines of credit to
finance its term operations. The proposed Credit would support this objec-
tive. Finally, BDRN would also upgrade its administrative capabilities
(premises, staff, procedures, data processing) and further strengthen
its Development Department with IDA's assistance (para 2.07 and 2.10).
2.17      Projections.  The financial projections in Annex 4 take into account
this changing environment and BDRN's strategy. They assume an annual increase
of 15% of commercial operations compared to an average increase of 25% during
the last three years. Despite the growth of term loans to the private sector,
the development portfolio will roughly show the same global figure owing to
substantial repayment on previous loans for civil works and mines. On the
liabilities side, the most significant assumption is the projected decrease in
treasury deposits to the level of State credits. Under these conditions and
despite the proposed IDA line of credit of US$12 million, BDRN would show a
financing gap increasing to 7 billion (US$26 million) in 1985, to be easily
covered by Central Bank rediscounts, borrowings on the Union's money market
and additional foreign borrowings.
B. Office de Promotion de lEntreprise Nigerienne (OPEN)
OPEN - The Institution
2.18      Background.  OPEN was incorporated in November 1978, to provide
technical assistance to Nigerien small enterprises. To help generate employ-
ment and exploit the country's natural resources, OPEN was to:
(i) promote new enterprises and investments through project identifica-
tion, entrepreneur development and project packaging;
(ii)  provide technical assistance to both new and on-going enterprises;
(iii)  study and prepare projects for bank financing;
(iv) provide or sponsor training in management, basic business skills
and technical expertise.
In addition, OPEN was to be responsible for administering a guarantee and
participation fund and eventually a program of common services to small
enterprises. Most of the technical and financial assistance required to
launch OPEN has been provided by a UNDP/UNIDO project of US$1.5 million
(including five expatriate advisors). In addition, IDA's contribution of
US$0.5 million has financed one senior advisor and some installation and
operating costs. Finally, OPEN operates with a Government subsidy of CFAF
50 million per annum.



- 21 -
2.19      Organization.  OPEN is managed by a General Manager responsible to
a 14 member board comprising representatives of various ministries and profes-
sional organizations, and chaired by the Minister of Mines and Industry.
There are four departments: (1) studies, promotion and implementation;
(2) extension service; (3) information and documentation; and (4) training.
The responsibilities of the various departments are outlined in an organiza-
tion manual issued in May 1980. Given the small size of the institution, the
existing structure is adequate. Finally, OPEN maintains proper accounts. Its
balance sheet and income statement are shown at Annex 5.
2.20      Staffing.  As of September 30, 1980, OPEN had 26 Nigerien employees,
including 8 professionals. Staff turnover is high among professionals and
their overall number is clearly insufficient for OPEN to carry out its activi-
ties. OPEN-s staff shortage is somewhat alleviated by the technical assistance
personnel mentioned above. OPEN staff needs to be strengthened both in number
and in quality and the Government would agree to second three additional
professionals to OPZN before December 1983.
OPEN - Operations
2.21      Achievements.  In less than two years of operations, OPEN can be
credited with a numbe rof positive achievements. Following an information
campaign throughout Niger in 1979, OPEN received more than 250 requests for
assistance. During the same period, the Studies and Promotion Department
prepared 20 project dossiers, which, if implemented, would result in 419 jobs
and investments of CFAF 3 billion; of these, four projects have already been
financed. The extension service has assisted 107 small firms, mostly in the
fields of mechanics, metal and woodworking. It has also issued several
brochures such as baker's and mechanic-s guides. Finally, several training
sessions have taken place :ior bookkeepers and bakers, while seminars on bank
credit have been conducted throughout the country in national languages.
2.22      Issues.  OPEN's management has demonstrated a strong commitment to
the Institution which is still at an early stage of development. Among
outstanding issues, the following need particular attention:
(a)  the guarantee and participation funds are still not incorporated
although they have informally given pro-forma guarantees and
equity contributicns. As these funds could contribute to OPEN's
promotional role, final agreement on their statutes would be
obtained before Juae 30, 1983;
(b)  OPEN's project pipeline shows a definite bias in favor of larger
industrial projects, with cost per job ranging up to US$63,000. Most
projects have difficulties in compieting their financing plan;
(c)  OPEN-s extension service is thinly spread (three nigeriens, two
NGO volunteers and one UNIDO engineer) and follow-up is difficult.
Entrepreneurs seem somewhat disappointed as their expectations have
been raised by the initial information campaign; and



- 22 -
(d) OPEN's training activities have only recently begun and it is
too early to assess their effectiveness. Our first impression
is, however, that OPEN has not developed a coherent training
strategy based on a thorough assessment of training needs and
a complete review of training possibilities. Rather, OPEN's
courses have been decided on an ad-hoc basis.
OPEN - Prospects
2.23      The establishment of OPEN fills a gap in the Nigerien business
environment; the institution has demonstrated a real commitment to its
objective of promoting Nigerien enterprises. To overcome its initial
weaknesses, OPEN needs to (a) develop a well thought-out strategy and
(b) improve its administration and staffing. In terms of OPEN's overall
strategy, there is a clear need to take into account:
(i) the overall business environment including the overwhelming presence
of the Nigerian market--a key factor in determining which industrial
branche are worth promoting;
(ii) a subsectoral approach, resulting from (i) above, rather than
ad-hoc project-by-project promotional policy, which has resulted in
a pipeline of sometimes questionable projects; subsectors likely to
be developed include garages, indigenous construction firms, metal
and wood works; and
(iii) the need for OPEN to act as a coordinator and not necessarily as a
"doer". Rather than being overstaffed and over-equipped and trying
to perform all assistance functions itself, OPEN should refer its
clients to the right source of specialized expertise (engineering,
training and financing).
In terms of administration and staffing, OPEN is suffering from inadequate
quarters (crowded offices, no training facilities) and is considering the
construction of new facilities on a site in Niamey's industrial zone. Its
premises would be built by small contractors supervised by OPEN's construction
assistance unit to be established under the project (para. 3.07). OPEN's
staff is still very weak and its training is poorly organized: professionals
are often away on seminars and "voyages d-etudes" which are sometimes of
questionable benefit. In relation to its proposed project, IDA would there-
fore invite OPEN to develop an efficient staff training program compatible
with operational constraints and requirements.
C. Centre des Metiers dArt du Niger
CMAN - Background
2.24      In 1967, the Artisan Workshop of the National Museum in Niamey
was established as a permanent, living exhibition of Nigerien crafts. The
more than 160 craftsmen affiliated with the museum have been, since 1977,



- 23 -
organized as a self-governing cooperative, which sells its products through
the museum's boutique. One hundred of them work on the Museum grounds and the
others in Maradi, Zinder and Agadez. Through its Artisan Workshop, the museum
sought to promote quality craftsmanship and artisan employment while preserving
traditional techniques. The lack of adequate facilities and the poor quality
of raw materials nevertheless inhibited productivity and diminished the value
of the artisans work. The leather artisan subsector was identified as the
most promising segment of the traditional sector by IDA, during appraisal of
the first employment creation project. Centre des Metiers d'Art du Niger was
therefore established under the first IDA project to improve product design
and production techniques and develop exports of leather artisan products.
CMAN - Its Operations
2.25      Opened officially in February 1980, CMAN, which now employs roughly
80 people, operates a workshop in Niamey and a boutique 1/ which sells about
CFAF 10 millions worth of leather craft each month. In November 1980,
regional operations started in Maradi, in a facility transferred from the
existing SONITAN tannery. At the same time, a new cooperative was established
in Zinder. In its two regional outfits, CMAN provides raw materials and
technical assistance in production. It also markets artisan products through
the Niamey boutique. CMAN has faced serious start up difficulties: it has
not yet reached its employment targets nor its objectives, i.e. commercial
exports and financial self-sufficiency. There have also been serious opera-
tional problems such as management weaknesses, inadequate reporting and lack
of statutes.
CMAN - Prospects
2.26      Satisfactory solutions are being implemented, including an audit of
CMAN-s accounts, appointment of a new technical assistance team, design of a
commercial accounting system and establishment of an interim management
committee. Export sales have recently begun and production standard have
greatly improved. Disbursement of this project's CMAN component would never-
theless be subject to the satisfactory implementation of the corrective
actions required by IDA including adoption of a satisfactory legal status.
CMAN has also been required to prepare a three-year action plan and budget
(1982-85), insisting on its "raison d'etre" which is to strengthen a tradi-
tional subsector rather than to develop its in-house production capacity. The
proposed project would therefore focus on training, support services (raw
materials and marketing) and assistance to independent artisans, now that
CMAN-s core workshops are in operation (para 3.09 and 3.10).
1/   A second boutique is being established in the newly opened Hotel Gaweye.



.TI    T the Proie t
O-:,  f   and Objective
3.01      Past ODerati ns   iDA s  1industrial and artisan sector employment
creation project" of US$5 million was approved in May 1978 and became effec-
tive in February 1979. Its primary purpose was to promote employment creation
in Niger-s industrial and artisan sector while strengthening institutions
through the provision of technical and financial assistance.  The project is
well underway and, as of September 17, 1981, disbursements had reached 74% of
the credit. As a whole, the project's institution building impact has been
positive on BDRN and OPEN while employment creation has been less successful
than anticipated, although it is too early to measure the full impact of the
project especially vis-a-vis the leather artisan population. Moreover, by
focussing exclusively on the manufacturing sector, the first project might
have overlooked the employment potential of other non-agricultural sectors
which play an important role in the Nigerien economy.
3.02      Objectives of the second project.  Whereas the Nigerien economy is
essentially based on agriculture and mines, the manufacturing, construction
and service sectors play an increasing role. The second IDF project would
support the Government's effort to diversify the economy and increase the
contribution of these sectors. To this end, the project would specifically:
(a) enable BDRN to continue its term financing operations, including
lending to SME and strengthening of existing enterprises;
(b) ease SME access to investment resources and technical assistance;
(c) upgrade artisans' products through a stable institution in the
promising leather subsector; and
(d) strengthen indigenous construction firms through the provisions
of technical assistance.
The proposed project is a follow-up operation. Its only innovation regards
the proposed assistance to indigenous construction firms. The project would
be supported by a Credit of US$16 million.
B. Project Description
Line of Credit to BDRN
3.03      US$12 million would be on-lent to BDRN by the Government of Niger
to provide medium-, long-term or equity financing for new and existing pro-
ductive entreprises, with the following conditions:



- 25 -
(a) Beneficiaries: subloans (and equity investments) would be made for
fixed investment and permanent working capital to economically and
financially viable subprojects in support sectors including SME,
industrial rehabilitation, agro-processing, manufacturing, repair
facilities, etc...  US$2.5 million would be earmarked as a minimum
share for small scale enterprises (fixed assets of CFAF 50 million
or less) and labor-intensive projects (cost per job of CFAF 4.5
million or less). For these, BDRN would be authorized to finance up
to 90% of subproject costs, including some local costs (para. 3.13).
For other projects, BDRN would finance up to 70% of subproject
costs, which represent the estimated direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs for such projects.
(b) On-lending terms, Government to BDRN: The line of credit would
be on-lent for 18 years including 3 years of grace with a fixed
amortization schedule (for administrative convenience and additional
sector support). The on-lending would be a Central Bank conditions
prevailing at the time of negotiations, i.e. 10.5% for most loans,
including a foreign exchange fee of 0.5% (para. 1.31). The portion
of the line of credit earmarked for SSE and labor-intensive subloans
would be passed on to BDRN at BCEAO's preferential rate of 8%
including a foreign exchange fee of 0.5%. IDA's standard commitment
fee of 1/2 of 1% would also apply to BDRN.
(c) Terms and conditions, final borrowers: The terms of BDRN's subloans
would range from three to 15 years with an average of nine years
for larger projects and six years for smaller projects. The grace
period would range from one to three years. While complying with
BCEAO's interest rate structure (which imposes final rates of 9-11%
for SSE and 10.5-15.5% for other borrowers), BDRN would agree to
charge a minimum of 3 percentage points above the relevant discount
rate, that is not less than 11% and 13.5%, including a foreign
exchange fee of 0.5%. Subborrowers would also be charged a com-
mitment fee of 0.50%. The individual free limit would be set at
US$200,000 and the aggregate free limit at US$4.0 million. Sub-
project appraisals would emphasize economic justification including
capital-labor balance, technology choices, value added and foreign
exchange savings or gains. BDRN would calculate an economic rate of
return--to be above 10% unless IDA otherwise agrees--for all sub-
projects above the free limit. For subprojects below the free
limit, it would calculate the ERR for the first subproject in each
branch (i.e., woodworking, garages, icemaking, etc....) and there-
after only when there is significant change in the conditions
affecting this particular branch.
Technical Assistance to BDRN
3.04      US$0.8 million would be passed on to BDRU as a grant to finance:



- 26 -
(a) four man-years of advisors to the Development Department.to con-
solidate earlier progress and complete training of the newly
appointed development manager and his staff.
(b) the organization and equipment of the Bank's in-house training
unit, including three man-years of a training and staff development
specialist, twelve man-months of short-term consultants, and pro-
curement of teaching material and equipment. BDRN would submit
tentative terms of reference for the Staff Development Specialist
and the proposed training unit for IDA's prior review.
(c) twelve man-months of a financial systems specialist to advise BDRN
on new procedures and computerized data processing. The advisor
would help BDRN's in-house staff review proposals received from
software firms and monitor the introduction of a new data processing
system.
Support to OPEN
3.05      US$1.88 million would be passed on to OPEN as a grant to address
some operating constraints, help establish a Technical Assistance Unit for
indigenous contractors and contribute to the construction of OPEN's premises.
3.06      General support.  OPEN would receive US$600,000 to support its
operations. Typical areas already identified for IDA support include:
(a) two man years of a senior advisor: He would assist OPEN's manage-
ment in the critical areas of strategy, organization and assistance
to artisans.
(b) Strategy Related Studies: to help OPEN establish a coherent
industrial promotion strategy and influence the Government's owni
efforts, the project would finance several strategy-related studies,
among which:
-    a survey of Niger's reported and unreported imports, with a
view to identify viable subsectors, import substitution
opportunities and export-oriented investments. For that
purpose, goods available on Nigerien market places and trans-
port flows with neighboring countries would be surveyed.  The
study would also determine the level and nature of incentives
required to promote the viable subsectors thus identified;
-    a survey of Niger's artisan clusters in Niamey, Maradi, Zinder
and Agadez, to determine their importance, the type of products
manufactured, the production methods, the social and cultural
organizational patterns, sources of raw materials and market-
ing channels. The study should help determine the type of
products to be made and the form of assistance best suited to
the informal sector (para. 1.07).



- 27 -
-    short term advisory services to the Ministry of Mines and
Industry (through OPEN for administrative convenience) to
follow-up on the Investment Code Commission's work and help
revise price control and Investment Code procedures (para.
1.22).
(c) Training Programs: Whereas OPEN's in-house training capabilities
are still embryonic, a number of local training institutions would
be willing to develop OPEN-sponsored training programs and accept
OPEN-selected candidates for training in bookkeeping, metal working,
woodworking, electricity, plumbing, etc. OPEN's cooperation with
other local training institutions would be preferable to either the
excessive development of its own training facilities or the present
practice of sending skilled workers abroad. The project would
finance the development of OPEN-sponsored seminars and courses and
the tuition and subsistence course of OPEN-nominated attendants.
OPEN would thus be able to sponsor training of students in local
vocational schools such as lycee technique, Kalhamaro, CFPP and
ENA moyenne (para. 1.27). Disbursements would be subject to IDA's
approval of individual agreements reached by OPEN with training
institutions on training programs to be jointly carried out.
(d) Budget Support. The project would provide limited funds (US$100,000)
for the procurement of goods and services required to enhance OPEN's
operational efficiency. The lists of equipment and goods to be
purchased by OPEN would be approved by IDA during yearly reviews,
when OPEN's provisional budget is submitted to its board. Spread
over a three years period, IDA's budgetary support would represent
an increment of 15% over OPEN's annual budgetary allocation of CFAF
55 million. All disbursements would be made against invoices.
3.07      Technical Assistance to Small Indigenous Contractors.  Societe
Nationale des Grands Travaux du Niger (SNGTN), a Government-owned construc-
tion firm, used to provide some assistance to small indigenous contractors
(tacherons) under subcontracting arrangements. 1/ Its liquidation, effective
June 16, 1981, has left these firms without support. The proposed project
would help establish a specialized Technical Assistance Unit, within OPEN, to
help small contractors upgrade their operations and gain access to markets
(para. 1.18). This unit would work closely with SYNAPEMEIN, the professional
organization representing the interests of national contractors. OPEN has
entered into an agreement with a local construction specialist to design the
organization and procedures of the proposed unit.
1/   Contracts for a total value of up to 2 billion were subcontracted
annually by SNGTN to small indigenous contractors. SNGTN also provided
useful services such as supplies management, accounting, quantity survey-
ing and equipment rental, etc.



- 28 -
(a)  Organization.  It would operate as a separate department within
OPEN and comprize four sections: a marketing section to be informed
of proposed jobs and assist enterprises in submitting bids; an
extension service to prepare plans, quantity surveys and assist
enterprises in carrying out their work; a training section and an
equipment rental section for cranes, mixers, vibrating machines,
framing, etc. In addition, the unit would initiate a supplies
cooperative where members could purchase construction materials.
The Unit's design and budget would be submitted to IDA for review
and approval prior to disbursement on this component.
(b)  Staffing.  Initial staffing requirements includes:  (i) an
experienced technician to prepare estimates and quantity surveys,
break down larger contracts, supervise construction sites and
control quality; (ii) a specialized accountant to help contractors
keep their books and manage construction sites; and (iii) three
experienced skilled workers in the field of masonry, carpentry
and wood working, electrical and air conditioning installation.
Personnel would preferably be recruited locally if available.
Otherwise, OPEN would monitor international recruitment.
(c) Financing. The project would support: (i) professional staffing
needs during the start up period (3 years); (ii) basic furnishings
and supplies and (iii) the stock of small equipment to be rented. 1/
For that purpose US$750,000 have been earmarked.
3.08      Construction of OPEN's Building.  The project would finance the
construction of OPEN-s office building 2/ on a plot already purchased in the
Industrial Zone of Niamey (para. 2.23). Drawings and estimates, which are
being prepared by OPEN-s consultant, would be reviewed and approved by IDA
prior to disbursement on this component. A simple structure, the building
would be constructed by small contractors under the supervision of the
Unit's staff. Preliminary estimates indicate a cost of CFAF 180 million
including contingencies (US$670,000) at substantial savings over current local
standards. This assignment would give the Unit an early start and have a
beneficial demonstration impact over both contractors and potential clients.
IDA would finance 70% of the building's costs.
Centre des Metiers d'Art de la Republique du Niger
3.09      Component Objectives.  The proposed project would consolidate
CMAN s experience, improve its production and marketing activities and streng-
then its management. Consistent with the objectives discussed in para. 2.28,
a total of US$1.2 million would be passed on to CMAN as a grant to finance:
(a) the establishment of separate training facilities;
1/   The list of equipment is in the Project File.
2/   OPEN has to vacate its present premises at the end of 1982.



- 29 -
(b) the development of support services for all leather artisans,
including those working independently;
(c) continued technical assistance over the period October 1982 to
October 1984.
A three year action plan and budget including these inputs has been presented
discussed at negotiations and its approval by IDA would be a condition of
disbursement for this component.
3.10      Training Facilities.  The IDA credit would finance the establishment
of separate training facilities, their equipment and necessary supplies as
well as a monthly scholarship for trainees, up to a total of US$240,000.
The training center would be expected to train 120 artisans over a four year
period. Detailed drawings and lists of equipment required are available in
the project file.
3.11      Common Services.  The credit would also finance:  (a) the initial
working capital needed by CMAN's in-house production department as well as by
independent artisans (skins, hides and materials); (b) the establishment of
CMAN's marketing department and its promotional actions; and (c) the establish-
ment of a revolving fund to provide credit-in-kind loans for tools and raw
materials to help trained artisans set up their own workshops.
3.12      Technical Assistance.  The first project finances technical assist-
ance until October 1982. US$660,000 will be allocated to cover the period
October 1982-October 1984 (7 man-years). The team would include a senior
advisor to CMAN's management, two leather technicians/trainers, and, at a
later stage, short-term consultant services for commercial and marketing
operations.
C. Project Costs and Financing
3.13      Total project costs are estimated at US$21.3 million, including
taxes of US$1.8 million (8%). Foreign exchange costs would be US$15.5 million
(73% of total project costs). The proposed IDA credit of US$16 million would
therefore represent 75% of total project costs.  It would finance  all foreign
expenditures. Some local costs (US$0.5 million) related to technical assist-
ance and SSE subprojects would also be financed out of credit proceeds.
Project costs and the proposed financing plan are summarized in the following
table (see p.30).
D. Project Implementation
3.14      The project would be carried out by BDRN, OPEN and CMAN for their
respective components. However, to ease project administration, BDRN would
coordinate the overall project implementation and centralize withdrawal
applications for submission to IDA, as it did under the first project.



NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Project Costs                        Project Component                                   Financing Plan (us$ 000)
Local       Foreign    TofaI      Local      Foreign   Total                                             IDA      13DRf     Entrefpreneilt   Government    Total
(CFAF million)                     (US$ '000)
1. BDRN: line of credit
216           567       783       800        2,100   2,900         a) small scale                    2,500       -              400              -        2,900
1,107         2,565    3,672      4,100       9,500  13,600         b) other enterprises              9,500        -            4,100 l                    13,600
1,323         3,132      F171     4,900      1i6        T,500        Total Line of Credit            12,000        -             ,500                       T-
3. BDRN: technical assistance
76           216       292       280          800   1,080         Total Technical Assistance          Boo       280            -               -         1,080
4. OPEN:
20           162       182        75          6oo     675         a) general support                  6oo       -              -               75          675
24           203      227         90          750     840         b) construction unit                750       -              -               90          9140
37           143       180       140          530     670         c) building                         530       -              -              140          670
~~~§  ~ C508  589  305        1,880   2,185         Total OPEN                        1,880        -              -              305       -2-,1T5
4. CMAN
16            81        97        60          300     360        TaT)ommon services                   300       -              -               60          360
49            65      114        180          240     420         b) training                         240       -              -              180          420
56           142      178        135         525      660        c) technical assistance             660        -              -               -           66o
1~T2                    838       375        1,405    T4-0   Total CMAN                              1,200       -              - 2'0                     1,445
32       32         -          120     120      Unallocated                            120        -              -                           120
1,581         4,176    5,757      5,860       15,465  21,325      Total Costs with Taxes              16,000       280          4.500            525       21,305
(493)          -        (493)   (1,827)         -    (1,827)    Taxes *                                 _         (42)        (1,650)          (135)      (1,827)
1,088         4,176    5,264      4,033       15,465  19,498      Total Cost Net of Taxes            16,000        238          2,850             410      19,4'98
* Based on an average tax rate of 10% for investments and 15% on locally purchased goods and local T.A. expenditures



- 31 -
3.15      Monitoring.  In addition to its audited statements, BDRN would
submit standard semi-annual progress reports to IDA, including information
on the financial and economic merits of approved subprojects and on the
implementation of the staff development program. Each year, OPEN would sub-
mit its accounts, annual report and budget. In addition, it would prepare
a semiannual progress report on project implementation. For the studies
described in para. 3.06, OPEN would submit to IDA for approval the terms of
reference, consultant resumes and proposals. Conclusions would be discussed
with IDA and agreed recommendations would be implemented by the Government in
consultation with IDA. The construction specialist-s report on the Technical
Assistance Unit for small contractors would be reviewed and approved by IDA
prior to disbursements on that component. IDA would also approve the drawings
and estimates for OPEN's office building prior to disbursement on that compo-
nent. CMAN would submit its annual accounts audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA and quarterly progress reports on project implementation.
3.16      Consultants.  The qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment for all advisors and short-term consultants financed under
the project would be satisfactory to the Association. Provision has been
made to finance 19 man-years of advisors and 34 man-months of short-term
consultants estimated at an average foreign exchange cost of US$6,900 per
man-month, plus local expenditures and subsistence of US$2,500 per man-month
in the case of short-term consultants. Housing costs for residential tech-
nical assistance to CMAN will be covered by the project because of Government
restrictions regarding these expenditures.
3.17      Procurement.  BDRN would follow its usual procurement procedures for
development loans. Its development department checks that several quotations
are obtained, it verifies the value and quality of goods purchased and controls
that prices are constantly compared with those offered by other suppliers to
ensure that the lowest competitive price is obtained. For most projects BDRN
disburses to the suppliers directly and in the case of civil works, on-site
verification, often assisted by public work staff, proceeds disbursements.
The purchase of equipment and goods under the OPEN and CMAN's components is
not suitable for international competitive bidding, given the small size and
the nature of most goods to be purchased. OPEN and CMAN are however expected
to follow local procurement procedures acceptable to IDA, and to ensure that
goods and services are suitable and reasonably priced.
3.18      Disbursement.  Disbursement of the entire credit will be managed
by BDRN.  Disbursements would be fully documented and would be made on the
following basis:
(a) subloans: 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expendi-
tures up to the amount of BDRN's subloan, as authorized by IDA;
(b) experts and training program in BDRN: 100% of foreign exchange
costs;
(c) goods and services to OPEN and CMAN: 100% of total costs, net of
taxes;



- 32 -
(d) OPEN's building: 70% of total costs; and
(e) training programs: 100% of total costs, net of taxes.
Annex 7 gives the estimated disbursement schedule.
E. Benefits and Risks
3.19      The project is expected to generate the following benefits to Niger:
(a) the financing of viable investments would help broaden and diversify
the country's economic base. Technical and financial assistance
made available to small entrepreneurs would generate interest among
traders for industrial and other productive investments. Specific
rehabilitation of ailing public investments would help reduce
inefficiencies, increase productivity and alleviate the burden on
public finances. BDRN's appraisal capabilities and OPEN's promo-
tional role would help select and monitor these investments.
(b) In these tasks, BDRN and OPEN would be assisted by the institution-
building components of the project which continue the efforts
initiated under the Employment Creation Project, and broaden their
scope to deal with the entire institutions. This institutional
rather than project orientation gives a greater impact to IDA-s
efforts, although it requires a more regular supervision effort.
(c) IDA's continued commitment to the Artisan Center despite start-
up difficulties and mitigated performance is expected to yield
positive results, as the Artisan Center upgrades the skills of
artisans and provides them with stable employment as a result of
the marketing, training and administrative services it delivers
to them.
(d) Finally, the project's attempt to promote the indigenous construc-
tion industry through a technical assistance unit in OPEN would
contribute to lowering the costs and improving the quality of
construction, and would provide employment opportunities for many
semi-skilled laborers, and develop viable indigenous enterprises in
a sector where foreign enterprises are still dominant.
3.20      Macro-economic developments, such as another drought year or the
reduction of the public investment program triggered by the drop in uranium
prices might adversely affect the project by reducing the number of productive
investments to be financed. Increasing foreign aid flows to Niger would
however help maintain an adequate level of economic activity. In addition,
public finance difficulties could affect BDRN, if it were not adequately
protected in its dealings with the State (para. 2.13). Project-specific risks
are mostly of a managerial nature, especially for CMAN and OPEN. For that



- 33 -
reason, particular attention is to be paid to institutional strategy (OPEN),
management capabilities (CMAN) and adequate monitoring.  Being a follow-up
operation, the project would benefit from the experience acquired and the
rapport built up during the last project.
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      The report recommends an IDA credit of US$16 million to the Republic
of Niger. The Government of Niger would pass on US$12 million of this amount
to BDRN as a line of credit to finance productive investments.  The remaining
portion would be passed on as a grant to BDRN (US$0.8 million), OPEN (US$1.88
million) and CMAN (US$1.2 million) for their respective institutional com-
ponents.
4.02      During negotiations, agreement has been reached on the following
major points:
(a)  from the Government, that:
(i) it will communicate the findings and recommendations on the
working group on bidding procedures to IDA for its review
(para. 1.18);
(ii) it will revive the commission in charge of reviewing the
Investment Code with a view to introduce changes in procedures
before June 1984 (para. 1.22);
(iii) it will adopt adequate measures to protect BDRN from risks on
its operations with the State (para. 2.13); and
(iv) it will adopt the statutes of the Equity Participation and
Guarantee Funds managed by OPEN before June 30, 1983 (para.
2.22(a)).
(b)  from BDRN, that:
it agrees to the on-lending term and conditions to subborrowers
and to economic and financial criteria for eligible subprojects
including a 10% Economic Rate of Return (para. 3.03).
(c)  from OPEN, that:
(i) it will recruit three additional professionals (two financial
analysts and one technician) by December 31, 1983 to strengthen
its national staff (para. 2.20);
(ii) it will recruit an advisor to the general manager and carry-out
the studies and program presented in para. 3.06; and



- 34 -
(iii) it will submit to IDA on an annual basis its annual report,
next year's budget and proposed use of the IDA allocation
for review and approval (para. 3.06(d) and 3.15).
(d)  from CMAN, that it:
(i)  submitted evidence that IDA's recommendations conveyed in
aide-memoires of November 80, February 81 and July 81 were
carried out (para. 2.26);
(ii) submitted a three years action plan, work program and draft
budget for IDA's review and approval (para. 3.09); and
(iii) will submit quarterly operational reports (para. 3.15).
4.03      The signing of a financing agreement between the Borrower and
BDRN would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.04      Disbursements on several project component would be subject to
the following conditions:
a.   OPEN
Technical Assistance Unit for small contractors: IDA's
approval of the Unit's design and budget (para 3.07(a));
b.  CMAN
(i) Satisfactory implementation of corrective measures required
by IDA (para 2.26); and
(ii) adoption of statutes and reglement interieur acceptable to
IDA (para 2.25).
4.05      With the above conditions fulfilled, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 14 million (US$16 million).



- 35 -                            Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
N I G E R
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B.D.R.N.: PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS
Sector Distribution of Approvals, 1977-1980
(CFAF million)
1977    1978     1979      1980
Small Scale Enterprises (SSE) 1/   38        76       161       167
Medium Scale Enterprises (MSE) 2/  50        581      641       761
Civil-Works construction (C.W.C.)  -       3,100    1,870       150
Mines                                -     1,375    2,400       415
Other Industries                   454       558      576       580
TOTAL                 542    5,690    5,648    2,073
1/   For each enterprise, total loans outstanding: less than CFAF 50 million
2/   For each enterprise, total outstanding loans between CFAF 50 million and
CFAF 400 million.



Annex 1
- 36 -                         Page 2 of 4
NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BDRN: Portfolio Analysis
Medium- and Long-Term Loans Outstanding
Distribution by Sector and Source of Funds as of September 30, 1980
(CFAF million)
% of                                     Long Term
Total    BDRN    USAID    BAD    IDA        and CCCE       TOTAL
Mines and Energy      41.0   4,991       -        -      -           -          4,991
Civil Works and
Construction        16.6   1,999       37       -      -           -          2,036
Transport             16.8   1,037       24       -      -          994         2,055
Construction
Materials            1.7      120      90       -      -           -            210
Textiles and
Leather              4.7     219        -       -      -          355           574
Mechanical
Industries           1.1     131        9       -      -           -            140
Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      2.6     255       20       32     22          -            329
Hotels and Tourism    8.2       527     148      218    103          -            996
Miscellaneous          7.3      325      18      245    281          27           896
100.0   9,604     346      495    406       1,376        12,227
%     78.5      2.8     4.1    3.3        11.3          100.0



NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BDRN: PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS
Long Term Loans Outstanding as of September 30,1980
(CFAF million)
Total Project       B.D*R.N.         Duration
Investment        Lonn           (grace period)
ASECNA              Transport               Public             NA                80                10 (5)
SORENTENTE          Tourism                 Public/private    90                 25               14 (3)
O.P.T               Telecommunications      Public            140               625                12 (6)
S.N.T.N.I           Transport               Public/private   NA               1,200               13 (3)
S.N.T.N.I.          Transport               Public/private   NA                  230               12 (2)
1,597.5
0
"fD   _ 
4b



- 38 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BDRN: PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS
Equity Portfolio Sector Distribution
as of September 30, 1980
(CFAF million)                (%)
Mines and Energy             214                      21.7
Building construction
and civil works              30                       3.
Transport                     30                       3.
Cement                        87                       8.8
Textile                       37                       3'7
Other light industries       150                      15.2
Agriculture                   71                       7.2
Agro-Industry                 14                       1.4
Hotels, leisure,tourism      166                      16.9
Financial institutions        46                       4.7
Trade and services           142                      14.4
987                     100.



Annex 2
- 39 -
NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,RnRN* State Credit Portfolio as of September 30,1980
(CFAF million)
Balance              Committed             Total
Outstanding          and not disbursed    co mitted
Prefinancings
Sonichar (capital)            1,000                                     1,000
Goundel (telecomm)              757                                       757
Airplane,                       305                   -                   305
Miscellaneous                   261                   47                  308
Subtotal                  2,323                   47                2,370
Term Credits
Sonichar                      1,012                    -                1,012
M.D.N.                          736                    -                  736
Agadez airport                  668                   59                  727
Maradi airport                   -                   645                  645
Diffa airport                    -                   500                  500
Miscellaneous                 1,362                  414                1,776
Subtotal                  3,778                1,618                5,396
State Borrowings 1/
Midland Bank                  4,000                2,000                 6,000    (Tahoua road)
RNP                              _                 1,700                 1,700    (Congress Palace)
BFCE                                               1,500                 1,500      (FORACO)
Interunion Bank                  -                 3,250                 3,250      (Goure Road)
Subtotal                   4,000                8,450                12,450
Total                     10,101               10,115                20,216
1/   Borrowing on behalf and with the guarantee of the Niger Republic. Not included
in financial statements.



NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
aDRl: Income Statements 1976-1930
(CFAF million)
INCOME                                       1976   %         1977   %         1978   %          1979   %            1980   %
Interest from loans                          2,188  78.6      2,759  76.9      3,178  76.3       4,549  79.8         6,666  79.9
Fees and commissions                           453  16.3        678  19          535  12.8         902  15.8         1,348  16.2
Other Income                                   142   5.0        119   3.3        198   4.8         247   4.4           238   2.9
Etraordinary profits and profits
from previous years                          2   0.1         30   0.8        252   6.1         (21)  -              95   1.0
Total Income:                 2,785  100,      3,586  100.      4,163  100.       5,677  100.         8,347  100.
EXPENDITURES
Personanl expenses                             202    9.2       240    8.5       338   10.3        419    9.5          609    9.6
Other administrative expenses                  128    5.8       168    5.8        239    7.3       289    6.6          423    6.6
Total administrative             330   (15.0)    408   (14.3)    577  (17.6)         708   (16.1)    1;032   (16.2)
expenses:
Financial charges                              942    42.8   1,052    36.7   1,255   38.2    1,530    34.8           2,769    43.5
Depreciation                                    26     1.2       46      1.6      85    2.6         77      1.7         83      1.3
Taxes and duties                                 9     0.4       12      0.4      14    0.4         35      0.8         27      0.4
Provisions                                     892    40.6   1,344    47.0   1,351   41.2    2,052    46.6           2,457    38.6
Total expenditures:            2,199   100.    2,862   100.    3,282  100.         4,402   100.        6,368   100.
Net Pro?it before taxes                        586              724              881             1,275               1,979
Taxes                                          234              290              352               511                 993
Net Profit after taxes                         352              434              529               764                 986
41
I-



RIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BDRN:Balance Sheet - 1976-1980
(CFAF million)
Assets                                    1976           1977           1978           1979             1980
Cash, banks and correspondents            4,245          2,695          2,071          2,770            4,286
Discount                                   2,090         3,754          5,921          5,976            7,427
Current Accounts                         11,368         12,625         17,928         17,983           24,564
Miscellaneous debtors                      2,322         3,165          3,064          5,118            7,234
(Short-Term provisions)                (2,083)        (1,969)        (3,933)        (3,961)          (5,651)
Total Current Assets Net         17,942         20,270         25,051         27,886           37,860
State Credits                              3,447         6,339          4,863          5,856            6,102
Medium & Long-Term                         3,043         4,221          6,142          9,281           12,373
(Provisions)                                       (19)          (103)                           (147)
Equity                                       744            858           773            843            1,088
(Provisions)                       (173)          (212)           (22)           (22)             (58)
Net Portfolio                             3,614          4,848          6,790         10,102           13,256
Net fixed assets                             399            764           902            994            1,336
Total Assets                           25,402        32,221         37,606         44,838           58,554
Liabilities
Current Accounts                     9,781         12,077         16,404         16,304           20,914
Miscellaneous Short-Term
Liabilities                     3,213          5,933          5,988          9,964           11,377
Treasury Deposits                    6,000          6,800          8,500          9,000           12,925
Term Deposits                        2,997          2,857          2,627          1,003            2,780
Savings Deposits                        48             79            107            139              246
Term Borrowings                      1,336          1,233          l1,89          1,815            2,678
Total Liabilities                 23,375         28,979         34,814         38,225           50,920
Equity
Share Capital                              1,150         1,150          1,150          2,500            2,500
Reserves and Retained Earnings               877         2,092          1.642          4.113            5,134
Total Net Worth                    2,027          3,242          2,792          6,613            7,634
Total Liabilities and Equityl/            25,402        32,221         37,606         44,839           58,554
1/ This total does not include the following:
Bills for Collection                         956         1,221          1,868          1,902            3,461
Documentary Credits                        1,009         2,040          2,843          5,808            2,556    M
Guarantees                                 3.453         4,051          6,850         10,101           15,337     m x
5,418         7,312         11,561         17,811           21,354     0 w



- 42 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B.D.R.N. Financial Forecasts: Assumptions
1.    EQITY PARTICIPATIONS
- Commitments: 100% in year of approval
- Disbursements: 40% in year of approval and 60% in following year
1981        1982         1983         1984        1985
Disbursement
on Equity         174         210          222          240         240
- Dividends: 2% of outstanding portfolio.
2.   LOAN COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
- Commitments of development loan are expected as follows:
(in percentage of approved amounts)
. S & M S.E.   80% in year of approval  and  20% in following year
* Civil works  90% in year of approval  and  10% in following year
* Mines       100% in year of approval
, Other L.S.E. 75% in year of approval  and  25% in following year
- Disbursements of commitments are expected as follows:
(in percentage of committed amounts)
, S&M S.E.     90% in year committed    and  10% in following year
. Civil works  70% in year committed    and  30% in following year
. New Mines    40% in year committed           40% following year and 20% year
after
. Other L.S-E. 75% in year committed    and  25% following year
3.    TERM
- Loans to SMEs and civil works enterprises are expected to average
six years term with one year grace.
- Loans to mining corporations are expected to average five years term                 C
with one year grace.
- Loans to L.S.Es are expected to average nine years term with two year
grace.
4.    STATE CREDITS
- State credits are assumed to increase by 5% in 1981, 10% in 1982,
and remain constant thereafter.



- 43 -                          Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
5.    PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES
- Equity Portfolio: 5% of gross equity portfolio
- State Credit: nil
- Term loans: 2% of gross term loans
- Discount and current accounts: 15% of gross figures.
6.    GENERAL PROVISIONS AND INCOME TAX
- Aniual general provisions for risks on portfolio are assumed to
equal 5% of profit before tax. Therefore, income tax rate of 50% is reduced
to 47.5%.
7.    REVENUES
- BDRN is assumed to charge the following annual rates to its customers:
bill discounted 13%; current accounts 15%; medium-term credit S.S.E. 9%;
other medium and long-term credits 13%; state credits 13%; miscellaneous
debtors 10%.
- BDRN will also earn other revenues from reinvested cash (annual rate 10%
of the reinvested amount) and off balance sheet (8% of average annual
figure).
- Other income, including rents, are assumed to grow by 5% per year.
8.    ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
- Administrative expenses including personnel are expected to grow by
20% per annum, reflecting setting up of a new computerized system,
increased staff, additional technical assistance and training expenses.
9.    FIXED ASSETS
- CFAF 1090 million increase in 1981, 750 million in 1982 and 150 million
thereafter. All figures include annual replacement investment.
10.   DEPRECIATION EXPENSES
- The cost of building construction is depreciated over twenty years,
equipment and furniture over five years.
11.   DIVIDENDS
- Dividend payouts expected to be 5% of profit after tax after deduction
of 15% for special reserves (i.e. 4.25% of profit after tax).
12.   SHORT TERM
- Short term assets including discount, current accounts, and miscellaneous
debtors are assumed to grow by 15% per annum.



-44 -                            Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
13.    ANNUAL INCREASE IN OFF BALANCE SHEET
- Total off balance sheet operations are expected to increase by 3%
per annum reflecting both the decrease of guarantees for civil works
and the increase of guarantees for importation of petroleum.
14.    TREASURY DEPOSITS
- Treasury deposits are assumed to remain constant in 1981, to be reduced
by the annual repayment of state credits in 1982 and 1983, and to equal
state credits outstanding thereafter.
15.      CURREiT LIABILITIES
- Current accounts are assumed to grow at 10% per annum. Other current
liabilities are assumed to grow at 15% per annum.
16.    SAVINGS DEPOSITS
- Savings deposits are assumed to increase by 3% per annum.
17.    "OTHER TERM DEPOSITS"
- Other term deposits are assumed to remain constant.
18.    COSTS OF BORROWINGS
Borrowing                  annual rate %              Borrowing         Annual rate %
USAID                           3.5                   Current liabilities       6
BAD I                           7.5                   Savings deposits          7
CCCE                            8.5                   Treasury deposits         8
IDA I                           7.5                   Other term deposits       8
BAD II                          9
IDA II                          9.5
BOAD                           10.
19.    IDA II
- The second IDA credit is assumed to be repaid over fifteen years with three
years grace.



NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BDRN: Projected Balance Sheet 1981-1985
(CFAF million)
Assets                           %                      1980              1981              1982           1983             1984         1985         %
Cash,banks and correspondents    7.3                    4,286             3,162           3,482            3,805            4,112       4,440         4.4
Discount                                                7,427             8,423            9,574          10,905           12,442      14,216
Current Accounts                57 3                  24,564             29,204          32,763           36,862           41,582      47,017        64.2
Miscellaneous debtors                                   7,234             6,580           7,612            8,800           10,166      11,736
(short-term provisions)                             (5, 651)                           (6                                (7,567)      8,357)
Total current assets net                   37,860             41,396          147,039          53,453          60,735       69,052
State Credits                   10.4                   6,102              6,407           7,048             7,048           7,01P       7,048         7.0
Medium and Long-term            20.9                   12,373            15,051           17,938          19,356          20,205       20,597        20.1
(Provisions)                                        (147)              (192)           (238)            (254)           (262)        (266)
Equity                           1.8                    1,088             1,242            1,432           1,643           1,854        2,0o74        1.9
(Provisions)                                         (58)               (73)            (92)            (112)           (134)        (151)
Net Portfolio                                          13,256            16,028           19,040          20,624          21,663       22,254
Net Fixea Assets                 2.3                    1,336             2,292           2,813            2,682           2,564        2,457         2.4
Total Assets                100.                    58554             66,123          75,940            3807           92,010      100,811       100.
Liabilities
Short-term liabilities          55.1                   32,291            35,390          40,561           45,491          51,024       57,247        56.9
Other borrowings                                                    2,013           4,922            5,753           7,993        7,719         7.6
Treasury Deposits                22.1                   12,925            12,925           11,535           9,968           7,048        7,048         6.9
Term deposits                     4.7                    2,780             2,780           2,780            2,780           2,780        2,780         2.8
Savings deposits                  O.14                     246               253              261             268             276          285         0.3
T6rm Borrowings                   4.6                    2,678             2 783           3,434            4,439           4,916        4,686         4.6
Total Liabilities                                50,920            56,t44          63,49303                                      79,765
Equity                                                                                     6 94
Share Capital                     4.3                    2,500             2,500            2,500           2,500           2,500        2,500         2.5    Ix
Reserves and Returned Earnings    8.8                    5 134             7,479            9 947          12 608          15,473       18 546        18.4   o
Total Net Worth          (13.1)                                     9 979             1             T510            17,973                    (20.9)  "
Tothl Liabilities and Equity    100.                     5,12                                                              92,010      lO5Tl 10l.
Total off balance sheet                                 21,354            21,990           22,650          23,329          24,029       24,749



NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVR    ET PROJECT
BDRN: Projected Income Statement 1981-1985
(CFAF million)
ffi          1980                 1981                  1982           1983           1984         1985           _
INCOME FROM
- Invested cash                    2.5           210                   488                  4F4             496           538           580           3.8
- Current Assets                  56.7         4,735                 5,452                6,158           6,980         7,930         9,029          59.4
- State Credits                    9.14          786                   813                  875             916           916           916           6. o
- Term Loans                      13.5         1,126                 1,782                2,159           2,454         2,617         2,710          17.8
- Equity                           0.2            19                    23                   27              31            35            39           0.2
- Off balance sheet and
other income                    17.7         1,471                 1,735                1,786           1,840         1,895         1,952          12.8
Total Income           100.          8,347                10,293               11,459          12,717        13,931        15,226         100.
EXPENSES
- Administrative Expenses         16.2        1,032                  1,203                1,444           1,732         2,079         2,495          27.4
- Financial Clsrges               43.9        2,796 *                3,607                4,092           4,549         4,904         5,251          57.6
- Depreciation                     1.3           83                    134                  229             281           268           256           2.8
- Provisions                      38.6        2,457                    682                  784             863           978         1,111          12.2
Total Expenses         100.         6,368                  5,626                6,549           7,425         8,229         9,113         100.
Net Profit before Tax                  1,979                  4,667                4,910           5,292         5,702         6,113
Income Tax                            993                  2,217                2,332           2,514         2,709         2,903
Net Profit after Tax                     986                  2,450                2,578           2,778         2,993         3,209
Dividends                                                       104                   110            118            127          136
Reserves and Retained Earnings                                2,346                2,468           2,660         2,866         3,076
*  Taxes and duties included ( CFA 27 million )
o -



- 47 -
Annex 4
NIGER                                   Page 6 of 7
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BDRN: Projected Cash Flow Statement 1981-1985
(CFAF million)
SOURCES                    1981          1982         1J983           1984        1985
Beginning Balance               4,286          3,162         3,481         3,805       4,112
Cash from Operations            3,266          3,591         3,923         4,239       4,576
Repayment of Loans              2,288          2,831         3,953         4,537       5,097
New current liabilities         3,098          5,171         4,930         5,533       6,223
New Long Term Borrowings          251            941         1,340           891         449
New other Borrowings            2,013          4,922         5,753         7,922       7,719
Total Sources         15,202        20,618         23,380       26,997       28,176
USES
Disbursement of Loans          10,553         12,402        12,289        13,309      14,567
Increase Equity Portfolio         154            190           202           220         220
Increase Fixed Assets           1,090            750           150           150         150
Mature Short Term Borrowings      -            2,013         4,922         5,753       7,993
Mature Long Term Borrowings       139          1,672         1,894         3,326          670
Dividend                          104            110           118           127         136
Total Uses           12,040       17,137          19,575       22,885       23,736
Accumulated Cash                3,162         3,481          3,805         4,112       4,440



NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BDRN: Actual and Projected Financial Ratios
1976        1977         1978         1979         1980        1981         1982        1983       1984       1985
Income and Expenses as % of
Average Assets
- Gross Income                           10.9         11.2         11.1         12.7         14.2        15.5        15.1        15.2       15.1        15.1
- 'inancial Expenses                      3.7          3.2          3.3          3.4          4.7         5.5         5.3         5.4         5.3        5.2
- Administrative Expenses                 1.3          1.3          1.5          1.6          I.8         1.8         1.9         2.1        2.3         2.5
- Provisions                              3.5          4.2          3.6          4.6          4.1         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.1        1.1
- Taxes                                   0.9          0.9          0.9          1.1          1.7         3.3         3.1         3.0         2.9        2.9
Profit as % of Average Total Assets        1.4          1.3          1.4          1.7          1.7         3.7         3.4         3.3         3.3        3.2
Profit as % of Share Capital              30.6         37.7         46.          30.6         39.4        98.        103.1       111.1       119.7      128.3
Profit as % of Average Equity             17.3         16.5         32.6         23.1         25.8        27.8        23.0        20.1        18.1       16.4
Debt/Equity Ratio
- Term debt/Equity                       5.1          3.3          4.4          1.8          2.4         1.9         1.4          1.2       o.8         0.7
- Total debt/Equity                     11.5          8.9         12.5          5.8          6.6         5.6         5.1          4.5       4.1         3.8
ol
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPEN: Balance Sheet
SITUATION PATRIMONIALE (BILAN DU 1/10/79 AU 30/9/80)
(CFAF)
A C T I F                        .                              P A S S I F
Mlontant brut Amortissement Montant Net
TIN'OBILISATIONS CORPORELLES                                                     Subvention d'equipement
Ierrain                                 9.191.250                     9.191.250  Etat                     39.129.305
"ateriel roulant                       36.014.395    23.052.033      12.962.362  Eanque Mondiale           15.011.362  54.140.667
iMobilier, Mat6riel de bureau          14.864.656      2.845.224     12.019.432
"obilier MIateriel de logement          2.845.705        405.568      2.440.137
._______  ._______  .____ _   Report  a  nouveau             -1.307.628
62.916.006    26.302.825     36.613.181
AUTRES VALEURS IMMOBILISEES
Depots et cautionnement                   118.125                       118.125
DETTES A COURT TERME
VALEURS REALISABLES ET DISPONIBLES
Autres debiteurs                        5.402.763                                 Fournisseurs                200.000
BDRN Cpte No. 4 002 157                14.112.000                                Autres creanciers            492.202
DDRN Cpte No. 00.01.19637               5.732.783                                Charges a payer              289.070
Caisse                                     65.965                    25.313.511  Cpte d'attente a regul. 14.112.000 15.093.272
RESULTAT EXPLOITATION (Perte)       -5.881.494
62.044.817                                       62.044.817
>
rD D
x
0
Nh



NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPEN: Income Statement
SOLDE CARACTERISTIQUE DE GESTION AU 30 SEPTEMBRE 1980
(CFAF)
'o. Cptes                                              D E B I T   No. Cptes                                            C R E D I I
8U DETERMINATION MIARGE BRUTE (PM)                                  80 DETERMINATION MARGE BRUTE (PM)
81 DETERMINATION VALEUR AJOUTEE                                    81 DETERMINATION VALEUR AJOUTEE
61        Matieres et fournitures consomm6es         9.149.647
62        Transports consommes                       3.025.000
63        Autres services consomm6s                 15.759.586                Valeur ajout6e (solde d6biteur)         27.934.233  I
27.934.233                                                       27.934.233
82 DETERMINATION RESULT. EXPLOITATION                               h2 DETERMINAT. RESULT. EXPLOITATION
Valeur ajout6e (virement solde dgbiteu )27.934.233
64        Charges et pertes diverses                 1.304.255        74      Produits et profits divers                 532.482
65        Frais de personnel                        30.786.031        76      Subvention d'exploitation               65.213.265
66        Impots et taxes                               158.000       77      Produits financiers                      1.965.796
67        Frais financiers                               24.020
Dotations aux amortissements              13.386.498                Resultats d'exploitation (perte)         5.881.494
73.593.037                                                       73.593.037
0
.                        .~~~~~~~~
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I( 



- 51 -
Annex 6
NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMAN: Financial Highlights
1.  Sales                                          Sales (in CFAF'OOO)
Period 10-1-75 to 30-9-80                     19,393
Period 10-1-80 to 09-30-81                    87,508   + 351%
Period 10-1-81 to 09-30-82 (forecast)        155,200    t 77%
2.  Balance Sheet (as of September 30, 1980)               (CFAF'000)
Assets: Fixed Assets                          68,326
Inventories                          15,500
Short-term  assets                    2,955
86,781
Liabilities:  Grant and subsidy received   72,632
Short-term  debts              15,529
86,781
3. Income Statement (Tentative)
Actual                      Forecast
10-1-80 to 04-30-81         10-1-81 to 09-30-81
Income                 (CFAF m.)      %           (CFAF m.)       %
Sales                   52.1       69%           133.9         86%
Grants & subsidies      23.4       31%            21.3         14%
Total Income               75.5     100%           155.2        100%
Expenditures
Raw materials           44.2       59%            61.1         39%
Personnel                 8.4      11%            56.1         37%
Others                    8.2      11%            38.0         24%
Surplus                 14.7       19%             -            -
75.5     100%           155.2        100%



52-                             Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
Fiscal Year                                                Cumulative
1983
1st quarter                   100                           100
2nd quarter                   400                           500
3rd quarter                   600                          1100
4th quarter                  1000                          2100
1984
1st quarter                   800                          2900
2nd quarter                  1200                          4100
3rd quarter                  1000                         5100
4th quarter                  1300                          6400
1985
1st quarter                   900                          7300
2nd quarter                  1200                         8500
3rd quarter                  1200                         9700
4th quarter                   800                        10500
1986
lst quarter                  1000                        11500
2nd quarter                  1000                        12500
3rd quarter                  1000                        13500
4th quarter                   800                        14300



_ 53 -                          Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
(US$ '000)
Fiscal Year                                              Cumulative
1987
1st quarter                  800                        15100
2nd quarter                  600                        15700
3rd quarter                  200                        15900
4th quarter                  100                        16000



_ 54                               Annex 8
NIGER
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
I. COUNTRY GENERAL
- Plan Quinquennal de Developpement Economique et Social, 1979-1983
- Annuaire Statistique 1978-79
- Niger, Le Pays et son Marche. Marches Nouveaux, April 1979
- Programme Indicatif pour le Developpement du Niger, 1981-90
- Niger 1980, Marches Tropicaux et Mediterraneens, June 1, 1978
- BCEAO, Bulletins Statistiques
- Memorandum Economique, IBRD, May 1979
- BIT: Dynamique de l'Emploi dans son Systame Sahelien, le Niger,
1980
II. SECTOR STUDIES
- Paul Saada: Impact de la Politique Industrielle sur les Secteurs
des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises, IBRD, 1979
- Paul Saada: Les Petites et Moyennes Entreprises du Secteur Batiment
et Travaux Publics, IBRD, June 1981
- The Investment Code
III. BDRN
_ Audited Accounts and Annual Reports 1975-1980
IV. OPEN
- Annual Reports and Accounts 1979-1980
- Procas Verbaux des Conseils D'Administration
- Manuel d'Organisation des Services et Taches
V. CMAN
- Rapport d'Activite 1979-1980
- Objectifs et Moyens CMAN, 1981 and 1982
- Programme d'Investissement, 1981-1982
- Recapitulatif des Objectifs CMAN, Juillet 1981



International Meridian
0                                  ~~~~~~~~~40                                                                                       12                                                16'
REPUBLIC OF NIGER.                                               L I B Y A
_____ Roods                                                                               ADMINISTRATIVE::-''::
-     -   Department boundaries
-22°       ...................... District boundaries
*       National capitol                                                                                                                                                               22_
*        Department seat                                                                                                                                                                22:
*       District seat
o        Adminstrative center
o 100                 200         300
Kilo.eters
jO 510           100       150     200               .-.
M iles                   r                                 .s
-1 8 °  *                                A rli.  l                                                           B
[   M   A  L     I              | =  ;t   0        0'%      E  9   _r,            >                            .    = .
M    A ~~~~~               >'  >iji\\;~~~~~~~~~~~j;. ~ ~~~A gcez__
0 llela z0           I Do/      . o
B / onk   .Boni-Bon                            _N'Gour
40      Tro      Toseyo Ou   abIIan           / aiu;4 ==  
/v *   %qdoc,...%....
0Abo(o                   e   ..  .........
o \  s               1\            l~~~~~            ~        ~~~~~~ - Kel,v   $  - - _  -- E t= =            _=_   __                  )           C     H      A      D
Ba nk,lort; .  linS-N-Il° ;    DakOn  = -0--    __2  
-14°4c_;era           be'yOuallar .to;'l(tbala     --1     m--;~-                                                                                           N'Guicum,
UPPER                              *                                                                                                                                                                14
VOLTA 
/BENIN                                                                                        , a.                                                                                16



