w ICJ       'CREDIT NUMBER 1225 NIR
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
Date         /     K,1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1225 NIR
PROJEC AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    -    k-6     a 2 C)       , 1982, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and the BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE
DU NIGER (hereinafter called BDRN), a company established and
operating under the laws of the Republic of Niger (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower, for relending, in part, to
BDRN, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that BDRN agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS BDRN, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of BDRN
Section 2.01. BDRN shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement,
and conduct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial


﻿-2-
and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and in accordance with its Statutes,
By-laws, and the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (.a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, BDRN shall present
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for autho-
rization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) (i) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval,
BDRN shall furnish to the Association an application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be
financed thereunder (including a description of the expendi-
tures for such Investment Project proposed to be financed by
BDRN and an appraisal of the Investment Project) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan, or of repayment to the
Borrower of the amount to be used for the   Investment, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request; and
(ii) such appraisals will include the amount invested per job
created and a calculation of the internal financial rate of
return and of the economic rate of return, such calculations to be
in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Each request by BDRN for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit) and the terms and conditions of such
free-limit Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor, a calculation of the internal financial rate of return
and, in the case of the first Investmer    Project in a specific
economic sector, the calculation of the economic rate of return of
such Investment Project, such calculations to be in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by
the Association of such Investment Project or of authorization by
the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account


﻿-3-
in respect of such Investment Project, and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or ap,proximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and BDRN shall otherwise
agree, BDRN shall submit applications for approval of Investment
Projects pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this
Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section on or before December 31, 1986.
Section 2.03. (a) BDRN undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on
terms whereby BDRN shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and of BDRN, including, in the case of any such
Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the
case of any such Investment: (i) the right to require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) the right to require that the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan
or Investment be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) the right of the Association and of
BDRN to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right to
require that the Investment Enterprise take out and maintain such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice and that, without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity
thereunder be payable in a currency freely usable by the Invest-
ment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) the right to
obtain all such information as the Association or BDRN shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the admini-
stration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Projects; and (vi) the right of BDRN to suspend or terminate the
right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of


﻿-4-
the Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its agreement with BDRN.
(b) BDRN shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of BDRN, (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. BDRN shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans and Investments,
Part A of the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the Sub-loans and the Investments.
Section 2.05. BDRN shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BDRN shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, or amending, abrogating
or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association and BDRN shall
otherwise agree, BDRN: (a) shall not sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in
the ordinary course of business; and (b) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to
carry on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 2.07. BDRN shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of BDRN under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries,
Section 2.08. BDRN shall not amend its By-laws except in
agreement with the Association, and shall exchange views with the
Association on any proposal to modify its Statutes.
Section 2.09. In order to assist BDRN in the carrying
out of Part A.2 of the Project, BDRN shall employ consultants and
advisers whose selection qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association
in accordance with principles and procedures described in the


﻿-5-
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BDRN shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of BDRN and shall enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. BDRN shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of BDRN and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and BDRN shall
otherwise agree, BDRN shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary
to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the
consolidated debt of BDRN and all its Subsidiaries then incurred
and outstanding would exceed four times the consolidated capital
and surplus of BDRN and all its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of
this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by BDRN or any
Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
BDRN or by a Subsidiary and excluding debt contracted by BDRN as
agent of the Borrower.


﻿-6-
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date
and to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of BDRN debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable in Niger for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of BDRN and all its Sub-
sidiaries" means the total amount of debt of BDRN and all its
Subsidiaries excluding (i) debt owed by BDRN to any Subsidiary or
by any Subsidiary to BDRN or to any other Subsidiary and (ii) debt
referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of BDRN
and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of BDRN
and of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of BDRN in any Subsidiary, or
of any such Subsidiary in BDRN or in any other Subsidiary, and
(ii) such amount of any other loan which the Association may
determine to be included in the consolidated capital and surplus
of the Borrower.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and BDRN shall
otherwise agree, BDRN shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than deposits)
having an original term exceeding one year.
Section 3.05. BDRN shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including CFA Francs) used in its bor-
rowing and lending operations.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and BDRN shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and BDRN shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of Part A of the
Project, the performance by BDRN of its obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of BDRN and other matters
relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b) BDRN shall furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit,
Part A of the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the Sub-loans and Investments and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(c) BDRN shall furnish to the Borrower all such information
in respect of Part A of the Project as the Borrower will require
for purposes of Section 3.04 (d) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
Section 4.02. BDRN shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by BDRN of
its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.03. BDRN shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect, on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BDRN thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date eighteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BDRN of this event, and upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9m
For BDRN:
Banque de Dfveloppement de la
Rfpublique du Niger
B8ite Postale 227
Niamey
Rfpublique du Niger
Telex:
5213 NI
SONIBANK
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by BDRN may be taken or executed by its
Directeur G6nfral, or by such other person or persons as the
Directeur GSn&ral shall designate in writing, and BDRN shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of
Niamey, Niger, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
President
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE
DU NIGER
Byiz                             6epresntativ
Author ized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   BDRN shall require small-scale Investment Enterprises and
Investment Enterprises which propose to carry out labour intensive
Investment Projects to finance at least 10% of each Investment
Project from sources other than Sub-loans or Investments, such
percentage to be at least 30% of each Investment Project in all
other cases.
2.   Sub-loans shall have terms between three and fifteen years,
including a grace period between one and three years.
3.   Each Sub-loan shall bear interest at an annual rate of at
least three percentage points higher than the annual interest rate
payable by BDRN to the Borrower on the funds used to finance such
Sub-loan, provided, however, that Sub-loans subject to interest
rate ceilings imposed by the Central Bank for the Western African
States shall bear interest at the highest permissible level.
4.   Each investment Enterprise shall be required to pay an annual
commitment fee of 0.50% on the unwithdrawn amount of the Sub-loan,
and an exchange risk assumption fee of 0.50% per annum on the
amount of the Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


