                                               Documento f
                                           The World Bank

                                  FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                              ReportNo: 36973-MOR




                               PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                          PROPOSEDLOAN

                             INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$l00MILLION


                                                 TO THE

                                     KINGDOMOF MOROCCO

                                                  FORA
                  NATIONALINITIATIVEFORHUMANDEVELOPMENT
                                         SUPPORTPROJECT


                                           November 14,2006




MaghrebDepartment
Middle East andNorth Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance o f their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                       (Exchange Rate Effective November 1,2006)
                                        Currency Unit= Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
                                                    MAD 8.73 =US$l
                                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                                 January 1 December 31
                                                            -

 A D S     Social Development Agency (Agence de                INDH     National Initiative for HumanDevelopment
           ddveloppement social)                                         (Initiative nationalepour le ddveloppement
                                                                         humain)
                                                               IP        Implementation
                                                               ISR       ImplementationStatus Results Report
           Community-Based Development                         MAD       Moroccan Dirham

                                                               M&E       Monitoring & Evaluation
                                                               MATE      Ministtre de 1;Imdnagement du Territoire, de
                                                               E         I'Eau et de I'Environnement
  CED      Controller o f Commitment o f Expenditure           MENA Middle East andNorthAfrica Region
  CLDH     Local Committee for Human Development               M o F     Ministry o f Finance
           (Comite local pour le ddveloppement humain)
  CPDH  II Provincial (or Prefectoral) Committee for Human MFP           Manual of Fiduciary Procedures
           Development (Comitd provincial ou prdfectoral
           pour le ddveloppement humain)
  CRDH     Reegional Committee for HumanDevelopment            MOU       Memorandum o fUnderstanding
           (Comitd regional pour le ddveloppement humain)
  D A S    Division o f Social Action (Division de 1'action    N C B     National Competitive Bidding
           sociale)
I DBM IIIIIDivisiono f Budget and Procurement                  NGO     I N o n Governmental Organization              I
  DO       Development Objective                               O&M     I herations and Maintenance                    I
  EA       Environmental Assessment                            OED       Operations EvaluationDepartment
  EAC      Local facilitation teams inrural areas (Equipe
                                                    . .        OM        Operations Manual
           d'animation communale)
  EAQ      Local facilitation teams inurban areas (Equipe      ONEP      Office national de l'eau potable
           d'animation de quartier)                   ~~




  EIB      European Investment Bank                            PBA       Program-basedApproach
  E M P    Environmental Management Plan                       PCF       Provincial Competitive Fund
  EU       European Union                                      RPF       Resettlement Policv Framework
  FIT      Fiduciary Innovation Team                           SC      I SteerineCommittee                            I
  FNAM National Federationo fMicro CreditAssociations          SRA     I Snecial Revenue Account                      I
  GDP      Gross Domestic Product                              SWAP      Sector-wide Approach
  G o M    Government o f Morocco                              TFESS     Trust Fundfor Environmentally and Socially
                                                               D         Sustainable Development
  HCP      Higher Planning Office (Haut Commissariat au        TGR       Treasury General o f the Kingdom (Trdsorerie
           Plan)                                                        gdndrale du Royaume)
  IED      Independent EvaluationDepartment (formerly          UN        UnitedNations
           OED)
  IGAT     InsDectionGeneral of Territorial Administrations    WB        World Bank
           (Inspection gdndrale de 1'administration
I IGF      territoriale)
           Inspection General o f Finance (Inspection          WBI     I World Bank Institute
I          gdndrale desfinances)
           LocalHuman DevelopmentInitiative (Initiative
  ILDH     localepour le ddveloppement humain)

                                            Vice President:      Daniela Gressani
                                         Country Director:       Theodore 0.Ahlers
                                            Sector Director      Inger Andersen
                                           Sector Manager:       Luis Constantino
                                        Task Team Leader:        Cecile Fruman

                                                MOROCCO
NATIONALINITIATIVEFORHUMANDEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT

                                                CONTENTS
                                                                                                                              Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE .................................................                                            1
1.  Country and sector issues........................................................................................            1
2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .............................................................................                 3
3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes........................................                             3
B.  PROJECTDESCRIPTION.................................................................................                          4
1.  Lending instrument .................................................................................................         4
2.  Project development objective and key indicators..................................................                           5
3.  Project components................................................................................................. 6
4.  Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design................................................                            7
5.  Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection ..................................................                          8
C.  IMPLEMENTATION.......................................................................................... 9
1.  Partnershiparrangements........................................................................................ 9
2.  Institutional andimplementationarrangements......................................................                            9
3.  Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results ....................................................                           11
4.  Sustainability.........................................................................................................
          . . .                                                                                                                 12
5.  Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects...................................................                         13
6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants...................................................................                      14
D . APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1.  Economic and financial analyses..........................................................................                   15
2.  Technical...............................................................................................................    16
3.  Fiduciary...............................................................................................................    17
4.  Social ...................................................................................................................  21
5.  Environment...........................................................................................................      22
6.  Safeguard Policies.................................................................................................         23
7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness..........................................................................                   24

ANNEXES

Annex 1: Country and Sector Background ......................................................................    25

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedbythe Bank and/or other Agencies.............35

Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring.................................................................        37

Annex 4:    DetailedProject Description.....................................................................     49
      A.                                                                                                         49
      B.    Project and Component Description .........................................................
            Achivements o f INDHfrom mid-2005 to mid-2006 ......&.........................                        68

Annex 5:    Project Costs andFinancing......................................................................      72

Annex 6:    Governance andImplementation Arrangements ......................................                      75

Annex 7:    Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements........................                              84

Annex 8:    ProcurementArrangements ......................................................................        94

Annex 9:    Economic andFinancial Analysis...........................................................            101

Annex 10:   SafeguardPolicy Issues ..........................................................................    110
      A:    Environmental Aspects Environmental ManagementPlan (EMP) .....110
                                     .
      B:    Social Aspects . Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) ......................                          116

Annex 11:   Project Preparation and Supervision.......................................................           120

Annex 12:   Documents inthe Project File.................................................................        122

Annex 13:                                                                                                        124
            Country at a Glance ................................................................................
            Statement o f Loans and Credits ..............................................................
Annex 14:                                                                                                        125

Annex 15:   Maps Morocco IBRD33450.................................................................              128

                                    MOROCCO

MA:NATIONALINITIATIVEFORHUMAN DEVELOPMENTSUPPORT PROJECT
                                      (mH)

                        PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                       MIDDLEEASTAND NORTHAFRICA

                                      MNSRE

Date: November 14, 2006                       Team Leader: Cecile Fruman
Country Director: Theodore 0.Ahlers           Sectors: Other social services (40%); General
Sector Managermirector: Inger Andersen        agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (40%);
                                              Sub-national government administration (20%)
                                              Themes: Participation and civic engagement
                                              (P); Rural services andinfrastructure (P);
                                              Ruralnon-farm income generation (P); Social
                                              safety nets (S); Decentralization(S)
Project ID: P100026                           Environmental screening category: Partial
                                              Assessment
LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan

                                 Project FinancingData
[XI Loan    [ 3 Credit  [ ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:




                  Source                      Local             Foreign             Total
BORROWER                                       900.00               0.00            900.00
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR                          100.00               0.00            100.00
RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT
Financing Gap                                 -100.00            100.00                 0.00
Total:                                         900.00            100.00           1,000.00

Borrower:
MinistryofFinanceandPrivatization
Rabat, Morocco

Responsible Agency:
Ministry of Interior
Rabat, Morocco
Tel: 1212 37 76 16 90/ adades@interieur.gov.ma

                                            - 2 -




Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PAD A.3                                                                          [           No

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                          [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approvedby Bankmanagement?                                           [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref: PAD C.5
   .,                                                                                [XlYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref: PAD D.7                                                                         [XIYes [ ] N o


Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The project will assist the Government inimproving inclusiveness, accountability and
transparency o f decisionmakingandimplementation processes'at the local level inorder to
enhance use o f social and economic infrastructure and services by poor and vulnerable groups.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
Components 1and 2 (Alleviate Poverty inRural Areas and inUrban Areas) target the poorest
rural communes and urban neighborhoods. Through a participatory process, communities
prioritize andplanthe activities that they wish to finance with INDHfunding: social
infrastructure and services; income generating activities; cultural and sports activities; and sub-
projects to build capacity and strengthenlocal governance.

Component 3 (Alleviate Extreme Vulnerability) i s designed to improve access bypeople living
inextreme vulnerabilityto achoice ofquality social services, with aspecial focus onimproving
opportunities for social and economic inclusion.

Component 4 (Mainstreaming INDHGovernance Mechanisms and Strengthening o f Institutional
Capacity) funds sub-projects at the provincial level as well as activities that are key to the
success o f the program: capacity building at all levels o f stakeholders, management information
and Monitoringand Evaluation (M&E) systems; partnerships development; and
communications.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
The two safeguards policies that apply to the project are Environmental Assessment Safeguards
Policy (OP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12).

                                             - 3 -


Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref: PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
None
Loadcredit effectiveness:
None
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
The Borrower will, no later thanMarch 31o f each year duringthe implementation o fthe Project,
submitto the Bank anAnnual Work Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, settingforth, inter alia, work
programs, budgets, the annual allocation, the procurement plan, the outcome and intermediate
outcome indicators andthe disbursement indicators agreed between the Bank and the Borrower
for the following Fiscal Year.

The Borrower will, no later thanMarch 31 o f each year untilcompletion o fthe project (and
commencingon March 31,2007), submit to the Bank, for its review and assessment, an Annual
Report, satisfactory to the Bank : (1) describing progress achieved inthe implementation o fthe
Annual Work Planapproved for the Fiscal Year preceding the date o f said Report, taking into
account the intermediate outcome indicators, and evidencing compliance by the Borrower with
the disbursement indicators; (2) covering the technical, financial, accounting andprocurement
aspects o f the Project, including environmental and social aspects inaccordance with the
procedures set forth inthe EMP andthe RPF, and including the financial reports for the Fiscal
Yearprecedingthe date o f said Report; (3) confirming that the implementationo fthe Project
complies with the EMP and the RPF, providing results on the use o fthe environmental
assessmentprocedures included inthe EMP andthe RPF, as the case may be, and including,
where applicable, a copy o f the relevant environmental assessment study, land acquisitionplan
and land tenure data sheet for the proposed site(s); and (4) confirming that the sub-projects have
been selected within the Program and inaccordance with the participatory process described in
the Operations Manuals.

Throughout the duration o fthe Project, the Borrower shall ensure that no land expropriation i s
required for purposes o f the works and construction activities to be carried out under the Project.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all works and construction activities under the Project shall
take place on landowned by the Borrower andno resettlement o f local population shall take
place; and (b) said activities shall be consistent with the Bank's environmental and social
policies, the EMP and the RPF. Inthe event that works and construction activities under the
Project do not take place on landowned by the Borrower, the Borrower shall ensure that said
works and activities comply with the provisions o f the Bank's environmental and social policies,
the EMP and the RPF.

The Borrower shall, throughout the duration o f the Project: (a) ensure that the Communication
Action Plan and the Action Plan for Capacity Development are implementedin a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, inaccordance with the actions and calendar therein set forth; and (b) on
an annual basis, submit to the Bank for its review and approval, an update o f said Plans.

The Government will provide a mid-term progress report around September 30,2008 and a
contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) around March 31,2011.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

1.      Morocco is saddled with high levels of poverty, glaring income inequality and
low human development indicators relative to other countries in the region. Despite
great strides over the last decade with regard to expanding access to basic education and
narrowing gender andrurayurban gaps, Morocco still suffers the historical legacy o f little
attention to social issues. At present, about 15 percent o f the population is considered
poor and an additional 25 percent as economically vulnerable. Roughly two thirds o f the
poor live in rural areas, though the share in urban areas i s rising. Moreover, there are
great differences not only between urban and rural areas but within each. Indeed, two
communes can exist side by side with very different poverty levels. Morocco's extremely
low ranking on the 2005 United Nations Development Program (UNDP) Human
Development Index (124thposition out o f 177 countries) came as a wake-up call to many
inthe country.

2.      Poverty is pronounced in both rural and urban areas, with different
characteristics. Rural areas suffer from major gaps interms ofbasic social and economic
infrastructure, low social indicators, limited income and high dependency on erratic
rainfalls. More than one out o f every five Moroccans in rural areas lives below the
threshold o f US$l/day and most o f the 2 million children who are not in school and the
40 percent o f the population who are illiterate live in rural areas. Urban areas are faced
with social exclusion characterized by high levels o f unemployment and limited
economic opportunities, squalid living conditions in slum areas, and poor access to basic
services. A total o f 1.2 million citizens live in urban squatter settlements or slums, out o f
which a third alone inthe Greater Casablanca area. Almost 90 percent o f unemployment
i s urban. This poses a challenge to social stability and provides fertile ground for
extremism, as demonstrated by the Casablanca bombings inMay 2003. At least 200,000
Moroccans live inextremely vulnerable conditions, i.e. with little or no material or social
support. This situation mainly concerns women living in difficult circumstances,
homeless children, elderly people, and people living with disabilities, mostly residing in
urban areas. The needs o f such groups are not currently addressed by existing programs,
andwhenthey are, services are woefully inadequate.

3.      Government's approach to dealing with poverty and social exclusion has
tended to be centrally-driven, with little room for participation, weak coordination
among line ministries, and inadequate targeting.             Although the Government o f
Morocco (GoM) dedicates 50 percent o f public expenditures to social sectors, results
    .
have beenbelow expectations due to the following factors:

        Government interventions have tended to adopt a top-down approach.
        Consultations with communities to determine their priorities and reflect these in
        local planninghave been infrequent. This centralized approach has created a slow
        pace o f implementing development projects and caused many logistical problems
        which decrease the effectiveness o f project impact. However, in the past 5 to 10

                                            - 2 -


       years, civil society organizations and public programs such as the Social
       Development Agency which was established in 1999 have demonstrated that it is
       possible to deliver social services in a more relevant and cost effective manner by
       supporting the establishment o f a participatory demand-driven mechanism inpoor
       communities. As a result, government officials have come to see the value o f
    .  demand-driven community-based approaches for delivering social services.

       Most government programs are single-sector interventions that fail to adopt a
       comprehensive and integrated look at poverty issues in rural and urban slum
       areas. This is mainly caused by institutional and coordination problems across
       sectors. Rural development projects which have tried to introduce participatory
       planninghave not reached the expected outcomes because financing mechanisms
       have continued to be centrally controlled and incentives to encourage local
    .  integration among sectors have been weak.

       The level o f autonomy o f local decision-makers is limited. Although Morocco has
       instituted a decentralization process since the 1960s, the level o f autonomy o f
       local decision-makers has so far been constrained by extensive central oversight
       and the legal obligation for pre-approvals for nearly every local financial,
       investment, borrowing and budgetary decision. Attempts at empowering local
       officials have been hampered by misallocations of responsibilities (planning,
       operations and investment) among the different tiers o f government and
       considerable variations in capacity at the various levels o f sub-national
    .  governments.

       Poverty reduction programs have tended to be poorly targeted. regionally and bv
       social  DOUPS.   The Morocco Poverty Report o f 2004 came to the striking
       conclusion that there have been few signs o f pro-poor targeting o f funding
       allocations o f social programs at the provincial level. In addition, in the absence
       o f disaggregated poverty data at the commune level, social programs could not be
       targeted below the provincial level. Yet, the report notes that there i s a remarkably
       high degree o f inequality among communes and that there is inequality within
       communes. The poverty report provides the analytical tools for a much finer
       geographic targeting.

4.     In recent years, there has been growing attention to reducing poverty and
vulnerability as manifested by the King's announcement on M a y 18, 2005 of the
National Human Development Initiative (INDH). This poverty reduction program
targets over 250 urban neighborhoods and 400 rural communes among the poorest and
most excluded communities with multi-sectoral public and revenue-generating
investments and also has a component focusing on the most vulnerable populations. It
was announcedjust as an in-depth review o f humandevelopment in Morocco over its 50
years o f independence was completed.       This review pointed to the need for forceful
interventions to close the social gaps inthe national fabric. The INDHprogram was also
developed taking into account the outcomes o f the 2004 national census o fpopulation.

                                           - 5 -


5.     INDHis ahighlyvisibleprogram,promotedbythe King, spearheadedbythe
PrimeMinister,andimplementedby the MinistryofInterior,with support from three
other key ministries (Social Development,           Rural Development and Finance).
Implementation started in2005 with a first set o f sub-projects inall provinces. Following
the selection o f the approximately 650 targeted communities in M a y 2006, the selection
and funding o f sub-projects in these communities has been progressing steadily.
Ownership by central, regional and provincial governments is high, but the political
aspects o f the program should not be overlooked as Morocco prepares for national
elections in2007.

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

6.     The Government has selected the World Bank as its key partner for this
program. Even before GoM requested financial assistance from the Bank in February
2006, it called upon the Bank to provide technical support for the design and
implementation o f the INDH program starting in September 2005. G o M values Bank
advice and recognizes that much of the analytical work that the Bank has produced or
helped produce has contributed greatly to the design o f this program (in particular the
Bank's support to the Higher Planning Office for the production o f poverty maps which
enabled the Government to target the poorest rural communes and, in part, to select the
urbanneighborhoods).

7.      The Bank is uniquely poised to respond. First, the Bank has substantial
experience with community-driven development projects and has shared with the GoM
experience and good practices from other countries with similar development challenges
on a wide range of topics. Second, the Bank has demonstrated its ability to quickly
mobilize a multi-sectoral team which brings a good understandingo f the challenges in
Morocco as well as considerable knowledge of practices in other countries. Members of
the team also work on programs closely related to INDH: "Cities without slums", Social
Development Agency (social fund), integrated rural development, decentralization,
education, governance, etc. Finally, the Bank has contributed to strengtheningthe design
o fthe program components through its analytical contribution.

8.     Bank support for increasing access to basic services by the poor and the
marginalizedis clearly spelled out in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The
INDHprogram is one of the main lendingvehicles to support CAS outcome 2.2: "poor
andvulnerablepopulation living inrural, peri-urban and urbanareas has improved access
to basic services, social programs, and economic opportunities". It also contributes to the
cross-cutting objective o f the CAS which i s to improve governance as transparency;
accountability and inclusiveness are the principles on which INDHi s based.

3. Higher level objectivesto which the projectcontributes

9.     This operation supports the Government's efforts to reducepoverty in rural
areas and social exclusionand vulnerability in urban areas. INDH has become the
Government's primary program for poverty reduction. It i s not designed to substitute for

                                             - 4 -


sectoral programs or other mechanisms that target poverty and social exclusion (Social
Development Agency, Hassan I1 Fund, Mohamed V Foundation, National Welfare
Agency (Entraide nationale)), but to provide a coordination mechanism by which key
services are delivered to the targeted areas. INDH i s also intended to create a new
"culture" which favors participation, inclusiveness, gender empowerment and equality,
youth rights, and human development.           As such, INDH has the potential to foster
achievement o f the MillenniumDevelopment Goals. The program will also integrate the
principles o f sustainable development into country policies and programs.

10.     INDH also supports GoM's efforts to promote deconcentrationand better
planning of development interventions and to improve local governance. The
program i s designed to reinforce the role o f local authorities       -  officials from line
ministries and elected officials - and to give voice to civil society for betterplanning and
implementation o f development interventions.       All o f the program's decision making
bodies at the local, provincial and regional level are composed o f an equal share o f
government officials, elected officials and representatives from civil society. The local
committees are chaired by the elected mayor or another elected official designated by the
community, a break-through as communal affairs have until now been managed by
centrally appointed government officials. They oversee the process o f strategic planning
for local development that includespriority activities to be financed with INDHresources
and activities to be eventually financed by other sources (line ministries in particular).
This participatoryplanningprocess will lead to the alignment o f sectoral interventions by
line ministriesand other development interventions with the priority needs o f the targeted
communities.

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

11.     A Program-basedApproach (PBA) is consideredbecause of: (i) scope o f      the
the program and its long-term objectives which require a comprehensive, programmatic
approach; (ii)  the opportunity that it offers the Bank to contribute to the overall design o f
the program and to ensure that key principles o f community driven programs
(participation, inclusion, transparency and accountability) are being implemented in all
components; (iii)  the fact that GoM wishes to attract other donor funding and that a PBA
allows for a concerted approach among donors, including pooling o f funds; and (iv) the
fact that the Bank has experience with Sector-Wide Approaches (SWAPS), similar to
PBAs, in Morocco (two to date: the Basic Education Reform Support Program, January
2005 and the Second Rural Roads Project, April 2006) which allow for greater use o f
country systems and procedures and more harmonized implementation mechanisms. A
Program-based Approach allows for funds secured by GoM for INDHto be pooled in a
single financing mechanism (INDHspecial revenue account).

12.     The funding for INDH is of MAD 10 billion, equivalent to US$1.2 billion,
over 5 years, 2006-2010. Expected sources o f funding are 60 percent Central
government, 20 percent local governments and 20 percent grants from international

                                                            - 5 -


donors. For the implementationperiod, contributions from central and local governments
have been secured. The World Bank proposed loan o f US$lOO million over 4 years,
2007-2010, will contribute to the Central government's funding share.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjective and key indicators

13.        The project will assist the Government inimproving inclusiveness, accountability
and transparency o f decision making and implementation processes at the local level in
order to enhance use o f social and economic infrastructure and services by poor and
vulnerable groups.

      .
14.        Keyprojectdevelopmentindicatorsare:

           Percentage of sub-projects identified by target communities and put forth to line
           ministries for consideration that is indeed funded (measures responsiveness o f line
      .    ministries to priorities identified by target communities).

           Percentage o fhouseholds, women and youthreportingincreased access anduse of
      .    basic infrastructure after sub-project implementation.

           Percentage o f households, women and youth reporting increased access and use o f
      .    socio-economic services after sub-project implementation.

           Number o f sub-projects in which women are the main beneficiaries' reache 50
           percent o f total o f INDHsub-projects (excluding infrastructure projects) by 2010.

15.        Key intermediate outcomes indicators include (but are not limited to - see
Annex 3):

           Percentage o f households, women and youth who report that they participated in
      .    all or part o fthe participatory process.

           CLDH, CPDH and CRDH make public: (i)decisions on approved and rejected
           sub-projects; (ii)      implementation and financial reports on sub-projects (annually);
           (iii)outcome ofprocurementbids (including publicationofresults on INDH
      .    website for all bids superior to MAD2 million).

           Beneficiary contributions to INDHprojects are never below 10 percent o f INDH
           grant throughout the project period.




' Sub-projects in  which women are main beneficiaries are measured as: 1) income generating activities for which
women constitute at least 50 percent o f the members o f the group implementing the activity and 2) other types o f
activities (social and cultural, capacity development, etc.) for which women constitute at least 50 percent o f all
beneficiaries o f the activity.

                                             - 6 -



3. Projectcomponents

16.     There are four project components, consistent with the original design o f the
program put forth by G o M inAugust 2005.

17.     Component One: Alleviate Poverty in Rural Areas ("the rural component'?
[estimated cost: US$300 million].          The rural component targets the 348 poorest
communes with poverty levels above 30 percent based on the recent updatedpoverty map
and an additional 54 communes that have poverty levels between 22 and 30 percent
combined with low social indicators (selected by the provincial INDHcommittees). A
small number o f additional communes could be included in the program during
implementation. Each targeted commune is allocated the equivalent of US$600,000 for
the periodofthe program. The component finances activities that increase access to basic
social services, enhance the economic infrastructure, support income-generation, promote
social, cultural and sports activities and strengthen local governance and capacity. These
activities are to be identified and prioritized through a participatory planningprocess that
includes all social groups at the commune level and relies on hlltransparency in the
decision making process.

18.     Component Two: Alleviate Social Exclusion in Urban Areas ("the urban
component'? [estimated cost: US$300million]. The urban component o f INDH targets
250 urban neighborhoodsin25 cities. A small number o f additional neighborhoods could
be included in the program during implementation. Each targeted neighborhood is
allocated the equivalent of US$900,000 for the period o f the program. The component
finances the same types of activities as the rural component and also relies on a
participatory process. The general features that characterize the targeted neighborhoods
are high levels o f unemployment,poor housing conditions and poor access to basic social
services. The selection o f a larger number o f cities reflects the Government's desire to
extend the INDH consultative and participatory approach to as many urban centers as
possible, irrespective o f the concentration o f absolute urbanpoverty and social exclusion.
The selection o f the neighborhoods within these cities targets the inequalities and
differentials o f access to basic services and social support systems at the local - rather
thanat the national-level.

19.     Component Three: Alleviate Extreme Vulnerability ("the                 vulnerability
component'y [estimated cost: US$300million]. This component aims to improve access
by people living in extreme vulnerability to a choice of quality social services, with a
special focus on improving opportunities for social and economic inclusion. It supports
financing o f social services implementedby government agencies or Non Governmental
Organizations (NGOs), institution building activities for these agencies and NGOs, and
construction and equipment o f centers delivering social services.

20.     Component Four: Mainstreaming INDH Governance Mechanisms and
Strengthening of Institutional Capacity ("the cross-cutting component'7 [estimated
cost: US$300 million].         The largest share o f this component is the Provincial

                                            - 7 -


Competitive Fund (PCF) [estimated cost: US$275 million]. This Fund i s intended to
finance development projects on the basis o f a call for proposals at the level o f provinces
and prefectures. As in components 1 and 2, this find finances activities that increase
access to basic social services, enhance the economic infrastructure, support income-
generation, promote social, cultural and sports activities and strengthen local governance
and capacity. The objective of this find is to enable provincial governments to filly
participate in the INDH program and to implement the INDH governance mechanisms
andprocesses throughout the country.

21.     Component 4 also focuses on activities that are central to the success o f INDH:
capacity buildingat all levels o f stakeholders, including knowledge sharing; management
information and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems (including impact
evaluation); partnerships development; and communications. As part o f partnerships
development, a Memorandum o f Understanding (MOU) o f an amount o f US$25million
has been signed with the National Federationo f Micro Credit Associations to expandthe
supplyo fmicro credit services inINDHintervention areas.

22.     The INDH program activities will be implementedin the following regions:
Souss-Mass-Draa, Gharb-Charda-Beni Hassan, Chaouia-Ourdigha, Marrakech-Tensift-El
Haouz, Oriental, Greater Casablanca, Rabat-Sale-Zemmour-Zaer, Doukkala-Abda,
Tadla-Azilal, Meknes-Tafilalt, Fes-Boulmane, Taza-A1 Hoceima-Taounate, Tanger-
Tetouan and inthe provinces o f Guelmim, Assa-Zag, Tantan andTata.

4. Lessons learnedand reflectedin the projectdesign

23.     The INDH design takes into account lessons learned from the recent
analytical work and lending activities implemented conducted by the Bank in
Morocco. The Poverty Report of 2004 emphasized the need and demonstrated the means
to target social expenditures to the poorer communities. The two active integrated rural
development projects currently supported by the Bank, the Lakhdar Watershed
Management Pilot Project (1999-2003), and the Bank-led review o f the implementation
o f the 2020 Rural Development Strategy have helped refine the design o f participatory
processes and institutional and finding mechanisms for community driven development
inrural areas. TheBank's ongoingHousing Sector Development Policy Loanhas yielded
important lessons on the need for social intermediation and for improved coordination
among government actors in upgrading slum areas. Other lessons have been drawn from
the Bank's experience in support o f the Social Development Agency; the Social
Priorities Program which was implemented from 1996 to 2003 in 14 target provinces; the
decentralization agenda; and reforms inhealth and education sectors and in governance.
In addition, many lessons have been learned from the implementation of INDHduring
2005 and 2006 (Annex 4.B.)

24.     The INDHdesign also benefitedfrom lessons of experiencefrom Community
Driven-Development(CDD) projects elsewhere (inparticular Brazil, India, Indonesia,
and Egypt). These include lessons on how to improve participation o fwomen, youth and
vulnerable groups; give voice to the most vulnerable so that services are better suited to

                                            - 8 -


their needs; ensure adequate feedback and grievance mechanisms; mitigate risks o f elite
capture; and design a robust M&E system. Three key lessons were drawn from the
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) report o f 2005 on "The Effectiveness
o f World Bank Support for Community-Based and -Driven Development": (i)          the need
to invest heavily in developing local capacity; (ii)the need for government commitment
to ensure that the poorest are being reached and that women and youth are participating
in a substantive way; and (iii)the need to undertake selective, rigorous impact
assessments to ensure learning. While these lessons have been incorporated inthe design
o f INDH and are reflected in the operations manuals, they will need to be consistently
applied duringproject implementation.

5. Alternativesconsideredand reasonsfor rejection

25.    A Program-basedApproachwas selected after consultationswithin the Bank
and with the client. The option o f designing a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) which
would fund only some components o f the program was considered sub-optimal since it
would have missed the opportunity o f fully accompanying the government in its
commitment to deliver services with a new business model based on improved
participation and local governance. Inaddition, the government has explicitly stated that
it expects the Bank's technical support on all components andthat the Bank will align its
procedures with the government's to the extent feasible in order to reduce transaction
costs.  The option o f a Development Policy Loan was also considered but rejected
because the reform content o f this program is not sufficiently defined to justify a policy
loan. The option of supporting INDHthrough existing World Bank projects such as the
integrated rural development projects or the social fund was also ruled out as none o f
these projects has the size or scope required or could have been restructured in a
meaningful way.

26.     In terms of design of the program,several alternativeoptions were explored
with the clientbut rejected. The Bank originally suggested to GoMto start on a smaller
scale, pilot the approach in a few selected regions or provinces, or simplify the design by
reducing the number o f components. This solution was deemed politically unacceptable
on account o f the high expectations generated by this program in all provinces and under
all components. The Bank also worked closely with G o M to try to improve the urban
targeting, recognizing political      constraints and data limitations.       The Bank's
recommendation was to limit the number o f criteria for the selection o f neighborhoods
and to select these neighborhoods where, at the national scale, measures of social
exclusion and urban poverty were highest in absolute terms. The government preferred
to leave the process open, relying on knowledge that provincial committees have o f local
circumstances and to include a much greater number of provinces and cities, so as to
generalize the INDHapproach. This has resulted inthe selection o f urban neighborhoods
where social exclusion is significant and relevant at the local level, rather than at the
national one.

27.     However, GoM did take into account the Bank's recommendations for
several components. For instance, the vulnerability component as originally designed

                                           - 9 -


did not include a participatory process and focused essentially on renovating existing
support centers or building new ones, with little attention to programs that favor social
and economic inclusion. The redesign proposed by the Bank was accepted in full. The
Bank's recommendations to put inplace dedicated teams o f facilitators ineach commune
and neighborhood, to facilitate knowledge sharing among key actors, and to strengthen
development communications were also accepted infull.

28.     GoM couldhave consideredan altogetherdifferent designwhich reliedmore
on improvingexisting sectoralprograms. Although such a design could have helped
solve some inefficiencies, it would not have had an impact in terms of: (i)empowering
local populations to voice their own choices and influence decisions or (ii)  generating
better local planning, coordination and funding mechanisms.         The effect on local
governance would thus have been limited.

C.    IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

29.     Several aid agencies have committed to financing INDH, with several more
consideringthe feasibility. So far, the European Commission and the governments o f
Spain, Germany, Japan and China have made grant commitments for a total o f
approximately US$95 million. The Millennium Challenge Corporation has included
support to INDHin its Investment Memorandum, while the African Development Bank,
UNagencies andseveral other bilateral agencies are launching feasibility studies. At the
request of GoM, the World Bank has been holding regular meetings with the donor
community in Morocco in order to share its assessment o f the program design and
implementation. GoM has encouraged all donors to harmonize their approaches to the
extent possible and to align with the government's procedures.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Institutionalarrangements

30.     Key strategic directions for the INDH program are set by the INDH Inter-
MinisterialStrategic Committeewhich is chaired by the PrimeMinister and comprises
all Ministers and Directors of public agencies. The Strategic Committee establishes the
strategic framework and ensures a well coordinated approach amongst line ministries
towards achieving the goals o fthe INDHprogram. A SteeringCommitteechairedby the
Prime Minister and composed o f Ministers in charge o f Interior, Finance, Social
Development, and the INDH National Coordinator sets the budgetary allocations,
oversees progress in the overall implementation o f the program and in terms o f
institutional communication, and reports to the Strategic Committee.

31.     The Ministry of Interior, through its INDH CoordinationUnit, is ultimately
accountable for meetingthe objectives of INDH. The INDHUnit provides technical
support to the regional, provincial and local committees and other stakeholders that

                                           - 10-


participate in the program, in particular in terms o f implementation o f the guidelines
included in the operations manuals.       It is also responsible for updating operations
manuals; implementing the capacity development and communications strategies, and
facilitating knowledge sharing and peer learning among key actors. The INDH Unit
oversees execution o fprocurement and financial management, and implementation o f the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF).
It centralizes all technical and financial data related to the program as a whole and
prepares consolidated reports on the monitoring o fprogram implementation.

32.      Implementation of the program is the responsibilityof local, provincial and
regional-levelcommittees,composed o f an equal share o f government officials, elected
officials and representatives from civil society. The local andprovincial-level committees
oversee the process o f strategic planning for local development that includes priority
activities to be financed with INDH resources and activities to be financed by other
sources (line ministries in particular). In the case o f the vulnerability component, the
regional-level committees are in charge o f preparing a regional vulnerability plan based
on inputsreceivedby the provincial-level committees.

33.      Institutional and technical support is to be provided from various line
ministries and government agencies. For instance, the Social Development Agency,
which has gathered considerable experience in the management o f community-driven
development programs, helps local communities in identifyingneeds and establishing a
local development plan through a participatory diagnostics and planning process, and
contributes to the capacity buildingand monitoring and evaluation efforts (components 1
and 2). The National Welfare Agency (Entraide Nationale) has taken on a leadingrole in
the preparation o f the regional vulnerability maps and the corresponding action plans
(component 3).

Implementationarrangements

34.      Operations Manuals (OM) have been prepared for the rural, urban and
vulnerability components,for the ProvincialCompetitiveFund,and, specifically,for
income-generatingactivities. The key elements described in the operations manuals
are: (i)the institutional arrangements, roles and responsibilities o f all stakeholders,
mechanisms to ensure well-functioning and accountable local committees and local
facilitation teams, and key decision and feedback points; (ii) the approach for conducting
a participatory and inclusive planningprocess and ensuringthat sectoral ministries align
with the local development plans; (iii)clear eligibility and selection criteria; (iv)
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms and tools for environmental and social screening
o f sub-projects; and (v) adequate grievance mechanisms. The OMSwere disseminated to
all key actors in August and September 2006 and a large-scale training program on the
manuals will be launched by November 2006. Simplified versions in Arabic will be
available inearly 2007

35.      In addition, a Manual of Fiduciary Procedures (MFP) describes all
procedures and requirements for procurement and financial management. The

                                             - 11-

Bankwill rely on the Borrower's own implementation systems andprocedures except for
certain types o f expenditures (e.g., procurements above certain thresholds) and for
environmental and social safeguards (see Annexes 7, 8 and 10). The content o f the OMS
and the MFP will be regularly revised as lessons from experience are incorporated,
institutional capacity improves, andprogram implementation progresses.

36.     The implementationperiodfor the Bankproject(January 1,2007 to January
30,2011) hasbeen determinedin order to support the first phase of implementation
of INDH (2006-2010). The government intends to pursue INDHbeyond this period, but
future Bank support to the program would have to be determined at a later stage. A mid-
term review inthe last quarter o f 2008 will assess progress made duringthe first years o f
the program.

3. Monitoringand evaluationof outcomeshesults

37.      GoM understandsthe value of demonstratingthe results achieved by INDH
in terms of outputs and outcomes. As such, a results-based framework has been
developed and the intermediate outcome indicators will be tracked on an annual basis.
Manyofthe outcomes that will be tracked involve measuring improved access and usage
o f social services in the targeted communities and whether the participatory process is
taking hold, is sufficiently inclusive and transparent, and is leading to improved local
governance of local service delivery.

38.      The Ministry of Interior is responsiblefor monitoringthe implementationof
INDH.Quantitative andfinancial data onproject implementation as well as keyoutcome
indicators are collected by committees at the commune and neighborhood level and
validated and consolidated by the heads o f Divisions o f Social Action (DAS) at the
provincial level.    All data is inputted into a robust and well-designed web-based
information system. Inaddition, regular surveys will be carried out to assess the degree of
participation o f beneficiaries, satisfaction with the participatory process, and use o f sub-
projects and services funded through INDH. The INDH Unit will consolidate the
information received from the DAS, synthesize findings, and submit an annual progress
report to the Bank. The specific reporting formats for monitoring o f results at local,
provincial and regional levels will be detailed inthe OMS.

39.      A NationalObservatoryof HumanDevelopmentwas establishedin July 2006
and will become operational in early 2007. It is an autonomous institution which
reports directly to the Prime Minister. Its key functions are to: (i)  carry out general and
comparative studies and surveys on issues related to human development, in particular
poverty, vulnerability and social exclusion; (ii)  monitor and evaluate the implementation
and impact o f INDH, in particular by conducting a rigorous impact evaluation; and (iii)
document good practices in terms o f institutional innovations and financing o f local
development plans by line ministries. The Observatory will publish an annual evaluation
report.

                                           - 12-


4. Sustainability

40.     Improved capacity of local communitiesto participatein and influencelocal
planning is an element that should contribute to sustaining development outcomes
and improvementsin local governance.Once communities are empoweredto influence
decisions typically made by government officials, they can make better informed
decisions for the community and generate better outcomes over the long term. As
implementation o f INDHprogresses, line ministries, local officials and communities will
learn to collaborate more effectively and this will lead to changes in the way business is
being conducted at the local level, impacting the broader local development process.

41.     The institutional arrangements proposed to implement INDH are
sustainable. One o f the strengths o f the program is that it relies on existing governance
bodies and accompanies them through an ongoing process o f decentralization and
deconcentration.    The INDH Coordination Unit in the Ministry o f Interior is not an
independent Project Management Unit, but rather the initial step towards a fully
established entity within the ministerial hierarchy with proper allocation o f human and
budgetary resources. Although the regional, provincial and local committees are new
creations, they rely on existing structures and the Ministry o f Interior provides most o f
the operating power. For the past five years, the mission o f the Ministry o f Interior has
been changing quite dramatically to a greater development function. INDHaccompanies
this shift in culture. Finally, as discussed above, financing o f the program has been
secured for 2006-2010.

42.      Another dimension of sustainability is the individual sustainability of sub-
projects financed by the INDH. International experience shows that community
contributions are effective in ensuring that communities will maintain and sustain the
facilities or activities that they choose to have financed. The Bank team has
recommended that beneficiary contributions to sub-projects should never be below 10
percent o f the INDH grant and will track progress in this respect. INDH, with other
partners such as the Social Development Agency, will support capacity buildingactivities
to ensure that local communities and NGOs are better organized to sustain the services to
be provided. Line ministries will also play a key role in constructing infrastructure and
ensuring operations and maintenance (O&M) o f these investments, inclose collaboration
with the communities.

                                                  - 13 -


5. Criticalrisks and possible controversialaspects

                                      Table 1:RiskEvaluationTable


                                                     .
Risk                                         Rating RiskMitigationMeasures

Riskof elitecaptureandpatronage              M           Ensure that the stringent criteria and processes
                                                     .
especially for the Provincial Competitive                which have been set for the PCF inthe OM are
Fundto which a large share o fthe                        enforced through internal controls and audits.
overall budget i s allocated but which is                Ensure that communication and feedback
not directly targeted to the poorest                     mechanisms are inplace to ensure that all
communities or groups. The criteria and                  stakeholders understand the procedures and their
process proposed for selecting projects                  rights inorder to guarantee transparency and to
                                                     .
funded by PCF give too muchpower to                      give citizens the means to hold government
governors. A s Morocco prepares for                      officials accountable.
elections in2007, there i s a risk that this             Establish grievance mechanisms at all levels
program could be used to favor                           (local, provincial, regional and national), which
communes or NGOs managed by                              are easily accessible and function ina fair and
                                                     .
friendly political parties or to starve the              transparent way.
opposition.
Riskof use of funds for other than the       M           Government agrees that INDHwill only fund
intendedpurpose.There is a risk that                     sub-projects which comply with INDHselection
INDHfunds couldbeusedto finance                          criteria and procedures and will ensure that all
activities that do not contribute to the                 expenditures canbe traced. These sub-projects
goals o f the program, because o f                       can support the goals o f larger projects but the
political pressures, personal interests, or              use o f INDH funds mustremain distinct and
interference by higher authorities.                      accounted for.
                                                         Bank has conducted a thorough assessment o f the
                                                         human and financial resources framework for
                                                         financial management and procurement and
                                                         provisions for capacity buildinghave been
                                                         included inthe project.
                                                         Fiduciary modules will be included inall training
                                                         programs.
                                                         All key funding decisions will be communicated
                                                         ina transparent way inorder to ensure
                                                         accountability o f decision makers.
                                                         Grievance mechanisms are being established.
Governmentinefficienciesand                  H       ....Local facilitators will be hired, trained,
behavior undermineresults. This could                    empowered and adequately compensated inall
                                                     .
manifest itself through poor coordination                INDHcommunes andneighborhoods (including
among government ministries and                          women facilitators).
duplication o f efforts; centralized and                 INDHUnitis strengthened withappropriate staff
                                                     .
bureaucratic decision-making; the                        and budget allocations inorder to provide better
superficial application o f participatory                services and oversight.
processes given the highly centralized                   The 2007 Budget L a w introduces flexibility for
system o f governance and the pressure to                line ministries to respond to community demands
demonstrate results and weak attention                   emerging from INDHlocal development plans.
to managing for results and M&E. This                    This will contribute greatly to aligning plans and
could lead to too much time and                          investments o f line ministries with community
                                                     .
resources spent o n planning or, to the                  demands and will be further strengthened during
contrary, a rushto find infrastructure                   program implementation.
projects which are highly visible but                    Leadership and change management training is

                                           - 14-

have only minimal impact. All o f this            provided to top government officials (governors)
could leadto even less trust between              and elected officials. (Process has started with
citizens and the State.                           support o fWorld Bank Institute [WBI]).
                                                  Government officials who demonstrate results
                                                  and show leadership interms o f encouraging
                                                  participation and debate are rewarded; those who
                                                  do not perform are sanctioned.
                                                  Bank provides assistancewith M&E, including
                                                  participatory M&E, community-basedpoverty
                                                  monitoring, results management; etc.
Lackof inclusionof women, youth and H         Reducingthis risk requires changingbehavior and
vulnerable groups inthe process.              social and cultural norms. It can not be seen as a
                                              short-term objective but one that mustbe tackled
                                              .
                                              over time. The following actions are beingtaken as a
                                              first step:
                                                  EnsuringINDHUnit has staffwith adequate
                                              ... skills to design programs and processeswhich
                                                  encourage greater inclusionat all levels;
                                                  Implementing awarenessraising and capacity
                                                  development activities;
                                                  Including specific indicators which assess
                                                  progress over time;
                                                  Taking corrective action as needed.
Weak capacityofNGOs and                M      .   Program includes a well-funded capacity
municipalities(in particular rural                development component which will focus on
communes)hampersimplementation                    providing project sponsors with the knowledge
                                              .
of sub-projects.                                  and skills they need to successfully carry out
                                                  INDHprojects.
                                                  OMSclarify the capacity assessmentprocedures,
                                                  eligibility criteria and standard agreement to be
                                                  signed betweenproject sponsors and governors. It
                                                  also includes an annex on financial management
                                                  and procurement obligations.

6. Loadcreditconditions and covenants

43.      EffectivenessCondition:none

44.      DisbursementCondition:No withdrawals shall be made inrespect o f payments
made for expenditures under an Annual Work Plan, unless the Bank has determined that
evidence o f the Borrower's compliance with the disbursement indicators agreed between
the Bank andthe Borrower relating to such Plan is satisfactory to the Bank.

45.      Covenants:

         The Borrower will, no later than March 31 o f each year during the
         implementation o f the Project, submit to the Bank an Annual Work Plan,
         satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth, inter alia, work programs, budgets, the
         annual allocation, the procurement plan, the outcome and intermediate outcome
         indicators and the disbursement indicators agreed between the Bank and the
         Borrower for the following Fiscal Year.

   .                                     - 1 5 -


      The Borrower will, no later than March 31 of each year until completion o f the
      project (and commencing on March 31, 2007), submit to the Bank, for its review
      and assessment, an Annual Report, satisfactory to the Bank : (1) describing
      progress achieved in the implementation o f the Annual Work Plan approved for
      the Fiscal Year preceding the date o f said Report, taking into account the
      intermediate outcome indicators, and evidencing compliance by the Borrower
      with the disbursement indicators; (2) covering the technical, financial, accounting
      and procurement aspects o f the Project, including environmental and social
      aspects in accordance with the procedures set forth inthe EMP and the RPF, and
      including the financial reports for the Fiscal Year preceding the date o f said
      Report; (3) confirming that the implementation o f the Project complies with the
      EMP and the RPF, providing results on the use of the environmental assessment
      procedures included in the EMP and the RPF, as the case may be, and including,
      where applicable, a copy o f the relevant environmental assessment study, land
      acquisition plan and land tenure data sheet for the proposed site(s); and (4)
      confirming that the sub-projects have been selected within the Program and in
   .  accordance with the participatory process described inthe Operations Manuals.

      Throughout the duration o f the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that no land
      expropriation i s required for purposes o f the works and construction activities to
      be carried out under the Project. The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all works and
      construction activities under the Project shall take place on land owned by the
      Borrower and no resettlement o f local population shall take place; and (b) said
      activities shall be consistent with the Bank's environmental and social policies,
      the EMP and the RPF. In the event that works and construction activities under
      the Project do not take place on land owned by the Borrower, the Borrower shall
      ensure that said works and activities comply with the provisions o f the Bank's
   .  environmental and social policies, the EMP and the RPF.

      The Borrower shall, throughout the duration o f the Project: (a) ensure that the
      Communication Action Plan and the Action Plan for Capacity Development are
      implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the actions
      and calendar therein set forth; and (b) on an annual basis, submit to the Bank for
   .  its review and approval, an update o f said Plans.

      The Government will provide a mid-term progress report around September 30,
      2008 and a contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) around
      March 31,2011.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses

46.   Government involvement in INDH can be economically justified on various
grounds. First, investinginaccess to basic infrastructure and social services is a way for
a country to reduce social risks and build human capital, which in turn increases social

                                             - 16-

capital, productivity, and growth. Second, even if other interventions such as revenue-
generating or capacity-building activities only cover a limited number o f beneficiaries,
their financing i s crucial as the poor are subject to liquidityconstraints created by capital
market failures, coordination problems, lack o f trust, information asymmetry and other
obstacles that make upfront investments impossible. Therefore, governments have a role
in facilitating coordination and the formation of human and social capital, which will
havepositive spillovers for the whole community.

47.     Moreover, internationalexperience suggests that, if appropriately managed,
community-based, participativeapproachesas usedin INDH can be a cost-effective
mechanism. Research has shown that these approaches can result in lower unit costs
than traditional approaches and tend to increase access to and quality o f social services,
which results, inmost cases, in greater utilization o f basic services. Comparisons o f unit
costs for various INDH-type projects under traditional line ministry schemes and under
the participatoryapproach o fthe Social Development Agency confirm these findings.

48.     Various key factors have been reviewed and optimized during project
preparation, in order to ensure maximum performance in terms of welfare gains.
These are: (i)adequate targeting o f beneficiaries; (ii)sub-project selection criteria
(embedded in the different operational manuals: value-for-money requirement or
simplified business plan requirement for income-generating activities); (iii)building
institutional capacity; and (iv) ensuring financial sustainability. It will be important to
ensure that these factors materialize as INDH i s implemented in order to be able to
demonstrate benefits ex-post. Indeed, given the demand-driven nature o f the projects
financed by INDH, and therefore the uncertainty interms o f the structure o f the portfolio
o fprojects, it has not beenpossible to perform a standard cost-benefit analysis ex-ante.

2. Technical

49.     Technical soundness and conformity with sectoral technical standards of the
sub-projects are two main aspects that will be monitored closely during project
implementation. The quality of sub-projects will be ensured by: (i)       complying with the
guidelinesinthe operations manuals, and (ii)     providing expertise by staff o f relevant line
ministries or specialized consultants to assist in appraising, designing and implementing
sub-projects. Periodic technical audits will be conducted to ensure quality o f the
investments.

50.     Communities will receive support in making sound technical decisions.
Investment cost estimates, physical contingencies, prices and estimates o f inputs and
outputs will be based on actual historical data from relevant line ministries and
govement agencies. As the implementation o f INDHprogresses and there i s greater
knowledge o f what sub-project types are most frequently demanded by the communities,
standardized designs (including engineering aspects, technical, financial and economic
feasibility, O&M, simple environmental guidelines and cost parameters) will be
produced. International experience demonstrates that these simple, practical standards
enhance sub-project quality, sustainability and cost-effectiveness.       Training programs

                                             - 1 7 -


will be offered to develop community capacity to prepare, implement, operate and
maintain sub-projects, as well as acquaint them with existing environmental regulations.

3. Fiduciary

Procurement(see annex 8)

51.     A procurement capacity assessment was conducted and covered the
institutionalframework, the procurement execution and control procedures of the
program, procurement practices and their control mechanisms, as well as the
capacity of a sample of executing agencies. Procurement will mainly consist o f sub-
projects to be carried out by project sponsors which can be NGOs, municipalities, etc.
Nevertheless, a significant part o f procurement will also be carried out by the program's
executing agencies; that is provinces, prefectures and regions, but also Prime Minister's
Office andMinistries o f Interior and o f Social Development.

52.     Based on the assessment, the procurement capacity is considered as
sufficient. However, considering that the program will bring: (i) work methods and
                                                                      new
procedures, including in the area o f procurement; and (ii)a significant additional work
load at the provincial level inview of the expected high number of small sub-projects, it
i s essential that roles, responsibilities and the flow o f work be clarified at the provincial
level. The INDHSteering Committee has committed to doing this by December 15,2006.
Inaddition, it is essential to provide training about the new measures and work methods
to all staff at the provincial level, including the controllers o f commitment and
accountants o f the Ministry o f Finance who are in charge of the control o f the
procurement andpayment processes.

53.     For sub-projects to be executed by partners, the Manual of Fiduciary
Procedures (MFP) clarifies the minimum procurement requirements and capacity
that are necessary. Accordingly, the partner's procurement obligations will also be
clearly laid out in the partnership agreement to be signed between the region or
province/prefecture and the project sponsor. Procurement o f sub-projects will be carried
out according to shopping, community participation, and, ultimately, national competitive
bidding(NCB) procedures as indicated inthe MFP.

54.     Procurement of goods not exceeding US$500,000 and works not exceeding
US$3,000,000 by executing agencies and municipalitieswill be done through NCB
provided that:


     a) The bidding document clearly explains the method o f bid evaluation procedures,
        contract award criteria and bidder qualification criteria;
    b) Technical, administrative and financial envelopes are publicly and simultaneously
        opened with the price read aloud andrecorded;
     c) Bids are evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in the bidding
        documents and quantified inmonetary terms;

                                            - 18-


    d) Contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder following the criteria referred to in
       the preceding sub-paragraph a), with the lowest evaluated responsive bid.

55.    Goods and works not exceeding US$120,000 will be procured by shopping
addressedto qualifiedand registeredfirms. This shoppingprocedurewill comply with
the N C B procedures as described above andthe following provisions:


    a) Prior to the launch o f any process, and at the beginning o f each year, a call for
        expressions o f interest is published in at least two national newspapers, one in
       French and one in Arabic according to a model attached to the Manual of
        Fiduciary Procedures. A database o f qualified firms is then established,
        maintained and made public.
    b) At the launch o f each process, at least six qualified firms in the field o f the said
        process and which have responded to the said call for expressions o f interest are
        invitedto submit abid; and
    c) The results o f the said process including: (i) description o f the contract; (ii)
                                                     the                                 the
        name o f the bidders; (iii) prices as read aloud at the bid opening session; (iv)
                                   the
        the name o f the bidder awarded with the contract; and (v) the amount of the
        awarded contract are made public and posted inthe offices o f the entity in charge
        o f the procurement process and maintainedinthe records for the needs o f audits.

56.     Goods and works not exceeding US$50,000 may be procured according to
shoppingprocedures. Goods, works and services o f an amount not exceeding US$40,000
provided by project sponsors within a partnership agreement may be procured according
to community participation in procurement methods as detailed in the MFP. Goods and
works not exceeding US$lOO,OOO may be procured by direct contracting. The usage of
agreed upon standard biddingdocuments i s required for all contracts.

57.     Selection and employment of consultants will be carried out in accordance
with the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment o f Consultants by the
World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004.              Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract may be composed entirely o f
national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines. The said short list o f national consultants may be composed o f (but not
limited to) consultants o f the "Network of Experts" established by the INDH Steering
Committee and published on the INDH website. Universities, government institutions,
and training institutions may be hired in accordance with paragraph 1.11 and NGOs may
be selected inaccordance with the paragraph 3.16 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

58.     Consultantservices estimatedto cost less than US$lOO,OOO maybe awarded by
Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications (paragraph 3.7) or by Selection o f
Individual Consultants in accordance with the provisions o f Section V o f the Consultant
Guidelines. Single Source Selection may be used in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraphs 3.10 to 3.13 o f Consultant Guidelines.

                                            - 19-

59.     Single source selection may be used up to US$300,000 for contracts with
public enterprisesfor technicalassistanceto the implementationof sub-projectsand
up to US$50,000 for all other consultants in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraphs 1.11;3.10 to 3.13 o f Consultant Guidelines.

60.     In addition to the prior review by the World Bank of all goods and works
contracts above the NCB thresholds mentioned above, the following are also subject to
prior review:
    .   All goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent or more than US$lOO,OOO
        procuredby direct contracting;
        The first three contracts for goods andthe first three contracts for works.

61.     Inaddition to the prior review of all consultantscontracts equivalent or above
US$200,000 and o f all individual consultants contracts equivalent or above US$50,000,
the following are also subject to prior review:
    ..  All consultant contracts for consultants selected by single source and estimated to
        cost the equivalent or more than US$50,000;
        The first three contracts for consultant services regardless o ftheir estimated cost.

FinancialManagement(see annex 7)

62.     A financial managementcapacity assessment was conducted during project
preparation. The coverage o fthis assessmentwas adapted to the project designwhich is
characterized by a flow o f funds from the central government through its provincial units
to the local level, and a large number o f beneficiaries at both levels. At the central,
regional and provincial level (province/prefectures), the approach consisted o f a broad
assessment o f the applicable financial management system and a capacity review o f a
sample of executing agencies. Because beneficiaries are not identified prior to project
effectiveness and are extremely numerous, these entities could not be individually
assessed. Consequently, three main issues were considered: (i) and procedures to
                                                                   criteria
ensure satisfactory financial management capacity; (ii)    adequate monitoring system; and
(iii) controlmechanism(internalcontrolsandaudits).
     ex-post

63.     In a Program-basedApproach, the financialmanagementand disbursement
arrangements strengthen the use of national procedures in the interest of
simplificationand reducedtransactions costs. This approach involves: (i)          the pooling
o f hnds without distinguishingINDHactivities by their fimding sources and (ii)      a report-
based disbursementmechanism by tranches.

        Summary offindings and risk analysis

64.     The complex institutional framework presents a risk of delay of
implementationevaluated as significant to high. The highly decentralized degree o f
execution combined with the participatory approach may introduce delays at different

                                                 - 20 -

stages o f the expenditure cycle that could slow down the program implementation. This
risk is mitigated by: (i)     specific INDH regulations introducing more flexibility in the
expenditures execution process; (ii)      capacity building activities in terms o f planning and
project management; and (iii)      a monitoring system reinforced by the creation o f a multi-
disciplinary team (Fiduciary Innovation Team) at the central level to monitor the
fiduciary implementation o fthe program.

65.     At the central and provinces/prefectures level, capacity of Ministry of
Interior and its regions and provinces/prefectures to handle the project's financial
management is deemed acceptable and presents a moderate risk. The program funds
are channeled through a special revenue account created for INDH in the state budget.
These funds follow the Moroccan general public expenditure framework assessedby the
Bank as presentingan overall low fiduciary risk2(budgetary and accounting) with needed
improvement in the execution process. Weaknesses need to be addressed at the
provinces/prefectures level through (i)       a clarification o f the responsibilities and the flow
o f information between the various divisions (accounting, technical and DAS) interms o f
INDHmanagement and(ii)           focused training sessions to specific MDHregulations.

66.      At the local level, inherent project design significantly increases the financial
management risk for the program through: (i)innovative processes and procedures
from project identification to execution, especially channel o f funds to local level; (ii)
large numbers o f project sponsors with disparities inmanagement capacities, which may
often be weak; (iii)large numbers o f sub-projects and large numbers o f small value
transactions; and (iv) disbursement o f funds from provinces/prefectures to local levels on
a lump sum basis and based on progress reports. These risks are mitigated by a series o f
measures described in the OMS and MFP: definition o f eligibility criteria for project
sponsors and especially NGOs; financial management and disbursement procedures;
reporting mechanisms from project sponsors to provinces/prefectures level; signing o f
partnership agreements; ex-post controls arrangements and external audit for the program
accounts. In addition, capacity buildingactivities inproject management and training on
INDHspecific procedures areplannedinthe context ofthis program.

67.      Based on the above risk analysis, the overall financial management risk for
this project is assessed as significantto high.

        Reporting and audit arrangements of theprogram

68.      Interim Financial Reports. Consolidated financial reports will be produced each
semester by the INDHUnit based on the budgetaryexecution statement produced by the
information system in place. They will provide a cumulative status at the end o f each
semester o f resources (budget allocation and scheduled activities) and use o f funds
(commitments and payments) for each budgetaryyear. These reports will be amongst the
reports reviewed by World Bank during its annual disbursement decisions.




  CountyFinancialAccountabilityAssessment Review -Morocco-October 2003

                                            -21 -


69.     Audit of the program. Audits o f the INDH special revenue account are
introduced by the INDH regulation. The audit arrangements are reinforced in order to
mitigate the reduced ex-ante control and the inherent risks o f the program which i s
essentially executed at the local level. These arrangements are described in the Annex 7
and are acceptable to the Bank insofar as INDHfinancial statements will be submitted to
an annual audit conducted by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and according to terms o f
reference and auditing standards acceptable to the Bank. In addition, an annual
performance audit report will be produced. These reports will be transmitted to the Bank
no later than 6 months after the end o f the closed year. Moreover, a summary o f the ex-
post controls conducted in the course o f each year in addition to the audit work will be
made available to Bank teams. Ex-post controls engaged by governors are also designed
at the provinces/prefectures level.

        Disbursement arrangements

70.     The disbursement mechanisms for the program are adapted to the PBA
approach. They consist of a report-based disbursement o f funds by annual tranches
according to the financing needs of the program and satisfactory progress in
implementation. It i s expected that the loan will be fully disbursedin four tranches.

71.     The first tranche disbursementwill take place uponloan effectiveness,at the
request o f MoF, and can include retroactive financing for 2006.The amount o f the first
tranche will be determined based on an Annual Work Plan for 2007 and a detailed list o f
activities and sub-projects for which retroactive financing is being requested. It is
expected to be approximately US$40 million.

72.     To determine following disbursementsin 2008, 2009 and 2010, the Bank will
review the Government's Annual Report (for the past year) and Annual Work Plan (for
the coming year, both described in section C.6); the conclusions and recommendations of
audit reports; and progress in achieving the disbursement indicators which are listed in
Annex 7. The amount o f each disbursement in 2008, 2009 and 2010 is expected to be
approximately US$20 million.

4. Social

73.     Social indicatorsremain low in Morocco. Nearly two thirds o f Morocco's poor
live inrural areas. Recurrent droughts over the last four years havepushed rural families
to migrate to cities in search o f better economic opportunities, depriving rural areas o f
valuable workforce. A full 67 percent o f rural inhabitants are illiterate. Poor urban
residents are excluded from economic opportunities, alienated from productive social
interactions, and politically marginalized. Weakening ties o f family solidarity in urban
areas has left many groups with nowhere to turn for help (e.g., unwed mothers, street
children, people with disabilities, etc).

74.     In both urban and rural areas, youth have little say in decision making and
face challenges in economic participation. Youth between 15 and 24 comprise more

                                           - 22 -

than 21 percent o f the population and suffer from low social indicators. For instance, 21
percent o f male youth and 42 percent of female youth are illiterate; this figure climbs to
70 percent for rural female youth. Moroccan urban youth suffer from high rates o f
unemployment (34.5 percent compared to 13 percent for the overall population). As data
from Morocco in the global Moving out ofpoverty study have shown, youth express a
marked sense o f alienation, hopelessness and frustration. Migration - and the
increasingly limited option o f illegal immigration - is perceived as the only option for
socioeconomic mobility. Associated with the INDHprogram, and with financing from
the Trust Fund for Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development (TFESSD) a
three-year research action program, "Breaking the Barriers to Youth Inclusion," will be
conducted which will analyze factors contributing to youth exclusion andpropose actions
that will be implementedunder the INDH.

75.     Women also continueto be marginalizedfrom the economy and instancesof
decision making. Cultural biases continue to limit women's physical mobility andtheir
access to opportunities and resources. Although women in rural areas actively contribute
to the economy (nearly 42 percent o f the labor force i s female), the vast majority are non-
salaried members o f the family. Only 10 to 15 percent o f women own farms. Poverty in
urban areas is also increasingly feminized, in contrast to rural areas where women and
men are exposed to similar degrees o fpoverty.

76.     INDH is designed to promote empowerment, accountability and social
cohesion.     The program relies on a participatory process intended to empower the
poorest o f Morocco's citizens to find a variety o f solutions to address their constraints -
including actions implementedby the communities themselves - and to holdtheir elected
representatives and service providers accountable. It relies on the existence o f a dynamic
civil society which has been further energized by the launch o f INDH. Women will be
empowered through increased economic opportunities and participation in decision
making. Youth will have greater opportunities for networking with each other (e.g.,
youth centers) and dialoguing with local decision makers. The project's impact on social
capital will be measured through the Social Capital Assessment Tool which tracks factors
such as increase inthe number o f people who participate in associations, improvement in
the quality o f service delivery and trust in local government.         Citizen's degree o f
satisfaction with the participatory process and services delivered through INDHwill also
be measured through periodic satisfaction surveys.

5. Environment

77.     To address the environmental impacts of the project an Environmental
ManagementPlan(EMP) was preparedby the governmentand hasbeen considered
acceptable by the Bank. According to the EMP, it is expected that most sub-projects
financed by INDH will lead to positive environmental outcomes and that the possible
negative impacts engendered by some projects will be neither significant nor irreversible.
It should therefore bepossible to identifythese impacts andmitigate them through simple
and effective practices. Nonetheless, the cumulative effect o f negative impacts can be
significant andwill need to be monitored carefully duringprogram implementation.

                                                       - 23 -



  78.      The EMP contains a description of the environmental procedures to be
  applied during program implementation. These procedures define the screening
  process that will determine if a detailed environmental assessment is necessary for each
  activity. Simple environmental screening tools have been integrated into all relevant
  operations manuals. A presentation o f a list o f generic mitigating measures is also
  provided for inclusion in the definition o f the activities and in the works contracts as
  needed. Measures for increasing awareness and strengthening capacity to implement the
  program activities in a sustainable manner are also provided in the EMP. The
  institutional responsibilities for implementing the EMP at the local, regional and national
  levels have been clarified and a dedicated staff member o f the INDH Unit will be in
  charge o f overseeing implementation o f the EMP and the Resettlement Policy
  Framework (see below).           The cost o f the different measures recommended has been
  estimated and taken into account inthe costing o f the program. A summary o f the EMP
  i s presented inAnnex 10 A.

  6. SafeguardPolicies

  79.      The two safeguards policies that apply to the project are OP 4.01 and OP
  4.12. INDH was classified as Category B according to the Environmental Assessment
  Safeguards Policy 4.01.

                            Table 2: Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project

                                                                                       Yes                   No
Environmental Assessment (OPIBP 4.01)                                                  [X 1                   [I
Natural Habitats(OPiBP 4.04)                                                            [I                   [ XI
PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                                 [I                     XI
Physical Cultural Resources(OP/BP 4.11)                                                 [I                   [X 1
Involuntary Resettlement(OPiBP 4.12)                                                   [ XI                   [I
IndigenousPeoples (OPiBP 4.10)                                                          [I                   [ XI
Forests (OPiBP 4.36)                                                                    [I                   [X 1
Safety of Dams (OPiBP 4.37)                                                             [I                     X I
Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)'                                                 [I                   [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OPiBP 7.50)                                        [I                   [X 1
Pilotingthe Use ofBorrower Systems to Address Environmental and
Social Safeguard Issues inBank-SupportedProjects(OP/BP 4.00)                            [I                   [ XI


  80.      Because sub-project sites are not yet known, a Resettlement Policy
  Framework (RPF) has been prepared during project preparation. Existing land
  acquisition procedures in Morocco are, in general, consistent with Bank policy. The
  preparation o f the RPF was based on findings from field visits o f INDHactivities under
  implementation and included consultations with communities and project implementers.
  The document has been reviewed satisfactorily by the Bank. The RPF includes simple
  screening criteria which have been included inthe operations manuals. Capacity building
  and monitoring o f the RPF has also been includedand the budget for these activities has


  * By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties'
  claims on the disputed areas

                                         - 24 -

been estimated and included in the costing of the program. A summary of the RPF is in
Annex 10B.

7. PolicyExceptionsandReadiness

81.   Nopolicy exceptions are anticipated. Project readiness is summarized inTable 3
below.

                 Table 3: ReadinessFilter for Morocco, MENA Region

                                          - 25 -



                       Annex 1:CountryandSector Background

         NationalInitiativefor HumanDevelopmentSupportProject(INDH)


I. CountryBackground

Population,GrowthandEmployment
1.      Morocco's population was about 30 million in 2005, o f which about 41 percent
live in rural areas and 59 percent in urban areas. Population growth has been high over
the last decades, averaging 2.3 percent between 1950 and 2005, and 1.6 percent over the
last decade. The age structure o f the population is remarkably young: 67 percent are
below the age o f 30, increasing the demand onjobs and state provided services.

2.      Over the last 35 years, GDP growth has averaged an annual 3.8 percent. However,
the volatility o f Moroccan economic growth has affected the country's development and
public expenditure sustainability.   During the 1 9 9 0 ~several droughts have seriously
                                                          ~
affected the agricultural sector and with it the whole Moroccan economy, and growth
rates went down to an average o f just over 2 percent. Together with the demographic
pressures, this has further slowed down per capita income increases, when compared to
other developing countries, with less than 1 percent growth rate during the 1990's. In
recent years, the Moroccan economy has recovered, pushing per capita incomes up to
around US$1,700 in2005 compared to US$1,200 in2000.

3.      Morocco's active population (defined as those of age 15 or more) has
significantly grown over the past 20 years. Urban active population has grown by more
than 80 percent between 1986 and 2004, even if the majority o f the employed (52
percent) still works in rural areas. Among the employed, almost 70 percent have no
diploma at all, and only 6 percent have earned a university degree.

4.      Unemployment rates have followed the country's growth path. From around 11.5
percent in the mid 1 9 8 0 they
                           ~ ~ have risen to 15 percent in the 90's and are now backing
below 12 percent. However, while rural unemployment has been divided by three in
absolute numbers over this period, urban unemployment has more than doubled and now
affects 1.15 million people, or almost 90 percent o f all unemployed.        In addition,
unemployment in Morocco affects young and qualified people most.                  While
unemployment among those without diploma was a 5.6 percent in 2002, it reached 26.5
percent for those with higher education. Out o f all age groups, those aged 15 to 24 had
consistently the highest unemployment rates, which are as high as 61 percent for
university graduates. The situation o f women and especially young women i s generally
worse, in particular when it comes to graduates in rural areas. (These numbers do not
take into account non declared unemployment inthe informal sector or underemployment
inmany areasofthe economy.)

                                            - 26 -


Poverty, Human and Social Development
5.      Morocco faces high levels o f poverty. Between 1990 and 2000, the national
poverty rate increased from 13.1 percent to 19 percent, while the share o f vulnerable
people (defined as those living at or below 50 percent above the poverty line) rose from
35 percent to 44 percent. Since then, poverty has been reduced to around 14.2 percent.
However, poverty is predominantly a rural phenomenon, with enormous differences
among the different provinces and prefectures.          More than one out o f every five
Moroccans in rural areas lives below the threshold o f about US$400 per year (MAD
3,500), while the urban poverty rate is around 8 percent. Moreover, at least 200,000
Moroccans live inextreme vulnerability and exclusion, i.e. without any material or social
support. This situation mainly affects homeless children, women and elderlypeople, but
also beggars and handicapped people. This has resulted in Morocco being ranked 124'h
out o f 177 countries inthe 2005 UNHumanDevelopment Report.

6.      These development indicators are confirmed by the current situation regarding
access to infrastructure, despite massive improvements over the last 20 years. Around 29
percent o f the population has no access to electricity; 21 percent has no access to a secure
water source (against 75 percent in 1990).         However, the situation differs sharply
between urban and rural areas. A total o f 57 percent o f rural households has no access to
clean water versus less than 10 percent for households in urban areas, 51 percent no
electricity versus only 15 percent in urban areas. Over 1.2 million Moroccans live in
slums (8.2 percent of the urban and 5.6 percent o f the rural population), while about 5
million people live insub-standard housing.

7.      Social indicators, particularly for girls and women, have improved because o f the
country's ambitious literacy, education and rural development programs, but remain low
by international standards. Despite considerable progress inprimary school enrollment,
secondary school enrollment i s low at 45 percent (against close to 60 percent for the
entire MENA region). Illiteracy rates remain very high at 51 percent (for those aged 15
or above), compared to 10 percent for all lower middle income countries. Inurbanareas,
around 70 percent o f the population, and 40 percent o f the female population (over age
10) can read, while total and female literacy drops to 40 percent and 25 percent
respectively in rural areas. The infant mortality rate is 36 children per 1,000 live births,
butthe maternal mortality rate soars to 228 amongthe poor.

Decentralization and MunicipalDevelopment
8.      Confronted with rapid population growth and increased social disparities, the
Government o f Morocco has been strengthening municipal and urban development and
fostering decentralization across the three-tiered sub-government system. The country
counts 249 urban and 1,298 rural municipalities which have elected municipal councils
and a mayor selected from among the council members. They are incharge o f delivering
basic services, but their dependency on central government transfers to cover wages and
administrative costs i s high. There are 71 provinces and prefectures, which are
deconcentrated administrative entities o f the Ministry o f the Interior. They are headed by
an appointed governor and a local assembly elected by members o f relevant municipal
councils. Provinces generally carry out rural investment and oversee rural municipal

                                             - 27 -


activities, but do not deliver local services. Sixteen regions, each one headed by an
appointed governor (Wali), have.considerable responsibilities in the areas o f economic
development, regionalplanning, or social welfare.

9.       Since the 1 9 7 0 ' ~Morocco has tried to increase responsibilities for services at the
                              ~
municipal level. Over the past 20 years, the framework for fiscal and administrative
decentralization has gradually been expanded regarding inter-governmental transfers
(reforms o f 1988 and 1997), the structure o f local revenues (1989), a credit financing
system for investing (1992) and accountable, local financial management (1997). As a
result, local revenues increased as a percentage o f GDP from 2.4 percent to 3.7 percent
between 1994 and 1998, accounting for 14 percent o f general public revenues. This is
higher than for most other countries o f the MENA region. The potential for
decentralization i s strong given the demand for basic services resulting from Morocco's
rapidurbanization, disparities inaccessto basic services, anda tight budgetary situation.

10.      However, there remain major challenges to decentralizationwhich have tended to
reinforce centralization o f decision-making authority and financing. These challenges
    .
are::

         The level o f autonomy o f local decision-makers has so far been constrained by
         extensive central oversight and the legal obligation for pre-approvals for nearly
    .    every local financial, investment,borrowing and budgetary decision.

         The appropriate assignment o f expenditures faces two additional obstacles: (i)
         misallocations of responsibilities (planning, operations and investment) among
         the different tiers of government; and (ii) considerable variations incapacity at the
    .    various levels o f sub-national governments.

         The proliferation o f small rural and urban municipalities accentuates this capacity
         problem for the delivery of quality public services in an economically viable
    .    manner.

         Despite the existence o f a well-developed credit market, there is little interest to
         finance municipal investment from commercial banks, as institutional and
         regulatory impediments make it difficult for them to prevent credit risks.

11.      Sector Background

11.      Unemployment and the multiple faces of poverty, vulnerability and social
exclusion are closely intertwined, but ask for different solutions. Inthe case o f Morocco,
the urban-rural divide is of crucial importance. On the one hand, poverty, defined as the
sheer lack o f revenue to cover living expenses, is prevalent inrural areas and the growing
poverty belts around major urban agglomerations.             On the other hand, cities face
problems o f vulnerability and social exclusion that are linked with poor housing
conditions, high unemployment, especially among the youth, gender disparities and the
lack o f opportunities for social participation. While a major effort has been undertaken
by the Government o f Morocco to localize poverty with the recently published poverty

                                           - 28 -


maps, the definition and clear targeting o f social exclusion remains a challenge because
o fthe complexity and multiple facets o f the phenomenon.

12.     Since his accession to the throne in 1999, King Mohammed VI has favored
Morocco's focus on poverty eradication and social development, through his early
speeches, the mobilization o f funds, the establishment o f new institutions (Social
Development Agency, 1999) and public foundations with strong NGO representation
(Hassan I1 Fund for Social and Economic Development, 2000; in addition to the
Mohamed V Foundation for Solidarity, 1998).           In particular, he has challenged the
government, civil society, and the private sector to collaborate and face up to these
difficult issues. The justice system, human rights and tolerance for open discussions
about social problems inthe media have considerably improved.

13.     A promising new approach has been implemented by the Social Development
Agency (Agence de Dkveloppement Social, ADS). Its objectives focus on the creation
and reinforcement o f humancapital at the local level, community participation and good
local governance. More than 1,350 small projects have been implemented in rural and
urban areas between 2003 and 2005, covering various sectors such as education (pre-
schooling and schooling infrastructure), water (individual and collective connection),
rural roads and irrigation, stock farming and other revenue generating activities,
professional training and capacity building. The A D S budget for social development
projects however remains very limitedwith only about US$13 million plannedfor 2006.

14.     Despite the new emphasis on poverty reduction, many challenges remain. Public
expenditures in social sectors, although increasing, have been (i)   insufficient for lifting
people out o f poverty andreducingvulnerabilities; (ii) towards the better-off; and
                                                         skewed
(iii)inefficient. The following section reviews the situation inthe urban, rural, and social
sectors by presentingthe specific challenges and evaluating past policy interventions.

RuralDevelopment
15.     Despite major urbanization tendencies, Morocco's rural population remains
important with a share o f over 40 percent o f total population.           Agriculture and
agriculture-related activities, the mainstay or rural incomes, account for about 15 percent
o f GDP and more than 20 percent o f exports. However, these figures do not reflect the
forward and backward linkage effects o f agricultural activities and the fact that rural
Morocco still provides 52 percent o f total employment. Moreover, agriculture can be
considered as an employer of last resort since growth inother sectors has not been able to
keeppace with the increased labor force.

16.     Over 60 percent o f Morocco's poor (about 3.5 million people, representing 25
percent o f the total population) live inrural areas. Rural incomes are about half o f urban
levels. Social indicators in Morocco are similar to those in countries with much lower
per capita income. Despite considerable progress over the last few years, rural areas still
suffer from major risks:
     .  Morocco's endemic vulnerability to drought makes agriculture a highly risky
        endeavor for the majority o f farmers who only have poor productive assets. As a

                                     - 29 -

 consequence o f droughts and floods, forest resources have been degraded, while
 yields from overexploited, marginal lands are low. The availability o f irrigated
 water i s uncertain. Salination and groundwater limitations will contribute to make
 Morocco a water-deficient country by 2010. In addition, past population growth
.putspressure on land, which has contributedto major rural-urban migration.

 The high illiteracy rates and lack o f education still limit the rural population's
 access to knowledge needed to improve productivity, commercialize products,
 and diversify income resources.

 The lack o f basic infrastructure remains considerable, in particular regarding
 water and electricity. More thanhalfthe rural villages have no all weather roads,
 which can make market access difficult. This restricts opportunities for the rural
 population to effectively benefit from agricultural-based activities and diversify
.sources o f income.

 Due to the instability and seasonality o f agricultural income, many o f the poor and
 vulnerable in rural areas are involved in micro-enterprises to earn an additional
 income. However, only less than 10percent o f their needs for both financial and
 non-financial services to support their activities are currently met by existing
.NGOs that offer micro credit programs.

 Access to basic health services is available to less than 50 percent o f the rural
 population, while health insurance i s virtually non-existent. This explains why
 infant and maternal mortality rates for poor people are comparable to those o f
.low-income countries, and why chronic malnutrition still threatens many children.

 Finally, the absence o f savings, pension or social security programs poses
 particular problems for those physically or mentally handicapped and for elderly
.people who must be looked after by families.

 Government spending on rural development has been traditionally low (2.3
 percent of GDP in 2003). In 1999, Government o f Morocco launched its 2020
 Rural Development Strategy, which is a thorough and well thought out basis for
 rural development. Among the major rural development policies developed inthis
 context are:

     Price supports and other incentives for cereal production, along with high
     protection rates for staple crops, and the expansion o f modem irrigation:
     These policies have failed in ensuring domestic cereal supplies and increased
     the country's increased vulnerability to droughts.

     Emergency drought relief and rural public works infrastructure programs have
     beenessential inhelpingrural populations get through climatic shocks; but the
     question o f efficiency and returns to these high and frequent expenditures
     remains.

                                            - 30 -



           Rural infrastructure spending has increased from low levels at the end o f the
            1990s, though the costs o f providing services such as electricity and roads
           (due to low population densities inrural areas) remains very high.

           Health expenditure is not only very low (the budget o f the Ministry o f Health
            for current expenditures and investment amounted to around 1.3 percent o f
            GDP in2003), but focuses heavily on urbanareas, as more than 75 percent go
           to urban hospitals and clinics. While there is an oversupply o f doctors in
           urban areas, there is a shortage o f female nurses, midwifes and health care
           visitors in rural and peri-urban areas. Rural health clinics have been built
            under the government social priorities program, but under-staffing and access
            from remote rural areas have caused problems.

        0   Ifeducation expenditure is average by international standards (6.3 percent of
            GDP in 2004), public spending however favors secondary schools (with
            expenditures per student three times those for primary school pupils) and the
            better-off in urban areas. Nevertheless, primary education and enrollment
            rates for girls have considerably increased in rural areas, thanks partly to the
            Social Priorities Program implemented, with Bank support, in 14 o f the
            poorest provinces. An ambitious reform program was endorsed in 2000 that
            distances itself from the earlier "blueprint" approach with standardized school
            constructions, curriculum, and teaching methods, by adapting teaching to local
            conditions in different parts o f the country, as this has been successfully done
            bycommunity-based schools.

17.     Inthe light of these shortcomings, the government has recently taken additional
steps. In2002, it was decided to accelerate the rural infrastructure programs by reaching
90 percent coverage for potable water and 92 percent for electricity by 2007, and by
building 1,500 km o f roads each year. In addition, the rural development strategy is
being implemented through integrated and participatory rural development programs
targeted at disadvantaged areas. Finally, a Rural Development Fund contributes to the
administrative reforms under way that aim at greater deconcentration o f decision-making.
The 2002 government program for rural development will also extend the existing health
and education programs from 16 provinces today to a total o f 46 provinces.

18.     In 2005, the government adopted a program to increase productivity in the
agricultural sector by promoting specific crops, techniques and breeding.         Regarding
micro-credit, a support program recently was launched to build capacity among the 13
established micro-credit associations to help them broaden their product range, develop
their rural activities and improve their management. The program also aims to increase
the financing capacity o f these associations and to create a refinancing fund to lift their
major constraints for business development.

                                           - 3 1 -



UrbanDevelopment
19.   UrbanMorocco hosts almost 60 percent o f the total population, 80 percent o f the
economic activity and 90 percent o f all unemployed. Inaddition, almost 80 percent o f all
Moroccan slums are situated in urban areas.         In the next twenty years, the urban
population share is expected to reach 70 percent. The urban problems o f vulnerability
and social exclusion are not limited to cities, but do actually cross administrative
boundaries to expand into the peri-urban surroundings, where they add up with the
problems o fpoverty more typical o f rural areas. The main risks faced today by the urban
population are the following:

      The influx o f rural migrants to urban areas has outpaced by far the supply o f
      social housing and basic services (sanitation, health and schools). Approximately
      one third o f all urban dwellers are living in units threatening collapse, informal
      (often illegal) settlements, or "shanty towns". Access to services in slums i s very
      low where it is estimated that 30 percent o f the informal households are equipped
      with drinking water and 45 percent with sanitation.            The growth o f these
       settlements has been faster than formal housing supply over the past 20 years,
      mainly due to inflexible, costly land regulations and inadequate financing systems
      o f social housing.

      Urban unemployment lies between 10 percent for non-educated and 26 percent
       for highly educated people, the rate going up to 65 percent for female university
       graduates between 15 and 24 years o f age. High job destruction rates, modest
       formal sector job creation, and growing urban labor supply are the main issues to
       address. For the poor with limited education who are in search o f work with no
       family members to protect them, the only option is often to accept poverty-line
      wages ininformal sector jobs.

       Levels o f education in urban areas are low, even if they are considerably better
       thaninrural areas. More thanhalfo fthe urbanpopulationis betweenages 15 and
       39, but the majority has little or no education. And many o f those with university
       degrees (in particular in humanities or social sciences) find their training
       inappropriate for the jobs offered. An estimated 30 percent o f urbanworkforce is
       illiterate, and the average number o f years o f schooling i s low (approximately 3,
   .   compared to 5 inTunisia or 7 inMexico).

       On-the-job training is modest, though expanding. Out o f the 3 to 4 million school
       age children out o f school, manybecome "apprentices", performing tedious, even
   .   dangerous tasks, with little or no pay and uncertain acquisition o f know-how.

       Health indicators are better in urban areas than in rural areas, but formal health
       insurance still covers less than 20 percent o f the population, most o f which are
       civil servants.    Social security covers approximately 25 percent o f the total
       workforce in the formal sector, while those without coverage have to rely on
       family solidarity.

                                            - 32 -
    .  All the above mentioned factors combine into situations o f social exclusion,
       which certainly contribute to tensions, social unrest and criminal actions, as
       people, and particularly young people feel devoid o f future perspectives, a
       recognized position in society, and the opportunity to participate in making
       decisions that affect their lives.

20.    Most o f the government programs in Morocco are targeted towards urban areas
but the absence o f private sector led growth, low private investment, and modest job
    .
creationpose major handicaps to urban development.

       Morocco has a 30-year history o f interventions in slums. These public housing
       programs have combined the following approaches: (i)       on-site slum upgrading;
       (ii)provision o f serviced plots for beneficiaries who then build progressively; and
       (iii)construction of apartment blocks. However, this focus on new legal
       settlements has largely neglected the existing and growing illegal settlements,
       which are affected most by the drivers o f social exclusion. Major beneficiaries o f
       the public landdevelopment schemes were low- to mid-level civil servants rather
       than the poor. Moreover, relocations have been associated with the loss o f social
       networks, distance from jobs, and the lack o f services and public transport in the
       newly urbanized zones as the most pervasive problems encountered by the
       beneficiaries. Hence, the brick-and-mortar approach to urban upgrading has not
       sufficiently taken into account integrated approaches that incorporate social
       services, economic development, build human capital, and thereby create social
    .  cohesion.

       Active labor market policies are a political necessity given the prevalence o f
       young and unemployed graduates.           Past measures have included credits to
       promote young people's business ideas, but the success was limited (50,000 jobs
       created between 1988 and 2002), the costs very high (over US$600 million) and
    .  the sustainability o fthe micro-businesses low.

       Expenditures for food subsidies, which had more than tripled between 1990 and
        1998 (reaching 1.6 percent o f GDP in 1998) due to high farm support prices, have
       come downto 0.5 percent o f GDP in2004 and 2005.

21.    Several new programs have been recently launched to address some o f the issues
raised. In 2003, the government introduced a new strategy that focuses on slum
eradication, a bigger role for the private sector in the provision o f low-income housing,
and the provision o f special credit schemes to low-income households that were so far
excluded from mortgage markets. The program for social housing "Cities without slums"
was launchedto provide accommodationto all existing urban slumhouseholds (estimated
at 212,000 in 2003) by 2010, for a total budget o f around US$2 billion. In addition, the
government wants to prevent hrther slums by increasing the supply o f serviced or semi-
serviced plots inpartnershipwith private developers. However, initial evaluations o f the
"Cities without slums" program stress that the social dimension o f urban upgrading have
been underestimated once more.

                                              - 33 -

22.      Very recently, the government has also initiated a new proactive job promotion
program that plans to create 200,000 jobs between 2006 and 2008, for an estimated
budget o f around US$200 million. The program revamps the former support for small
business creation, but also includes job market access facilitation for young graduates
that are long-term unemployed.        Moreover, the program aims at better adapting the
existing education and training systems to the needs o f the labor market, and particularly
private companies. Finally, labor market regulation will be improved through the reform
o f the National Job Agency.

Vulnerability

23.      Low levels o f economic growth have resulted in increased rates of
unemployment, poverty and vulnerability. The weakening o f family solidarity in urban
areas has left many groups with nowhere to turn for assistance, creating a growing
problem o f vulnerability (unwed mothers, street children, handicapped, battered women,
or HIV/AIDS suffers). Social security outlays relative to GDP have doubled since 1990,
but still benefit only a quarter o f the workforce andaround40 percent o f people aged 60
or above, mainly in urban areas. Fifty percent o f the benefits flow to the public sector.
The pension programs are critically under-funded, as the number o f retirees increases but
the number o f contributors stagnates. Also, the current pension system does not address
the safety net problems o f the most needy (low-wage, life-long contributors that reach
retirement age, older population with chronic or degenerative diseases). Public works
through the Promotion Nationale program provides labor intensive civil works in rural
areas and is the best targeted assistance and safety net program.

24.      Overall, Morocco lacks a comprehensive social safety net program and support
for vulnerable groups is highly precarious.         At the moment, programs for vulnerable
people are run by a combination o f public and non-governmental organizations. The
National Welfare Agency, Entraide Nationale runs more than 500 welfare centers
throughout the country, reaching out to the destitute elderly, women heads o f households
and orphans, and serves about 46,500 people. It also runs one center for children with
disabilities (total number served i s 107). Despite significant budget increases from less
than US$25 million at the end o f the 1990s to over US$60 million in 2006, the agency
faces serious constraints o f quality o f its services andnumbers, organization and capacity
o f its employees. The Ministry o f Youth and Sports runs 16 centers for youth in conflict
with the law, numbering almost 6,000.         The Ministry o f Justice operates 3 centers for
youth under 20 and inconflict with the law (number about 2500). The Ministry o f Health
runs 11centers for children who are victims o f violence. The Ministry o f Interior runs
"polyvalent centers" reaching a highly diverse population o f vulnerable groups. Street
children, women who are victims o f violence, and single mothers are also served by a
numbero fNGOs.

25.      However, these interventions are markedby poor quality of service, lack o f norms
and standards o f service, poor management, and lack o f monitoring and evaluation. To
improve this situation, a law is inthe process o f beingpassed (law 14/05) which pertains
to the creation and management o f social centers offering services to people invulnerable
situations. The law covers :

    .                                    - 34 -


       Procedures for creation o f new centers: specifications centers must comply with;
       application form which is reviewed by a Commission composed o f
       representatives o fEntraide nationale, local elected officials and representatives o f
    .  local government agencies operating inthe area o f social services;

       Minimal norms in terms o f infrastructure, hygiene, security, and management
    .  whichwill be further detailedinthe decrees currently beingfinalized;

       Procedures in terms o f administration, accounting and finance and management
       requirements:   appointed Director ; Management Committee ; semi-annual
       reports ; database with names and dates o f arrival o f all beneficiaries o f the
    .  services provided bythe center;

       Audit requirementsand controls system (Monitoring and Evaluation Commission
       composed o f representatives of Entraide nationale, local government, local
       elected officials, and an appointed expert) and penalties in case o f non
       compliance.

26.    This law does not cover state-owned centers and centers covered by specific legal
arrangements. However, these centers will also be encouraged to align with the standards
set inthe law.

              $3 2
                 &
              3 -
           -




    E
      C
      E
      W       d
      Y8      W
              Y
       EI
      a')

      a       28
      E       9

       a
       0
       a      2mY
      a a     c)
              s
      c,      s
       a4
        El    m
        E     e,


      I &     V
              m
              U

v,      a4    0
M     n 2     Ym
              3

              9x
      G i     U


              8
              e
              3


        L     3
      (El     W
        *     Y
        Q)    8
              2
      .I
      Y m
      .I      80
      .I
      c,
        El    &
      C
      I eo
        El
      z 0
      .I
      Y

33
3z
3
373a
3,
0

                                                                37




                                    Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring

                National Initiative for Human Development Support Project (INDH)



                                                                                                          Use of Project Outcome
ProjectDevelopmentObjectives                    Project Outcome Indicators                                        Information

Assist the Government in improving              Percentage o f sub-projects identified by target       Measure responsiveness o f
inclusiveness, accountability and               communities and put forth to lineministries for        lineministries to priorities
transparency o f decision making and            consideration that are indeed funded                   identified by target
implementation processes at the local                                                                  communities.
level inorder to enhance use o f social
and economic infrastructure and services
bypoor and vulnerable groups.
                                                Percentage o fhouseholds, women and youth              Monitor ifaccess and use o f
                                                reporting increased access and use o f basic           infrastructure is increasing.
                                                infrastructure after sub-project implementation.




                                                Percentage o f households, women and youth             Monitor o f access and use o f
                                                reporting increased access and use o f socio-          socio-economic services i s
                                                economic services after sub-project                    increased.
                                                implementation.

                                                Number o f sub-projects inwhich women are              Monitor gender balance in
                                                the main beneficiaries3reach 50 percent o f            funding allocation.
                                                total o f INDHsub-projects (excluding
                                                infrastructure projects) by 2010.




 'Sub-projectsin    which women are main beneficiaries are measured as: 1) income generating activities for which women
 constitute at least 50 percent o f the members o f the group implementing the activity and 2) other types o f activities (social and
 cultural, capacity development, etc.) for which women constitute at least 50 percent o f all beneficiaries o f the activity.

                                                            38



                                                                                           Use of IntermediateOutcome
IntermediateOutcomes         IntermediateOutcomeIndicators                                           Monitoring


                             Percentageofhouseholds,women and youth who               Monitor level ofparticipationand
                             report that they participatedin all or partofthe         inclusion.
                             participatory process.


                             CLDH, CPDHand CRDH make public:                      Monitor transparencyof decision
                            A. Decisionson approvedand rejectedsub-projects       makingprocess.
                            B. Implementationandfinancialreportson sub-           Disbursementindicator
                                projects(annually)
                            C. Outcomeof procurement bids(including publicatic
                                ofresults on INDHwebsite for all bids superior
                                to MAD 2 million).

                             Beneficiarycontributionsto MDHprojectsare never          Monitor level of ownership of
                             below 10percent of INDHgrant throughoutthe               communitywhich is importantto.
                             period.                                                  ensure quality and sustainabilityof
                                                                                      investment.
                                                                                      Disbursementindicator
Component 1: Rural
Communities intargeted       Ratioofprojectsselectedover projectssubmittedat         ~Monitor dynamismof identification
rural communes actively      the communelevel.                                        processand competitivenessof
participateinselecting                                                                selection process.
priority interventionsbased  Percentageof target groupswho know which projects        Monitor ifprocessis transparent.
on astrategic planning       have been selectedby the CLDH andfinally approved
process and in implementing  by CPDH.
and operatingthe sub-
projects.                    CLDH are composedof at least20 percent ofwomen           Monitor ifvoice of women and youth
                             and20 percentof youth (under the age of 30) by 2010.     i s beingheardand if the programis
                                                                                      including groups that are not
                                                                                      traditionally targetedand consulted.
                                                                                      DisbursementIndicator
                             At least 80 percent of infrastructureworks reviewed      Monitor ifquality of infrastructureis
                             by auditors complywith technical specifications.         beingconstructed.

                             O&M is providedfor at least 70 percentof sub-            Monitor sustainabilityof sub-projects.
                             projectsfinanced by INDH(fromthe community,local
                             government,or other sources).

                                                            39




                                                                                        Use of IntermediateOutcome
IntermediateOutcomes         IntermediateOutcomeIndicators                                       Monitoring


Component 2: Urban
Communitiesin targeted       Ratio ofprojectsselectedover projectssubmitted at    Monitor dynamismof
urbanneighborhoods           the neighborhoodlevel.                               identificationprocessand
activelyparticipatein                                                              competitivenessof selection process.
selectingpriority            Percentageof target groupswho h o w which projects   Monitor ifprocessis transparent.
interventionsbasedon a       havebeenselectedby the CLDH andapprovedby
strategic planningprocess    CPDH.
and Inimplementingand
operating the sub-projects.  CLDH are composedof at least20 percent ofwomen       Monitor ifvoice ofwomen andyouth
                             and20 percentof youth (underthe age of 30) by 2010.   i s beingheardand if the programis
                                                                                  including groupsthat are not
                                                                                  traditionally targeted andconsulted.
                                                                                  DisbursementIndicator
                             At least 80 percent of infrastructureworks reviewed  Monitor ifquality of infrastructureis
                             by auditors complywith technicalspecifications.      beingconstructed.

                             O&M is providedfor at least70 percent of sub-        Monitor sustainabilityof sub-projects.
                             projectsfinanced by INDH(from the community, local
                             government,or other sources).

                             Numberof sub-projects in which youth are main        Monitor ifprogramsare addressing
                             beneficiariesreach30 percent of all sub-projectsof   issues of social exclusionofyouth.
                             the urbancomponent by 2010.

                                                               40


                                 I                                                         I      Use of IntermediateOutcome
IntermediateOutcomes               IntermediateOutcomeIndicators                                            Monitoring


People living in vulnerable        Ratio o f projects selected over projects submitted by    Monitor dynamism o f identification
conditions have access to a range  category o f target beneficiaries.                        process, competitiveness o f selection
o f social services of improved                                                              process, and allocation o f projects
quality which emphasize social                                                               bybeneficiary group.
and economic inclusion.
                                   Percentage o fNGOs offering social services that          Monitor ifthe plans are participatory
                                   report havingbeen consulted inthe preparation and         and responsive to the needs of
                                   implementation o f the provincial or regional             vulnerable people.
                                   vulnerability action plans.

                                   At least 60 percent o f the component financing is        Monitor if financing i s going to
                                   dedicated to training, technical assistance and           delivery o f services that promote
                                   operations costs o fNGOs and centers (not                 inclusion.
                                   construction and equipment) by 2010.                      DisbursementIndicator

                                   At least 90 percent o f organizations financed by         Monitor improvement in contractual
                                   INDHsign performance contracts which identify             arrangements and sustainability o f
                                   results to be achieved as well as sustainability o f      services.
                                   recurrent cost financing by 2010.

                                   Percentage o f organizations financed by INDHwhich        Monitor improvement in quality o f
                                   conform with quality standards set inthe new welfare      service delivery.
                                   law (law 14.05)

Component 4: Mainstreaming DHGovernance Mechanisms and Strengtheningof I titutional Capacity (Cross-cutting)
Provincial Competitive Fund        Ratio o f projects selected over projects submitted to    Monitor dynamism o f identification
(PCF) is usedin a transparent      the PCF.                                                  process and competitiveness o f
manner to leverage investments                                                               selection process.
made at the local level and
institutional capacity for         Beneficiary contributions to INDHsub-projects             Monitor ifbeneficiaries are actively
implementation is strengthened     funded by the PCF are never below 30 percent o f          participating in financing o f projects
at all levels.                     INDHgrant amount throughout the period.                   as a sign o f ownership and
                                                                                             willingness to sustain the investment.

                                   Audit reports validate that eligibility and selection     Monitor that PCF funding goes to
                                   criteria o f PCF operations manual are strictly applied.  targeted population.
                                                                                             DisbursementIndicator

                                   CPDH are composed o f at least 20 percent o f women       Monitor ifvoice o f women and
                                   and 20 percent o f youth (under the age o f 30) by 2010   youth i s beingheard and ifthe
                                                                                             program is including groups that are
                                                                                             not traditionally targeted and
                                                                                             consulted.
                                                                                             DisbursementIndicator

                                   Capacity development plan is updated annually to          Monitor ifthe trainingkapacity
                                   take into account emerging needs.                         development program i s flexible and
                                                                                             responsive to new demands.

                                   Numberofpeer-to-peer exchanges held annually.             Monitor ifthose implementing the
                                                                                             project actively learn from each
                                                                                             other.

                                   Communications plan i s updated annually.                 Monitor ifthe communications
                                                                                             program is flexible and responsive to
                                                                                             new demands.

               B
               e        . s:




        *
        6                 *

z> za                     62
        n                 g
       0-3                0
                          m

                          *
                          6
                          k
              I          0
                         d


        *
        6                 *
                          6
P       k
> a                       $n
        m                 m
                          m




              0     0    3


                       L

  . r




       *

     m e ,
       52
     a n



       Y        *

     2 2
       5E       62
8             o
              - aw




              2 k6
                *

                0




0    0        0      3   3

           Y

            a2
            0
         o b
         c o n


           Y




--I--    0c 88
           o n




               3

 I   a
     Y




I




                  *
                  6      *
                         5
                o $
                 m n  o $


            *            *
            E
            8
          =!ij           62
          m n           m o
                      - n




          3      0      0

ziE                     E
I                       I


                      2 2E

        *

      ? 2
        E2


                I



              z 2
                62




       3      0       3

            I



          "a"
            52




5
*



     0   3

                                        - 47 -


                           Monitoring and Evaluation System

1.    The monitoring and evaluation hnction consists of: (i) web-based management
                                                                 a
information system and quarterly reporting of program activities by the CLDH, CPDH
and CRDH; (ii)periodic evaluations based on opinion or household surveys, by
independent specialists; (iii)
                             participatory monitoring and evaluation; (iv) external audits
by IGAT/IGF and ex-post reviews conducted at the provincial level; and (v) an annual
evaluation report, an impact evaluation and other evaluations carried out by the National
Observatory for HumanDevelopment.

Reporting by CLDH, CPDH and CRDH

2.    INDHis supportedby arobustmanagement informationsystemwhich consists ofa
project database that links commune, provincial, regional and national level information.
The database is maintainedby the Direction o f Information Systems and Communication
within the Ministry o f Interior. Project data are collected at the commune or
neighborhood level using the "project form" and include, among other, allocations and
expenditures, type o f intervention, number of beneficiaries, and sources o f financing in
addition to INDH. Data for each project is inputted into the online system by the
provincial Divisions o f Social Action (DAS): During appraisal, it was agreed that
additional information will be collected and entered, in particular, a characterization o f
the beneficiaries (gender and youth) as well as the amount o f beneficiary contributions.
Because the system links commune level data to provincial and national levels,
information are easily and quickly obtained, thus facilitating project monitoring.

3.    Inadditionto theproject database, the DASwill maintain four online databases: (i)
a database on the composition of the CPDH, C L D H and facilitation teams (EAC/Q); (ii)  a
database on sub-projects presented, rejected and selected with reasons for rejection; (iii)
                                                                                         a
database on training received by committee members, project sponsors and facilitation
teams, including peer learning; (iv) minutes o f CPDH and CLDH decision meetings,
including information on when and how key decisions were made public (decisions on
sub-projects approvedrejected, implementation and financial reports, and outcome o f
procurement bids).

4.    The CLDH, CPDH and CRDH will draw on these databases inpreparing quarterly
progress reports. The INDH Cellule will be responsible for running regular reports and
producing an Annual Report. These will be shared with the Steering Committee, the
Observatory, the donor community, and other institutions, as needed.

Program Evaluation through Surveys

5.    At least every two years, specialized consultants will carry out opinion or
household surveys in INDHprogram areas with a representative sample o f respondents.
These surveys will measure the extent to which target groups, and, in particular,
vulnerable and marginal groups, including youth and women, have been involved in the

                                             - 48 -

participatory diagnostics andproject selection, are informed about the C L D H and CPDH
decisions, and are benefiting from a better access to services andbasic infrastructure.

Participatory Monitoring& Evaluation

6.     In order to ensure INDH's accountability to citizens, the project will introduce
participatory monitoring and evaluation tools for citizens to be able to monitor progress
inproject implementation and evaluate results, as well as monitor the transparency and
accountability o f their CLDH or relevant committee (CPDH or CRDH).                   These
instruments include: (i)   community score cards or other tools which allow users o f
services to rate the quality o f service delivery and infrastructure provision; (ii)
                                                                                  monitoring
o f indicators identified by project sponsors or beneficiaries to assess progress in
implementation and results; and (iii)       citizen evaluations o f the performance o f their
CLDH.

7.     The local facilitation teams are responsible for working with the communities in
implementing the above activities. The INDHUnit will carry out a program o f training
o ftrainers to ensure that all facilitation teams andDAS master the methodology and tools
and can support the communities in applying the lessons learned in improving INDH
processes and activities.

Ex-Post Review and Audit Reports

8.     The IGAT/IGFwill conduct systematic audits o f a representative sample o f all sub-
projects funded by INDHwhich will focus on the evaluation o f the sub-project outcomes
and will include technical and financial reviews. An audit o f the governance system will
examine the extent to which various groups have been included in the participatory
processes, the transparency in decision making processes, and the ways in which CPDH
and CLDH function. These audits will be complemented by ex-post reviews or internal
audits commissioned by the governors o f provinces. The audits and reviews will provide
valuable information which will be tracked inthe results framework.

9.     The results o f the audits will be made available to CPDH, including all relevant
CLDH members, immediately through oral presentations by the auditors. All summaries
o f audit reports conducted by IGAT/IGF will also be made available publicly (INDH
website, bulletinboards incommunes and provinces, etc).

Evaluations by the National Observatory for Human Development

10. The National Observatory for HumanDevelopment was established inJuly 2006 to
ensure that implementation o f INDHi s consistent with the vision o f the program. It will
carry out general and comparative studies on human development as well as thematic
evaluations and it publish an annual evaluation report. Inaddition, the Observatory plans
to carry out a rigorous impact evaluation o f the rural component, and the World Bank has
been providing methodological advice. The impact evaluation will rely on collecting
baseline data inINDHcommunes (treatment group) and a control group.

                                           - 49 -


                         Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription

          NationalInitiativefor HumanDevelopmentSupportProject(INDH)

1.       This annex consists o f two parts. The first (Annex 4.A.) describes the process
which has been adopted to target INDHinterventions and provides a discussion o f each
o f the components. For all o f the key components (rural, urban, vulnerability, Provincial
Competitive Fund, and income generating activities), operations manuals have been
designed and have been found to be acceptable to the Bank. This annex summarizes
these manuals interms of approach and activities. The second part o f the annex (Annex
4.B.) summarizes key accomplishments o f the INDHprogram since it was launched in
mid-2005.

                   Annex 4.A.: Projectand ComponentDescription

     I. Targeting of rural communes, urban neighborhoodsand vulnerable
            groups

2.       Given the objectives o f targeted reduction o f poverty and social exclusion, a
crucial condition for the efficiency and success o f INDHprojects is choosing the areas of
intervention, as well as the targeted groups within these areas, in an objective and
transparent manner. Inthe case o f the rural communes,the targeting is straight forward
as it i s based on reliable poverty data available through the poverty mapping exercise
camed out by the Moroccan Higher PlanningOffice (Haut Commissariat au Plan, HCP).
All communes with a poverty rate above 30 percent were included in the selection.
Another 54 communes with a rate between 22 percent (national average) and 30 percent
were proposed byprovincial committees based on social indicators and added.

3.       In the case of the urban neighborhoods, a different targeting process was
adopted because the poverty maps could not provide a straight forward list o f the most
socially excluded neighborhoods. The first national poverty maps issued in 2004 by the
HCP provided a clear indication o f the geographical location o f poverty across the
country, as it stood at the time o f the 1994 national census. While poverty was mostly
concentrated in rural areas, significant poverty differentials and high concentrations o f
sub-standard housing characterized urban and peri-urban neighborhoods.         These were
shown in their large administrative aggregates (communes or arrondissements, where
present). This spatial analysis was corroborated by the data emerging from the 2004
National Census o f Population and Housing, which was madewidely available as o f early
2005, before the INDHwas announced, and which confirmed the growing importance o f
urbanpoverty.

4.       A second set o f urban poverty maps, integrating the data from the 2004 census
and from a comprehensive household survey carried out in 2002, were issued in early
2006, at the time when the targeting o f urbanneighborhoods to be included inthe INDH
program took place. These color-coded maps provide a finer reading o f the location o f

                                            - 50 -

urban poverty intra-urban differentials and o f sub-standard housing, as they are based on
smaller "tracts" o f census data collection at the sub-neighborhood level, rather than at the
larger administrative unit level. The maps are unfortunately not accompanied by the
corresponding numerical data, but were widely distributed inthe form o f a publicationby
the HCP nevertheless.

5.     The January 2006 "Note d'orientation", circulated by the INDH Steering
Committee (SC)        to all regional and provincial authorities charged with the
implementation o f the program, set out a series o f social exclusion indicators to be used
in the selection of neighborhoods at the local level: access to basic services,
unemployment, illiteracy, and housing conditions. Nevertheless the criteria proposed
were left general and subject to the appreciation and interpretation o f each provincial
authority. It was also left to the local authorities to rank the importance o f such criteria,
andto introduce additional indicators ifneed be. The complementarities o f the proposed
INDH interventions with other on-going or planned public programs in the
neighborhoods to be selected were also indicated as criteria o f choice.

6.     At the same time, the INDH SC decided that the selection o f neighborhoods
would occur ina select number o f urbancenters across the country, which was chosen on
the basis o f the size o f their urban population and o f their administrative importance,
rather than on the absolute concentration o f urban poverty or social exclusion.         The
number o f neighborhoods to be supported by the program in each urban center (ranging
from 54 for Greater Casablanca to 2 for the smallest town) was also centrally decided.
This number o f urban centers and the pre-determined allocation o f targeted
neighborhoods per city reflected the goal o f extending the INDH to as many urban
centers as possible, and each provincial authority was thus asked to identify the social
exclusion differentials between local neighborhoods. This targeting approach was chosen
over the one o f focusing the program benefits on the locations o f highest concentrationo f
social exclusion nation-wide, which would have likely entailed a smaller number o f
urban centers and a greater number o f neighborhoods allocated to each.

7.     Therefore it can be argued that the neighborhoods that have beenselected through
this process are not necessarily the poorest or the most socially excluded in absolute
terms at the national scale, but rather the poorest or most socially excluded in relative
terms, within each o f the city centers that were selected upfront to host the program. It
can also be argued that the allocation of a greater or smaller number o f neighborhoods
per city on the basis o f their population size is not aligned with their levels o f urban
poverty and social exclusion. Onthe other hand, this approach has allowed a vast number
o f provincial authorities to get involved with the process o f participatory consultations
and planning, creating the basis for the strengthening o f local democracy and regaining
the confidence o f the most excluded citizens as to the willingness o f the state to attend to
their demands. In this sense, the approach strikes a balance between the two INDH
program objectives o f improving local governance and enhancing access to services.

8.     The selection o f the neighborhoods was completed by May 18, 2006 (the first
anniversary o f the INDH announcement) and the list was publicly announced, together

                                             - 51 -


with the one o f the rural communes retained. An analysis o f the data and maps available
for the selected neighborhoods leads to the following main observations:
    .   About 30 percent o f the population o f the selected urban centers is targeted by the
        INDHprogram, with a total targeted population of over 4 million people. The
        average percentage figure, though, includes urban centers where the population
    .   targeted is as low as 3 percent, and others where it is as highas 100percent.

        This variance is less a factor o f the number o f neighborhoods selected (as their
        number is related to the overall size o f the urbanpopulation) than a factor o f the
        size o f the population o f the individual neighborhoods, which varies from a
    .   minimumo f 1,000 to amaximumo f 100,000 people.

        The neighborhood is not an administrative functional entity; hence neighborhood
        boundaries were not administratively pre-determined. They were identified on
        the ground by the provincial authorities and local officials according to various
    .   local considerations inthe context o f the preparation o f the INDH.

        The percentage of the targeted population i s closely correlated to the spatial
    '   coverage o f urban areas by the INDH, which can be as low as 5 percent and as
    .   highas 100percent, dependingonthe urbancenters.

        Different indicators (such as violence and criminality, active employment, and
        others) have been added locally to the ones recommendedby the INDHSC, and
        their relative weight in justifying the selection o f certain neighborhoods over
    .   others has varied from case to case.

        While slum neighborhoods are often considered synonymous with social
        exclusion, and poor housing conditions as being a good proxy measure o f urban
        poverty, in certain cities the existing slums have not been included in the urban
    .   program, in favor o f other neighborhoods.

        Given that the financial allocation o f the program is of the equivalent of
        US$900,000 per neighborhood for the duration o f the program (2006-2010),
        irrespective of the population size, the resulting per capita allocation ranges from
        US$l,OOO     to an extremely low US$1 for the most populated o f the
        neighborhoods.

9.      Ingeneral terms, it appears that two alternative approaches have beenpursuedby
the provincial authorities in the selection of the neighborhoods, each corresponding to
one o f the two main INDHprogram objectives. They are presented hereunder as entirely
distinct for the sake o f interpretingthe large variations among the cases examined, and o f
clustering them around these organizing principles. It should however be emphasized that
a combination o fthe two approaches i s present inmany cases as well.

                                            - 52 -

10.      Those provincial authorities that have emphasized the objective o fproviding rapid
and high-impacts interventions for the benefit of the populations o f the most socially
excluded urban neighborhoods have targeted smaller neighborhoods.           Here the INDH
financial resources will be much more significant on a per capita basis, and the resulting
projects can yield more important results and thus have a higher impact. The analysis of
the available cartography and data makes the case o f Oujda stand out as a relevant
example o fthis approach (targeted population: 19percent; urban coverage: 10percent).

11.      Those provincial authorities that have emphasized the objective o f enabling sector
investments to converge within local development frameworks, to be conceived via
participatory consultations, have targeted much larger neighborhoods. Here the INDH
financial resources and the broad consultative process can leverage a much larger amount
o f co-financing from local governments and from sector Ministries, although the projects
will likely take longer to materialize, given the complexity o f aligning financial resources
from multiple budgets. The analysis o f the available cartography and data makes the case
o f Marrakech stand out as a relevant example o f this approach (targeted population: 78
percent; urbancoverage: 70 percent).

12.      The appraisal was neutral as to the greater validity o f one approach over another.
It should be however noted that in the case o f the more narrowly focused targeting of
smaller neighborhoods, the correlation amongthe choice o f target neighborhoods and the
location o f urban poverty and o f sub-standard housing are generally strong, when
comparing it with the 2006 urbanpoverty maps. This is not the case when the targeting
encompasses very large neighborhoods, populations, and urban territories, which include
areas that are not as poor and that present better housing conditions.

13.      Against this backdrop o f instruments, methodologies and alternative approaches
for the targeting o f the urbancomponent, what will ultimately tell whether the INDHwill
contribute to reducing social exclusion inthe urbanareas will be the profile and location
o f the individual projects themselves.     Information available at the time o f appraisal
indicates that local decision-makers will likely direct the INDH-financed interventions
towards specific pockets o f poverty and social exclusion, be they narrowly identified in
the up-front selection o f neighborhoods, or selected later at the project identification
stage within larger neighborhoods. On the other hand, it should also be noted that the
interventions programmed under the Provincial Competitive Fund further reduce the
scope o f spatial targeting, as they tend to "fill the gaps" between targeted neighborhoods
for the sake o f distributing program benefits to a larger number of communities.

14.      As the program unfolds, it will be possible to assess the implications of the
selected approach o f targeting relative vs. absolute social exclusion in the urban areas.
For instance, a given neighborhood inMarrakech may be locally considered sub-standard
and worthy o f INDH support, while an equivalent neighborhood (in terms of the social
exclusion indicators) may be considered standard in Meknks. Thus, the allocation of
program subsidies is not applied to the most socially excluded populations in absolute
terms, but to the most socially excluded populations in relative ones. This approach
highlights however the responsibility of the local authorities to reduce local inequalities

                                             - 53 -


and social inclusion differentials at the local level and to promote the convergence o f
financial resources towards such goal.

15.     In order to accompany the implementation o f the program, and to support its
necessary mutations over time, the INDHSC and the Bank supervision team will have to
inter alia address the following two questions:
    .   What could be a nationally accepted definition o f social exclusion, so that the
        same set o f relevant indicators could be used in the future and across locations to
        better identify target communities, establish comparable baseline data, and
    .   measure progress?

        What spatial targeting instruments would better accompany the implementation o f
        the program, and provide the local INDH teams with the tools to ensure the
        delivery o f program activities to the most socially excluded populations in each
        location?

16.     In the case of the vulnerability component, vulnerable groups are highly
heterogeneous, each with highly specialized needs. Inorder to objectively identify the
target population andthe specific activities, three functional categories are distinguished:
    .   People living in the streets: This group is deprived o f all aspects o f physical,
        economic and social protection and highlights the failure of state and social
        systems o f solidarity. Members o f this group include street children; male and
        female youth (18-25 years old); single mothers; people with disabilities, the
        elderly, etc. The priority actions for this group are outreach and emergency short-
    .   term care.

        People living in state or NGO run institutions: This group is composed o f people
        who have been placed ininstitutions by a variety o f actors (local authorities, legal
        system, police or through rehabilitation and integration programs runby NGOs).
        This is also a highly heterogeneous group including children, people with
        disabilities, the elderly, the mentally ill,homeless, the unemployed etc. The
        length o f their institutionalization varies widely from a few days to a lifetime,
        depending on the type o f vulnerability but also the program o f the particular
        center. The priority actions for this group are socioeconomic reintegration (e.g.
        family reunification, skills development), promoting autonomy, and developing
    .   alternatives to institutionalization.

        People at risk ofvulnerability: These are people living within a community but
        whose social and economic conditions are extremely fragile. Included are
        dysfunctional families (i.e. with domestic violence, a parent in prison) and those
        with irregular and informal sources o f income. The focus here would be on the
        prevention o f vulnerability through other components o f the INDH.

17.     In order to adequately target and plan interventions of the vulnerability
component, provincial and regional committees have started creating provincial and

                                            - 5 4 -


regional vulnerability maps which identify the number, location and conditions o f
existing social facilities, as well as the composition and characteristics o f vulnerable
groups needing support. This exercise is being followed by the preparation o f provincial
and regional vulnerability plans which identify specific interventions to improve the
living conditions o f the identified target groups, with a focus on encouragingtheir social
and economic inclusion.

    11.    RuralandUrbanComponents

Approach: Preparation and implementation of Local Human Development Initiatives
(ILDH)

18.     In the targeted rural communes and urban neighborhoods, Local Human
Development Committees (Comite' local pour le dkveloppement humain, CLDH) are
established, each o f which has a commune or neighborhood facilitation and social
mobilization team [kquipe d 'animation de commune (EAC) or kquipe d 'animation de
quartier (EAQ)]. At the province and prefecture level, coordination committees (Comite'
provincial/prkfectoral pour le de'veloppementhumain, CPDH) are created together with
Divisions o f Social Action (Division de I'action sociale, DAS).

19.     The members o f these different bodies (elected representatives, municipal and
local government personnel, NGOs, civil society and private sector representatives) are
trained to engage in a constructive dialogue and support the preparation o f a Local
Human Development Initiative (ILDH) in each o f the targeted communes and
neighborhoods.

20.     A rapid assessmentispreparedfor each commune andneighborhood, presenting:

    rn  geographical situation (inrural areas: different hamlets andvillages (douars));

    rn  population, inparticular, vulnerable groups andtheir specific needs;

    rn  public infrastructure: electricity, water, school, health center, market place,
        slaughtering house, roads, bridges, etc.;

    rn  social and cultural organizations;

        economic     activities:  sectors (fanning,    livestock,  and food processing;
        commercialhndustrial enterprises, handicraft, etc.), actors, organization;

    rn  strengths, weaknesses and comparative advantages o f the commune or
        neighborhood.

21.     The resulting monograph that summarizes the key figures and characteristics o f
the area serves as a basis for the participatory diagnostic, which represents the first step
towards a participatory planning process. This diagnostic is carried out to identify the
main problems and shortcomings o f the neighborhood as well as possible solutions in a

                                            - 55 -

constructive dialogue between the municipality, government technical services and the
local communities. It includes:
    .   information sessions about INDHand its procedures, targeting the different social
    .   groups within the community;

    .   reviewhpdate o f community strengths and weaknesses (socio economic analysis);

        identification o f projects and activities that cover the objectives o f INDHand for
        which local community members and entrepreneurs are ready to engage and
        contribute including: (a) small activities to solve immediate and urgent problems
        and (b) larger projects for which convergence with line ministry programs andor
        technical assistance will beneeded;

        validation o f the diagnostic with local community members through a series o f
        local meetings.

22.     The small activities are not expected to exceed MAD 30,000 (inurban areas) and
are designed to be easy to plan, execute and monitor, while larger projects might require
external technical assistance for preparation and implementation. Small activities can be
related to infrastructures, service delivery, income generating activities, or capacity
building, but have to be complementary to existing equipment or projects.            They are
selected and implemented as soon possible to engage the population in the participatory
process. The result o fthe participatory diagnostic will be a list o fprojects that serves as a
basis for the formulation o f the local plan(ILDH).

23.     The CLDH together with the local facilitation teams review and select a series o f
proposed projects from the list on the basis of common eligibility and selection criteria,
within the budget allocated to each neighborhood. Priority is given to projects that: (i)
respond to the strengths and weaknesses identified; (ii) strong ownership from the
                                                             have
community,      demonstrated by a commitment to contribute to the financing,
implementation and maintenance o f the project; and (iii)target the most vulnerable
groups within the community. The selection made by the C L D H constitutes the
neighborhood's ILDHto be implemented over the lifetime o fthe program (2006-2010).

24.     CLDH members present and discuss their ILDH with the Provincial Human
Development Committee (CPDH).           The CPDH checks that activities included in the
ILDH comply with the INDHprocedures and do not overlap/are complementary with
activities planned by line ministries or other communes. It also actively seeks support
from line ministries to help finance and implement some o f the projects proposed by the
communities. This provides line ministries with a mechanism to be more responsive to
the needs o fthe communities.

25.     Implementation o f INDH projects takes place under the leadership o f NGOs,
other civil society groups and municipalities. INDH financing mechanisms and
implementation arrangements are described in agreed upon operation manuals. For each
project, an agreement i s signed between the governor o f the province and the group or
institution implementing the project. Line ministries provide technical and financial

                                           - 56 -

support as needed, and can be instrumental, in particular, in helping design and
implement operations andmaintenance plans.

Activities
26.     All sub-projects financed by INDHare characterized by their complementarity to
existing or planned larger initiatives, in order to ensure the highest possible impact in
terms o f poverty reduction and social inclusion. The selection will seek to guarantee a
balance between the different types o f interventions, for which possible sub-projects are
presentedbelow.
        Improving access to basic infrastructures and services: Projects targeting this
        objective can be related to the rehabilitation, extension or improvement o f road
        and street infrastructure, electricity or water supply, sanitation or solid waste
        services. They can also contribute to rehabilitating schools, local health centers or
        community centers. Finally, they can include limited construction activities for
    .   public gardens, sports or other public facilities.

        Promoting social, cultural and sports activities: Typical projects o f this type
        support local NGOs and civil society groups, local women or youth community
    .   organizations and local activities and events inthe area o f culture or sports.

        Building and developing local capacity: Projects under this category provide
        technical, procurement, and financial training for municipal employees and local
        managers o f INDH or management training for local communities (e.g. running
        an NGO) as well as any other support that contributes to enhancing local
    .   capacities.

        Promoting and supporting local income generating activities: This objective will
        be realized through financial support for developing local businesses with regard
        to improved organization, product quality, or marketing. This also includes
        business training (e.g. running a micro-enterprise, developing and financing a
        business plan, etc.). Finally, INDH will encourage the participation o f the
        population in INDH infrastructure or service projects (e.g. local household waste
        collection and recycling management) that generate revenues for the local
        communities.

Monitoring and evaluation
27.     Monitoring o f project implementation i s performed by the C L D H and the
facilitation teams. As part o f the participatory M&E process, communities agree on
performance indicators to be monitored, including for each sub-project. CLDH also
provide semi-annual reports to the CPDH and report on progress on indicators included
inthe INDHresults framework (Annex 3). Community members also evaluate projects
after their implementation is complete and can call on DAS or other competencies to
assist them. Ex-post revues are also carried out at the provincial level. Finally, auditors
carry out technical and financial audits regarding all INDH projects and their impact.
They also evaluate the governance o f CLDH and CPDH and the extent to which the

                                            - 57 -


procedures described inthe operations manuals are filly complied with. All monitoring,
evaluation, and audit results are to be widely disseminated.

28.     Based on results achieved each year, some planned activities may be dropped
from the ILDH, while new projects may be added. Annual workshops are organized by
the CLDH andthe facilitation teams to review ILDHimplementation.

    111.    Vulnerability Component


Approach
29.     Inthis component, projects are identified and designed through the collaborative
efforts o f vulnerable groups themselves (where possible),             their families, their
communities, local governments and service providers. Community participation during
the implementation o f interventions is firther encouraged through the involvement o f
local organizations and NGOs in the projects, developing a civic culture o f volunteerism
andthe empowerment o fvulnerablegroups and their families (e.g. associations o fpeople
with disabilities, support groups for families o f the mentally ill).The demand-side
approach i s    complemented by supply-side interventions identified by experts
(government services, NGOs, etc) serving vulnerable groups. This also includes
upgrading physical infrastructureo f facilities servingthe target group.

30.     The needs o f vulnerable groups are integrated into the various components o f the
INDH. For example, the participatorydiagnostic inrural andurbanareaswill ensure that
vulnerable groups and those at risk of vulnerability will be identified within each locality.
The diagnostic will also identify state and civic institutions servingvulnerable groups and
assess their strengths, weaknesses and capacity building needs. This process will help
identifyinterventions at the commune andneighborhood level that couldbe implemented
as part o fthe ILDH.

31.     The approach for this component relies on vulnerability maps and action plans
(see paragraph 17 above). As a means to build these maps and action plans, a
participatory diagnostic o f the needs and priorities o f vulnerable groups will be prepared
at the commune and neighborhood level by the local facilitation teams. In communes
and neighborhoods that are not targetedINDHareas o f intervention, the provincial DAS
will carry out a participatory diagnostic. All o f this information will be aggregated at a
provincial level. The CPDHs subsequentlysubmit their vulnerability maps to the regional
level (CRDH) so that this information can be aggregated into a regional plan. The CRDH
also reviews all o f the actions plans submitted by the CPDH and decides on finding
allocations based on eligibility and selection criteria included in the manuals. The
objective is to ensure that there is a coherent and integrated framework for interventions
that ensures the complementarity o f interventions ledby different actors.

Activities
32.     The component will improve the quality o f services for the target group through
the following activities:

.                                   - 5 8 -


 Design and implementation of holistic sewices to improve the social and
 economic inclusion o f vulnerable groups and their autonomy. These programs
 focus on boththe individuals andtheir families/communities:

    Outreach and support: targeting those living/working in the streets; psycho-
    social support and counseling; support in navigating the legal and
    administrative system etc.

    Urgent care and support: establishing basic medical services, shelters, centers
    providing meals, showers, laundry, etc.

    Psycho-social rehabilitation andintegration: reintegrating target groups within
    the family unit (where possible), counselinghpport for families o f vulnerable
    persons; psycho-educational support.

    Supporting economic opportunities: Developing skills o f vulnerable groups to
    promote employment opportunities and autonomy; remedial education
.   programs.

 ..
 Developing alternatives to institutionalization:

    Promoting adoption and foster care for street children and orphans.

    Community based care (day care and rehabilitation services) for the elderly,
.   people with disabilities, etc.

 Design of standards and protocols for addressing the needs of each type of
 vulnerable group:

    Setting norms and standards for centers and institutions serving vulnerable
    groups (e.g. defining staff qualifications and their ratio to users o f the services
    o fthe center); puttinginplace a facilities accreditation system.

    Identifyingindicators andmethods for monitoring and evaluation.

    Defining modalities for coordinating with different types o f actors and
    programs.

    Estimating average annual cost per type o f intervention.

     Settingmanagement systems and standards.

    Promoting the implementation o f physical access codes for construction o f
    buildings and other infrastructure (for centers, municipal buildings, roads etc).
..
 Improving the management and quality of existing centers and institutions:

    Defining and clarifying each center's role, the target group it is designed to
     serve and its programo f activities.

                                      - 59 -
 .   Defining the management framework for each center: annual work planwith
     clearly defined measurable objectives; multi-annual budgets; terms o f
     reference and recruitment o f qualified staff inaccordance with the program o f
 .   activities, etc.

     Defining procedures inaccordance with the vocation o f the institution: These
     could include administrative management, accounting, financial planning,
 .   monitoring and evaluation, andreporting systems.

     Defining subcontracting arrangements where NGOs or the private sector
     manage and operate a state owned center: This would include the roles and
     responsibilities o f state institutions, the subcontractor, local government in
 .   operating, managing and supervisingthe institution.

     Rehabilitating infrastructure and services o f existing institutions: This will
     include renovating key buildings and grounds o f currently dilapidated
     facilities and equipment; improving services such as nutritional programs that
     address specific needs, etc.

 Capacity building: Improving the quality o f the above services requires building
 the capacity o f service providers. The capacitybuildingapproach will be based on
 practical, on-the-job training and guidance to service providers, peer-learning and
 knowledge exchange. The activities will develop the capacity o f staff in the
 ...
 following areas:

     Applyingstandards andprotocols outlined above.

     Providing psycho-social support and counseling.

     Monitoring and evaluation o f interventions            (including  participatory
 .   approaches).

     Communicatiodinformatiodoutreach methods appropriate for each type o f
     target group.

     Management o f centers and institutions.

...  Issue-specific training according to needs that may arise.

 Prevention of vulnerability: Activities designed to prevent vulnerability will be
 integrated into the rural development and urban components. They will include
 ...
 some o f the following activities:

     Support towards employment and income generation.

     Socio-cultural activities focusing on social integration.

     Prevention o f school drop-outs.

                                             - 60 -
        .   Social mediation.

Monitoring and evaluation

33.     Baseline data for monitoring and evaluation will be established through the
vulnerability mapping currently underway and this mapping will be updated every two
years. A survey o f providers and users o f services for vulnerable groups will be
conducted to measure which target population i s being reached and the degree of
satisfaction with the service delivery. The methodology will include qualitative
participatory methods, such as focus groups and, on a pilot basis, user score cards of
specific types o f centers. Each center or program will also be encouraged to develop its
own periodic feedback mechanism from users in order to improve the quality o f the
services it offers.

    IV.     ProvincialCompetitiveFund(PCF')

Approach

35.     The INDH Steering Committee provides each CPDH with an envelope for the
PCF on a yearly basis. The envelope i s a combination o f a fixed amount (equivalent to
US$1.2 million per province) and a variable amount calculated based on the share of
population living below the poverty line. The CPDH allocates the PCF financing to
project sponsors through a competitive andtransparent selection process. Eligible project
sponsors are communes and municipalities, associations, cooperatives and professional
organizations. The PCF can fund up to 70 percent o f a selected project, with the funding
ceiling set at US$35,000 per year (funding can be extended over three years). Project
sponsors can allocate up to 10percent o fthe grant fundingfor operational expenses.

36.     Each CPDH issues a request for proposals at least twice a year. The proposals are
submitted to the provincial DAS who check that the proposals are complete and meet the
necessary requirements; those that are not are returned to the project sponsors so that they
have an opportunity to complete or improve them. The CPDH then reviews all eligible
proposals and analyzes them based on the eligibility and selection criteria established in
the operations manual. Selected project sponsors are informed by the CPDH and hnding
agreements are signed at the provincial level.

Activities and Monitoring and evaluation

37.     The activities that are eligible for financing are identical to those described for the
rural and urbancomponents.

38.     The provincial DAS are responsible for monitoring implementation o f the funded
projects; they report back to the CPDH on a regular basis and provide the CPDH will a
bi-annual evaluation report. The data collected is fed into the web-based information
system and consolidated at a national level. Governors identify staff in the provinces
who carry out regular ex-post revues. All sub-projects funded under this component are
subject to random audits.

                                            -61 -


    V.     StrengtheningInstitutionalCapacity

CapacityDevelopment

39.     The sustainability, and ultimately, the success o f an initiative o f the scale and
complexity o f INDHi s a function o f the ability o f the actors and institutions it mobilizes
to effectively fulfill the roles and responsibilities allocated to them, hence the importance
o fthe capacity development (CD) component o f INDH.

Approach

40.     Until September 2005, overall responsibility for and supervision of the capacity
buildingcomponent o f INDHwas inthe sole hands o f the INDHUnit o f the Ministry o f
Interior. Since April 2006, a cross-ministerial technical "Innovation Team" for Capacity
Buildinghas been operating andhas beenproviding sound technical support, inparticular
interms ofproposing andplanningkeyCD activities.

41.     Duringthe first year o f the INDHprogram (mid-2005-mid 2006), the INDHUnit
of the Ministry o f Interior engagedinwholesale, off-the-shelf training programs targeting
local audiences: members o f the CPDH (around 800 trainees), local facilitation teams
(EAC/EAQ) (around 4000 trainees), and heads o f the Divisions o f Social Action (DAS)
(around 90 trainees).

42.     These training programs covered a variety o f topics, including: participatory
project design and project management techniques, results based management, strategic
planning, participatory and gender approaches to development, facilitation, social
mobilization and communication techniques, administrative and financial management,
and income generating activities. Training was carried out by a combination of public
providers and private providers (consultancy agencies and training firms) selected
through a competitive process. The INDH Unit also supervised training activities at the
national level on monitoring and evaluation techniques (80 trainees) and auditing
methods (for agents from the Inspection General o f Territorial Administrations, IGAT).

43.     These programs have succeeded in informing their intended audiences about
INDH,andto some extent, inequippingthem withbasic knowledge andskills requiredto
launch the activities o f INDH at the provincial, communal and neighborhood levels.
However, these programs were not sufficiently action-oriented and participatory in their
design.

Activities

44.     The INDH Unit is moving towards the design and implementation o f a more
systemic approach to capacity building and more customized training programs. This
relies on a Strategic Capacity Development Plan which focuses on selectivity,
participation and results orientation and has a short term component and a mediudlong
term one.

                                           - 62 -

45.    The short-term C D Strategy covers the period until mid-2007 and focuses on: (i)
training the DAS on the final versions o f the five operations manuals and the fiduciary
manual so that they, in turn, can train the local facilitation teams and CLDH; (ii)   peer
learning and knowledge sharing among the D A S and the C L D H across the country to
buildon, disseminate andreplicate local good practices; and (iii)  training social workers
and project implementers on vulnerability-related issues, including on methods to
conduct the vulnerability maps and actionplans.

46.    The medium to long term strategy is being developed jointly by the Capacity
BuildingInnovation Team with support from the World Bank Institute (WBI). It will be
updated on an annual basis and submitted to the WB for review. The strategy seeks to
identify a results-based menu o f training options targeting all INDH stakeholders, and to
customize this menu to the needs o f each province, so that each DAS can design its own
    .
training plan at the provincial level. These plans would include:

       Mapping o f the supply o f training at the provincial level: The potential suppliers
       o f training are government and non-government training institutes, universities
       and private consulting firms. The availability, quality and scope o f the supply
       vary greatly from one region, province or prefecture to another.       The WB is
       assisting the Capacity Building Innovation Team in the drafting o f terms o f
       reference (TOR) for the local suppliers o f training programswhich would be used
       by the DAS. Selectiono f training providers will be done according to a standard
       set o f selection criteria.  A well coordinated training market at the service o f
       INDH would ensure that the appropriate knowledge skills are harnessed to
    .  respond to the demands for knowledge on a quasi real-time basis.

       Participatory training needs assessment: A questionnaire listing the various skills
       that would need to be acquired by project sponsors at the communal and
       neighborhood level would be distributedby the D A S to the CLDH. The results o f
       this diagnostic would be aggregated and analyzed by the DAS to establish first-
    .  hand needs assessments for each province.

       Prioritization and sequencing o f training programs: Once the participatory
       diagnostics lays out the training needs, the DAS will map these needs to the
       INDH projects undertaken in each province so as to allow the emergence of a
       number o f training priorities. The DAS will ensure that these priorities match the
       typical sequencing o f ongoing and planned projects and activities, e.g., that
    .  training on INDHoperations manuals precedes training on project management.

       Training tracking and monitoring: An information system that tracks training
       inputs (who was trained, when, how many times, on what skills, by whom) and
       outputs (for what results) will be put in place at the level o f the DAS in each
       province to benchmark progress, facilitate the training evaluation and avoid
    .  duplications.

       Cost o f training and capacity buildingactivities: costs would need to be computed
       for budgetingpurposes for each province.

                                            - 63 -
    .   Participatory evaluation o f training: An evaluation process will be designed by
        which trainingrecipients will be given the opportunity to assess: (i) quality o f
                                                                                the
        the programs; (ii)the relevance o f the competences they have acquired to the
        INDHprojects they are involved in; and(iii) these training programs helped
                                                        how
        them design and implement these projects ina more effective fashion thanbefore.
        This will allow for a continuous refinement o f the supply o f training, and a better
        matching o f this supplyto an evolving demand.

47.     The medium to long term C D strategy also includes an exposure to international
experiences in the form o f round tables targeting INDH leaders at all levels. The first
roundtable focused on governors o f provinces and regions and was held with the support
o f WBI in April 2006.     At least two other such round tables are planned for more
governors, mayors, local elected officials and community leaders starting in December
2006. The next roundtable would focus on so-called "second generation" INDH issues
such as alignment o f sectoral programs with INDH, development communication,
conflict prevention and grievance mechanisms, peer learning, etc.

48.     This strategy also calls for support by the World Bank to build the capacity o f
INDHproject sponsors to deliver better resultstrough the RapidResults Approach. With
WE31 support, a number o f rapid results pilots were launched in October 2006 in the
Greater Casablanca area. This is being done inclose collaborationwith the Wilaya o f the
Greater Casablanca, the Hassan I1University in Mohammedia, and the INDH Steering
Committee to turn this pilot experience into a success that could later be mainstreamed
across the country.

49.     Another aspect o f the medium to long term strategy is to enable government-
affiliated training providers which boast substantial capacity building experience and
expertise, to play a greater role in INDH training agenda. In this regard, the INDH
Steering Committee has signed Memoranda o f Understanding with the Social
Development Agency and the Entruide Nutionale, respectively, which will allow the
provinces to tap into the expertise available at these agencies for the benefit o f INDH.

50.     Finally, this more strategic approach also gives a leading role to non government
actors such as universities (Le. Universityof Hassan I1inMohammedia). By integrating
training programs that cater to INDH actors and project implementers into their core
curricula, whether in the form o f degree programs or non-degree action-learning,
universities ensure both the sustainability and the codification o f INDH learning
outcomes. Universities would also contribute to fostering the next generation o f INDH
community leaders. An example o f this i s the degree program that the University o f
Hassan I1hasjust launched for social workers, with funding and support from the INDH
program.

                                             - 64 -

DevelopmentCommunication
Approach
51.     Development communication is essential ina program based on participation as it
i s a key instrument o f accountability, transparency and ownership.           The goal of
integrating communication inthe INDHprogram as a component is not only to facilitate
access to information and reinforce transparency but also to allow for a systematic and
efficient dialogue with all stakeholders. This will facilitate informed decision making by
all stakeholders, responsible management practices, as well as social and political
engagement and mobilization.        These elements are crucial for the success and the
sustainability o f INDH.

52.     The government has invested in communicating on the INDH approach and
    .   concepts to the public at largethrough the following two phases:

        Phase I- Dissemination o f the general concepts and global objectives o f the
        INDH:Announcements and communication on the program's general objectives
        were launched as o f July 2005 through the press and the media. A
        communications campaign was carried out to present the principles underpinning
        INDH, the general objectives of the program and its four components, and a
    .   summaryreport o fthe program implementation for 2005.

        Phase I1- Information on the program status for 2005 and 20006: In this phase
        which coincided with the first anniversary o f the program launch, the following
        actions were implemented:

        0   Production o f features and reports as well as a promotional film illustrating
            the progress o f a number ofprojects.

        0   Broadcasting o f televised debates on INDH and organization o f regional
            forums.

        0   Launching o f an INDH website and o f an intranet system to improve
            information flow within the Ministry o f Interior.

53.     At the same time, with the WE3 team's input, development communication
mechanisms were built into the operations manuals o f the four program components. The
objective i s to ground consultation, information and feedback mechanisms into the
procedures and make them actionable. So far, field visits conducted by the Bank staff
revealed that there is: (i)insufficient expertise and lack o f resources devoted to
communication at the regional and provincial level; (ii)inequalities in access to
information among the three groups that form the CPDH and C L D H (government
officials, elected officials, civil society); and (iii)inequalities in access to information
between the civil society representatives and elected officials who are on the committees
andthose who aren't.

                                           - 65 -

54.     A significant amount o f awareness raising and capacity buildingwill therefore be
required for all the key stakeholders to be able to effectively communicate on key
decisions and results. The INDH Unit and Steering Committee are starting to see the
value o f development communications and are increasingly supportive o f it. This is
significant because until recently, the SC and the INDH Unit were almost exclusively
focused on public relations activities, mostly linked to specific events and lacking a
strategic approach. The Bank i s supporting the INDHUnit to develop a comprehensive
communication strategy, drawing upon global experiences and a good knowledge o f the
local context.

55.     Inorder to support the preparation o f a communications strategy, an assessment
will be carried out at the four levels o f intervention (national, regional, provincial and
local) inorder to:
    .   Identify clusters o f stakeholders at each level o f intervention as well as to get a
    .   bettersense o fthe socio-political concerns androadblocks;

        Assess communication capacity o f implementing departments at each level o f
        intervention as well as their coordination capacity in terms o f communication at
    .   the national level;

        Identifythe most relevant communication channels for each group of stakeholders
        through the four levels o f INDHintervention.

56.     A communications strategy was prepared for 2007 and assessedas satisfactory to
the Bank. It has been agreed that this strategy will be updated on an annual basis and
submittedto the Bank for review.

Activities

    .
57.     Key communications activities to beundertaken include:

        Disseminating the operations manuals broadly and through the appropriate
        channels including traditional ones, using written, audio, video or other specific
    .   local communication tools;

        Improving stakeholders' access to on-time information and promoting an
        informed two-way dialogue and establishing appropriate mechanisms to
    ..  encourage bottom up information flow as well as peer learning;

        Improving information flow between the implementing departments, sector
        ministries and the stakeholders at the regional, provincial and local level;

        Evaluating and revamping the INDHwebsite inorder to make it more informative
        and interactive and to include mechanisms for dialogue and comments from
        stakeholders.

                                            - 66 -

58.     Workshops will be organized at the local, provincial and regional level among
stakeholders in order to foster a better understanding o f the implementation and
governance mechanisms, sustain an active debate, and strengthen channels o f
communication and dialogue.

        The CPDH will organize provincial forums every three months while the CRDH
        will organize regional forums every six months. This timing coincides with the
        planneddelivery o fprogress reports. The forums will be an opportunity to discuss
        projects status as well as possible improvements or corrective actions, taking into
        account suggestions from grassroots stakeholders;

        At the provincial level, CPDH will also carry out workshops and organize field
        visits among CLDH to enhance peer learning and to share experiences and lessons
        learned;

        The INDH Steering Committee will organize a national level INDH forum every
        six months to inform and communicate on the progress made on the ground and to
        shed light on successes, lessons learned and innovative approaches at the local
        level. The national forums will be the opportunity for dialogue with the media as
        well as the donor community.

59.     Results and recommendations from these forums and peer learning workshops
will be documented by the DAS and shared with the CRDH-and the INbH Steering
Committee. They will be used for dissemination among stakeholders at the national level
and for information sharing inthe national forums.

60.      Implementation o f INDH requires a great deal o f interaction between different
ministries and public agencies at the national, regional, provincial and local levels. It is
therefore important to extend the existing intranet network to all INDH ministries
represented in the INDH Steering Committee and throughout the national, regional,
provincial and local levels for a better flow o f information between these ministries.
Facilitating communication with the ministries supporting implementation at all levels is
also crucial. Therefore it will be important to encourage the participation of
representatives o f other ministries inthe regional and provincial forums.

Monitoringand evaluation

61.      Indicators have been built into the M&E framework, which track whether key
decisions are being shared with the community in a transparent way. Several o f these are
also used as disbursement indicators. In addition, the INDHUnit will carry out periodic
assessments at all levels o f INDH interventions with various stakeholders. Information
on the impact o f communication will also be derived from: interactions with stakeholders
at meetings, regional and provincial forums; discussions with local facilitation teams;
analysis o f CPDH and CRDH reports; field visits; and analysis o f local press articles and
o f information requests sent through the INDHwebsite.

                                            - 67 -


PartnershipManagement
Approach

62.     The INDHprogram is designed so as not to substitute for any existing programs.
It therefore seeks to develop partnerships with existing line ministries and agencies.
Many such partnerships and collaborations will be developed at the local, provincial and
regional level. Some may require partnership agreements; others may evolve naturally
and not require contractual agreements. The INDH Steering Committee seeks
opportunities for signing o f memorandums o f understanding (MOU) at a national level in
order to facilitate the work at the local level. Three such MOUs have been signed to
dates.

Activities

63.     An MOU was signed with the National Federation o f Micro Credit Associations
(FNAM) in December 2005.           The objectives o f the MOU are to assist micro credit
associations (MCA) to: (i)   reach 1 million clients by 2010; (ii) their coverage in
                                                                 extend
rural areas, and in particular in communes targeted by INDH; and (iii)     strengthen their
institutional capacity. The INDHprogram will finance the MOU for up to 200 million
DH. MCAs will submit business plans which explain how they will expand their
activities in a given region and how soon they will break even. The business plans that
are deemed acceptable will be financed through partnership agreements signed between
the Governor o f the concerned region and the President o f MCA. The FNAM will
oversee implementation o f the regional plans and will support institutional capacity
development o f the MCAs.

64.     Two MOUs were signed in September 2006: one with the Social Development
Agency (ADS) and one with the National Welfare Agency (Entruide Nutionale). The
A D S commits to: (i)supporting local communities in designing and implementing their
local initiative for human development (ILDH); and (ii)      providing capacity building
services at the local and provincial level. The provinces that require the support o f A D S
will sign a contract with the agency which will determine the types o f services and
staffing that i s needed and the financial commitment. As for the Welfare Agency, it will:
(i)provide support to the provincial andregionalcommittees to improve the current
drafts o f the vulnerability maps and action plans; and (ii) out a broad campaign to
                                                            carry
raise awareness about the new welfare law (Zoi 14.05) in order to ensure that INDH
activities contribute to helping existing welfare centers comply with the quality standards
set out in the law. In this case too, it i s expected that the Welfare Agency will sign
specific contracts with interested regional andprovincial committees.

                                           - 68 -


            Annex 4.B.: Achievementsof INDHfrom mid-2005 to mid-2006

1.       While the Bank's financial involvement with INDH will only start in 2007, the
government program has been active for more than a year. After the program was
launched by King Mohammed VI in M a y 2005, a priority program was implemented
starting inthe second halfo f 2005, with investments totalling MAD 250 million or about
US$29 million.

2.       The choice o f targeted rural communes and urban neighborhoods was, however,
only made public at the first anniversary o f the program in M a y 2006. While the INDH
committees at the provincial and regional level were established in 2005, the local
committees were mostly established in 2006 at which time they launched the
participatory diagnostics and elaboration o f local initiatives o f human development. A
total o f MAD 1.5 billion (US$l80 million) was allocated to the 2006 program and an
additional amount o f MAD 1 million (US$lOO million) was made available as an
advance on the 2007 program. O f this total, approximately MAD 1.2 billion or US$140
million hadbeenprogrammed to specific INDHactivities by end August 2006.

Achievementsof 2005 priorityprogramas ofAugust31,2006
3.       A total o f 1,104 projectswere selected under the 2005 priorityprogram: 570 rural
projects, 364 urban projects and 170 vulnerability projects. The budget o f MAD 250
million allocated to the 2005 program i s not part o f the global INDHbudget o f MAD 10
billion. It was financed by the government (MAD 50 million), municipalities (MAD 100
million) and the Hassan I1Fund(MAD 100million).

4.       Out o f the 1,104 projects, a majority o f 662 projects targeted infrastructure
investments in the following sectors: education (353 projects), health (177), and water,
sanitation and electricity services (132). By contrast, there were only 144 revenue
generating projects (representing 13 percent o f all projects) and 99 youth focused projects
(construction and equipment o f youth centres, libraries and playgrounds). The urgency
and hence short lead time for project preparation explain the heavy weight of traditional
infrastructure projects. Most projects (72 percent) were smaller than MAD 200,000
(US$24,000). On August 31St2006, 822 projects or 75 percent o f the 2005 priority
program had been completed. However, some 56 projects or about 5 percent were still at
less than 20 percent o f completion.

Achievementsof 2006 programas of August31,2006

5.       For 2006, a total o f MAD 1.3 billion has been allocated to the four components
and to support to central fbnctions:
     ....Rural program:                MAD302 million(US$35 million)
         Urban program:                MAD317million(US$36 million)
         Vulnerability program:        MAD270million(US$31million)
         Cross-Cutting program:        MAD391million(US$45 million)
6.       By end August 2006, 441 of the targeted communes and neighborhoods had
presented a Local Initiative for Human Development (ILDH). More than 4,100 projects

                                            - 69 -

with a total volume o f MAD 2.05 billion had been identified under the four components,
out o fwhich around 2,300 inthe targetedrural andurbanareas.

7.       The rural component counts 1,600 projects with an average total project size o f
MAD260,000 and an average INDHcontribution of MAD 193,000. Seventy percent of
all rural projects have a project volume equal or inferior to MAD 260,000, but some 45
projects exceed MAD 1million (US$120,000) and account for 13 percent o f total INDH
contributions. The break-down by project type is as follows: 54 percent o f all projects for
access to basic infrastructure and services, and inparticular water and sanitation projects
(342) and schooling (188); 27 percent for revenue generating activities, mostly in the
agriculture and food processing sectors (361); 14percent for social and cultural activities;
and 5 percent for capacity buildingactivities.

8.       The urban component encompasses 716 projects with an average total project
size o f MAD 930,000 and an average INDHcontribution o f MAD 461,000. Seventy-nine
percent of all urban projects are smaller than MAD 930,000, but 52 projects have sizes
superior to MAD 2 million (US$240,000) and account for more than 32 percent o f INDH
allocations to the urban component in 2006. As in the rural areas, infrastructure projects
make up the majority o f all urban projects (54 percent), with a focus on urban
rehabilitation and municipal services (147 projects). An additional 23 percent o f the
projects are for revenue generating activities (mostly trade and handicrafts); 19 percent
for social and cultural activities and 4 percent for capacity building.

9.       A total o f 1,488 projects have been selected in 64 provinces for the Provincial
CompetitiveFund, with an average total project size o f MAD 345,000 and an average
INDH contribution of MAD 180,000. Seventy-five percent of the projects are smaller
than MAD 345,000, but 18 percent of the projects are larger than MAD 1 million and
account for 18 percent o f INDH financing for this component. Thirty-four percent o f all
projects target revenue generating activities and irrigation projects and only 10 percent
water, sanitation and electricity infrastructure, with 22 percent o f all projects geared
towards social and cultural activities and 6 percent to capacity building.

10.      Under the vulnerability component, all regions o f Morocco have elaborated
regional vulnerability maps and action plans, identifying a total o f 329 projects. The
average total project size i s MAD 1.4 million, and the average INDHcontribution MAD
920,000. Sixty-one projects exceed MAD 2 million and account for 53 percent o f the
2006 INDH funding for this component. More than half o f all projects (55 percent) are
rehabilitation projects for existing centres and institutions, while 38 percent are dedicated
to buildingnew facilities. Only 20 projects (6 percent) are aimed at buildingcapacity.

                                             - 70 -



Assessment of achievements to date and lessons learned
Rapidprogress and innovation
11.     The World Bank team evaluated the preparation, implementation, and outputs of
these first two phases o f INDH in a representative sample o f rural and urban provinces
and municipalities between February and September 2006. Duringthis period, rapid and
substantial progress has been achieved on the ground, and the overall program design has
proven to be solid. Participation in INDH activities and ownership o f the INDHprocess
were found to be very good among INDHentities, inparticular the local committees and
the provincial DAS, the latter displaying a highdegree o f competence and motivation.

12.     The team observed certain remarkable creative approaches and innovations in
implementing INDH on the ground. Cutting-edge techniques have been used in some
provinces to conduct the participatory diagnostics process, leading to a very fine and
accurate prioritization o f issues and the identification o f participatory solutions.
Innovative training arrangements have been found to rapidly build capacity o f key actors.
Some cities have relied on local expertise to ensure large communityparticipation during
the diagnostics phase, which has resulted inhigh quality analysis and recommendations.
To better organize the functioning o f INDH governance bodies, some local committees
have adapted existing internal procedures from other existing committees and made them
available to local committees in surrounding provinces. Other local committees have
elaborated clear matrices o f criteria to facilitate the evaluation and selection o f proposals
for their ILDH.

Opportunitiesfor improvement

13.     Nevertheless, there are also opportunities for improvement regarding process and
project outputs. The role o f provincial government authorities and line ministries has
been pre-eminent inidentifying and implementingprojects for the 2005 priority program,
compared to relatively weak participation o f NGOs and civil society. In 2006, the latter
groups have taken a more active role in analyzing the situation, proposing and evaluating
projects and implementing the ILDH. However, the process o f creating local facilitation
teams has been slower than anticipated and more needs to be done to train these teams so
that they can carry out their responsibilities. Insome local committees, conflict of interest
situations have arisen due to the multiple functions o f certain committee members,
thereby confirming the risk o f elite capture. More importantly, the inclusion and active
participation o f women, youth and those at the margins o f society in all phases o f INDH
are still insufficient.

14.      There have been delays in disbursing INDH funds, which, if not tackled
immediately, could affect the credibility o f the program. Only 14percent o f the amounts
scheduled in 2006 had been committed and less than 3 percent had been disbursed in
August 2006. These delays stem from problems with the transfer of funds from the
central treasury to provincial treasuries and from a lack o f clarity regarding the roles and
responsibilities of the different departments at the provincial level. Government officials

                                           - 71 -


have identified specific actions that will be taken to resolve existing bottlenecks and
speed up disbursements.

15.     The preparation o f participatory diagnostics and local initiatives needs to be
improved. The diagnostics have often been carried out under time pressure, hence
reducing the possibility o f community participation, bottom-up communication, and
active learning. In some cases, it is unclear if the projects identified to be financed by
NDHare the best solutionto solving the problems identifiedbythe communities during
the participatory diagnostics. Most communes and neighborhoods have not yet started a
strategic planning exercise. The projects they have identified for financing in 2006 are
actions that were identifiedas having priority. Communities will need support inorder to
be able to design integrated local development plans for 2007-2010 which: (i) link
                                                                                clearly
proposed interventions to the issues at hand; (ii) explicit the priority ranking and
                                                   make
(iii) partnershipsforhndingandmaintenanceofinterventions.
     identify

16.     Certain important guidelines for successhlly implementingINDHhave not been
applied, given the insufficient distribution and explanation o f operations manuals to all
local actors o f INDHduring the first half o f 2006. Financial beneficiary contributions o f
at least 10 percent as defined in the rural and urban operational manuals are missing in
many projects. Regarding the Provincial Competitive Fund, 20 percent o f the projects
selected received INDH contributions o f more than MAD 200,000 (the limit set in the
operational manual). Approximately 25 percent o f all income generating activities (149
out o f 598) exceed the fixed INDH hnding limit o f MAD 300,000. The implementation
of the vulnerability component has focused primarily on infrastructure upgrading, and
some o f the projects do not hndthe most vulnerable groups.

17.     All o f the shortcomings that the World Bank team identified during project
preparation have been discussed with the Steering Committee. It has been agreed that
many o f these are normal given that the program was launched recently and implemented
extremely rapidly. It has also been recognized that none o f the shortcomings are
insurmountable, and concrete actions have been identified in all areas to resolve existing
issues and strengthen implementationgoing forward.

                                                - 72 -



                            Annex 5: ProjectCosts andFinancing

         NationalInitiativefor HumanDevelopmentSupportProject(INDH)


1.      The total project costs for INDHamount to MAD 10 billion, which are distributed
evenly between the four program components, as indicated inTable 1:

                                 Table 1: ProjectCost by Component

                  MADbillion                                    Total

                  1.The rural component                               2.5
                  2. The urban component                              2.5
                  3. The vulnerability component                      2.5
                  4. The "cross cutting" component                    2.5

                                              Total ProjectCosts     10.0

2.      The annual disbursements for INDHover the period 2006-2010 were agreed upon
in a financing agreement signed inAugust 2005 between the Moroccan Prime Minister,
the Minister of Finance, the Minister o f Interior and the Hassan I1Fund. This agreement
determines the contribution of the central government, municipalities, and international
donors for the financing o f INDH, which will be respectively 60 percent, 20 percent, and
20 percent (Table 2).

                            Table 2: Sourcesof FinancingbyProjectYear

 MADbillion                            2006      2007      2008   2009     2010  Total
 Central government                     1.o       1.1      1.2     1.3     1.4    6.0
 Municipalities                         0.3      0.35      0.4     0.45    0.5    2.o
 International donors                   0.2       0.3      0.4     0.5     0.6    2.o
               Total                    1.5      1.75      2.0     2.25    2.5    10.0


Cost framework by component
3.      The cost framework for the four program components for the period 2006-2010
    .
has been designed as follows:

        Ruralcomponent:Each o fthe targeted rural communes receives MAD5 million
        or an average o f MAD 1million per year. A total o f MAD 2.015 billion has been
        allocated with a remaining MAD 485 million yet to be allocated.

        Urban component: Each o f the targeted urban neighborhoods receives MAD 8
        million, or an average o f MAD 1.67 million per year. MAD 2.1 12 billion has
        been allocated thus far, while MAD 388 million remains unallocated.

                                           - 73 -
     .  Vulnerability component: Each o f the regions o f Morocco receives a fixed
        amount o f MAD 20 million. In addition, MAD 1.48 billion are allocated to the
        regions according to their share o f urbanpopulation compared to total population
        (because vulnerability i s primarily an urban phenomenon). A total o f MAD 1.8
        million has been allocated and an amount o f MAD 700 million remains
        unallocated.

        Cross-cuttingcomponent:Eacho fthe provinces andprefectures receives a fixed
        amount o f MAD 10 million. In addition, MAD 1.6 billion are allocated to the
        provinces and prefectures according to their share o f population living the below
        the provincial poverty line. A maximum o f 10 percent o f the allocated amount, or
        MAD 230 million, can be used for INDH administration, capacity building,
        communications, and monitoring and evaluation operation at the provincial and
        local levels. In addition, MAD 200 million has been allocated to the National
        Federation o f Micro Credit Associations through the MOU signed with this
        organization. A total o f MAD 2.515 billion has therefore been allocated to this
        component.

4.      The total amount allocated for the four components i s therefore MAD 8.445
billion. In addition, MAD 136 million has been allocated to central support functions
(capacity development, communications, M&E), essentially carried out by the INDH
Unit.As aresult, atotal ofMAD 1.44billionremainsunallocated. Itwas agreedwith the
INDH Steering Committee that, in allocating this remaining amount, priority will be
givento the rural, urbanand vulnerability components.

5.      Table 3 provides an indicative budget allocation for INDHfor the next four years
(2007-2010), based on activities provisioned under each component o f INDH. The
budgetary lines indicated in the table have been agreed upon with the INDH Steering
Committee but are more detailed than the budgetary lines currently being tracked. The
decree that lists the current budgetary lines states that the lines can be changed through a
Ministerial decision (arrgte?. The Steering Committee will ensure that this decision is
signed by Ministers o f Finance and Interior by December 31,2006.

6.      It has been agreed that the Bank will co-finance INDH with a loan of US$lOO
million, covering approximately 10 percent o f the overall cost o f the program for 2007-
2010 (MAD 8.5 billion or approximately US$1billion). The Bank's loan contributes to
the central government's share o f INDHfinancing.

                                              - 74 -


         Table 3: EstimatedAllocation of INDHBudgetby Category of Expenses2007-2010




Provincial CompetitiveFund                       351    404   462    520    577     1,963
Revenuegenerating activities
Access to basic infrastructureand services
Social, cultural and sports activities
Improvement of local governance

                                          - 75 -

                Annex 6: GovernanceandImplementationMechanisms

         NationalInitiativefor HumanDevelopmentSupport Project(INDH)


At the local level: rural commune or urban neighborhood

The Local Human Development Committee (Comitt? local pour le dkveloppement
humain, CLDH)

1.      The CLDH is the grassroots level organization in the commune or neighborhood
where the dialogue among local stakeholders takes place to design and implement the
Local Human Development Initiative (ILDH). In rural areas, it is chaired by the
President o f the rural commune. In urban areas, it is chaired by the President o f the
municipal council, another elected official or a representative from local government.
Most CLDH have 15 members, 1/3 from local civil society (NGOs, associations,
cooperatives etc.), 1/3 from local government and 1/3 chosen among locally elected
officials. Some CLDH have more members.

2.      The role o f the CLDH is to: (i)elaborate a short description o f the commune or
neighborhood (monograph), (ii)    formulate an ILDH on the basis o f (a) a participatory
diagnostic which is updated regularly and (b) a participatory planning process involving
local communities and formaVinforma1 groups; (iii)    monitor the implementation o f the
ILDH; (iv) regularly inform the local population of decisions made; (v) report to the
Provincial HumanDevelopment Committee (CPDH). The CLDH also identifies actions
to be included in the vulnerability program and validates project proposals to be
submittedfor financing to the Provincial Competitive Fund.

3.      Each ILDH includes a pluri-annual action plan composed o f a series o f activities
and projects proposed by local communities/groups.        The projects and activities are
reviewed and evaluated by the CLDH and presented to the CPDH for validation on the
basis of agreed upon criteria and procedures established in the operations manual. The
action plan i s updatedevery year.

4.      Three types o f needs will be identified during the diagnostic phase: (i) most
                                                                                the
urgent, but limited, needs that can be addressed by small-scale activities (in terms o f
financial and technical resources required); e.g. repairing a school roof or a bridge
damaged by a storm; (ii)   needs that require more elaborate solutions and prioritization;
(iii)specific needs of vulnerable groups within the community that require an
intervention from the vulnerability component. The CLDH will first select small-scale
activities to be financed and implemented immediately inresponse to these urgent needs.
The planning and prioritization process will allow the selection o f projects (to be
included inthe ILDH)that will address the more elaborate needs. The identified needs o f
vulnerable groups will be brought to the attention o f the CPDH for inclusion in the
provincial vulnerability plan.

                                             - 76 -

The local facilitation team (Equipe d'animation de quartier, EAQ, or Equipe
d'animation communale, EAC)

5.      The EAC/EAQ is the operational unit o f the CLDH at the commune or
neighborhood level. Facilitation teams are composed of personnel who have skills in
social engineering, project preparation and management, and communication. They are
either resource persons from local NGOs, staff from the municipality/rural commune or
staff from local/provincial line ministry services. They are chosen by the CLDH on the
basis o f their skills in the above fields and their commitment to the governing principles
of INDH. In some cases they can be selected among C L D H members but it has been
suggested that they have an arms lengthrelationship with the CLDH.

6.      The facilitation      team    i s responsible  for   providing   support   to  local
communities/groups for each step o f ILDH preparation and implementation: (i)
diagnostic, analysis o f constraints and identification o f possible solutions; (ii) o f
                                                                                   design
small-scale activities to be implemented immediately or projects to be included in the
ILDH; (iii)  discussion and negotiation between local community representatives, elected
representatives and government services in preparing ILDHprojects, (iv) monitoring o f
implementation o f ILDH projects, (v) channeling technical expertise from the national
expert network or the provincial Divisions o f Social Action (DAS) to respond to specific
demands from local groups for support with project preparation or implementation, (vi)
facilitating operations o f the CLDH (preparing meetings, writing minutes); and (vii)
ensuring adequate communications between the CLDH and citizens o f the commune or
neighborhood (communicating CLDH decisions to the local communities/groups,
providing CLDH feedback basedon meetings heldinthe community, etc).

At theprovincial level

Provincial     Human        Development     Committee     (Cornit6 provincial     pour    le
dheloppement humain, CPDH)

7.       The CPDH is the decision-making body o f INDH at the provincial level. It
reviews and validates Local Human Development Initiatives (ILDH) proposed by the
CLDH, finances their implementation and monitors progress. The CPDH also reviews
and selects projects presented by associations and groups for funding through the
Provincial Competitive Fund(PCF). Itmonitors their implementation.

8.       The CPDH is chaired by the Governor of the Province and includes
approximately 15 members, 1/3 representing civil society (NGOs, associations,
cooperatives etc.), 1/3 from government services and 1/3 from among elected officials.
The CPDH validates the proposed ILDHand projects for the PCF on the basis o f agreed-
upon criteria and procedures presented inthe operations manuals (rural, urban and PCF).
Also, it plays a very active and important role in ensuring that line ministries take are
consulted on the ILDH and in a position to take into account the needs expressed by
communities in their annual budget planning. Indeed, many o f the projects identified as
priority proposals by target communities in their ILDHwill require involvement o f line

                                           - 77 -

ministries for funding, technical oversight, and O&M. It is therefore essential that line
ministries be ina position to advise communities and respond positively to their requests.
Their role is also to ensure consistency o f approach between various communities and
avoid unnecessary duplication o f efforts or investments.      This will lead to greater
congruence between line ministryprograms and local ILDHprojects.

9.      Inaddition, the CPDH reviews the provincial vulnerability diagnostic and action
plan prepared by the DAS before submitting it to the Regional Committee for Human
Development for hndingby the vulnerability component.

Division of Social Action (Division de l'action sociale, DAS)

10.     The DAS is a unit o f the ProvincePrefecture (Ministry o f Interior) at the
provinciaVprefecture level under the authority o f the Governor. It is the secretariat o f the
CPDH for INDHimplementation. It screens ILDH to ensure they are in line with the
operations manuals before submitting them to the CPDH for approval, monitors ILDH
implementation, writes periodical reports (on the basis o f reports submitted by the
CLDH), provides regular updates on implementation to the INDHUnit at a central level,
and provides technical support (upon request) to commune or neighborhood facilitation
teams. In close coordination with local facilitation teams and key stakeholders working
on vulnerability issues, the DAS i s in charge o f conducting a provincial vulnerability
diagnostic and drafting a provincial vulnerability action plan. There is no hierarchical
link between the DAS and local facilitation teams. The DAS can request technical
support from the national expert network, as need arises. The D A S receives the project
proposals for the PCF, ensuring that they follow the required format and contain all the
justifications. After project selection by the CPDH, the DAS is in charge o f publicizing
the results.

11.     The qualifications o f DAS staff include social engineering, project management
andsupervision, and communication.

                                     - 78 -

      INDHImplementation at LocalandProvincialLevel


                                                                                   -




                         citizens,groups & EA
                  conduct participatorydiagnostic




                                                                           / Project   '
                                                                            sponsors
                                                                            Associations
                                                                            Communes




            Selects small-scale activities to be financed
            Approves the ILDH (Local Human Development Initiative)




                      Local Human Development




Promotescoherence between ILDHand line ministries' national programs
Validates ILDHand selectsactivities to be funded under the PCF
Preparespartnershipagreementsto be signedwith beneficiarygroups and ensures
transfer of funds
Approves the vulnerability action plan of the provincelprefecture
Monitorsimplementationof ILDH, PCF and vulnerability action plan

                                             - 79 -

At the regional level

Regional Committee for Human Development (Comitb                          rkgional pour       le
dkveloppementhumain, CXDH)

12.     The CRDH has the following functions: (i) the global coherence o f the
                                                         ensure
INDHprogram in the region, (ii)      facilitate alignment between programs undertaken by
line ministries and municipalities and the INDHprogram, (iii) work on the INDH
                                                                     lead
vulnerability component.

13.     The CRDH is chaired by the Governor o f the Region, known as the Walk It
includes the governors o f the provinces and prefectures o f the region, presidents o f
provincial councils (elected officials), representatives o f line ministries and relevant
public agencies, representatives from civil society at the regional level, representatives
from micro credit institutions, as well as representatives from universities and the private
sector.

TechnicalCommissionfor the vulnerability component
14.     The decisions o f the CRDH are supported by a technical commission which i s
composed o f practitioners and experts working on vulnerability issues. The role o f the
Commission is to:
    .   Analyze the diagnostics andvulnerability plans preparedby the CPDH;

        Onthe basis o f eligibility and selection criteria, select the activities to be financed
    .   bythe vulnerability component;

        Elaborate a regional vulnerability action plan to address the needs o f vulnerable
        groups on the basis o fthe selected activities.

At the central level

Inter-MinisterialStrategicCommittee(ComitbStratbgique)

15.     The Strategic Committee is chaired by the Prime Minister and comprises all
Ministers and Directors o f public agencies. The Strategic Committee establishes the
strategic framework and ensures a well coordinated approach amongst line ministries
towards achieving the goals o f the lNDHprogram. It is responsible, in particular, for (i)
developing the INDH approach and related implementation mechanisms; (ii)                ensuring
trade-offs within and between the various program components; (iii)monitoring
implementation of INDH principles and establishing national priorities; (iv) ensuring
participation and coherence/alignment between line ministries strategies and INDH
approach; (v) setting up INDH's financial framework; and (vi) promoting international
partnerships.

                                     - 80 -

Elected bodies, Ministry of Interior Representatives and INDH Governance at
Local, Provincial, and RegionalLevel


   Elected                                                    Ministry of
   Bodies                                  INDH                Interior
                                      Governance           Representatives




  CommunelNeighborhood Level                4



                                            CLDH

                                           Chair:
                                      President of the
                                  Municipal CounciI/Rural
                                         Commune



Provincial level

                                            CPDH
                     member                                4
                     1-11                  Chair:
                                          Governor




                                            CRDH

                                           Chair:
                                            Wali           4

                                           - 81 -


SteeringCommittee(Cornite dePilotage)

16.    The Steering Committee (SC) is chaired by the Prime Minister and composed o f
Ministers in charge o f Interior, Finance, Social Development, and the INDH National
Coordinator. It sets the budgetary allocations, oversees progress in the overall
implementation o f the program and in terms o f institutional communicatioq, and reports
to the Strategic Committee periodically. The SC has been meeting frequently and
providing proactive oversight o f implementationo f the INDHprogram.

INDHCoordinationUnit(Coordination deZ'INDH),MinistryofInterior

17.    The INDH Unit has two main missions which are to: (i)          provide support to
regional, provincial and local committees, D A S and facilitation teams, and other
stakeholders in order to ensure successful implementation o f INDHand (ii)   monitor and
report on INDHimplementation. More specifically, the unit accomplishes the following:

    .  (a)    Support to local level stakeholders:

       ensure adequate flow of communication among all INDH stakeholders at local,
       provincial, regional and national level: preparation and dissemination o f INDH
       operations manuals and simplified manuals and brochures; design o f innovative
       communication tools which support local communications (radio and TV
    .  programs); managingINDHwebsite, etc;

       promote and facilitate peer learning and exchange o f experiences between INDH
       stakeholders at local, provincial and regional level; draw lessons from
    .  implementation experience, approach and tools;

       develop tools and approaches to ensure greater inclusion o f women, youth and
    .. vulnerable groups inthe INDHprogram:

       based on field experience and lesson learned, update INDHoperations manuals;

       support DAS in preparing the provincial capacity development plans and prepare
    .  the national level C D and communications plans;

       facilitate access to technical assistance and support needed at a local level to
       improve implementation.

    .  (b) Monitoringandreporting:

       collect and analyze monitoring and performance indicators and produce regular
       reports, including annual report and progress reports for Strategic Committee and
    .  Observatory;

       produce financial reports at least every six months;

                                              - 82 -
     .  monitor implementation o f INDHprocedures, identify constraints and assist with
        solving problems or bottlenecks; monitor implementation o f recommendations o f
     .  audits;

        analyze and draw lessons from implementation, report to SC on regular basis and
     .  propose changes and improvements;

        manage technical relations with INDH donors and provide them with detailed
        implementation information, on behalf o f the Steering Committee and in
        collaboration with the Ministry o f Finance.

18.     The INDHUnitreports to the Steering Committee and to the Secretary General of
the Ministryo f Interior. It is headed by a national coordinator who originates, like most
o f the 15 staff members who compose the unit, from the Ministry o f Interior. Few of the
staff members o f the unit have prior development experience or first-hand knowledge
about participatory processes, inclusion and vulnerability issues. In addition, the current
roles and responsibilities o f each staff member are ill-defined. Since the launch of the
program, the unit has expended a disproportionate amount o f its resources towards
reporting upwards, thus giving insufficient attention to supporting implementation in the
field.   Some basic, yet essential, tasks such as translating and disseminating the
operations manuals to all key stakeholders have thus been delayed. The missions and
responsibilities described above are therefore not being systematically accomplished.

19.     The Bank team has expressed concerns over the weak capacity o f the INDHUnit
and the need to better delimitate the roles andresponsibilities of the unit and the SC. The
SC is well aware that the missions o f the unit need to be clarified and that staffing and
organization need to be strengthened.           It is also willing to delegate more of its
responsibilities to a strengthen INDHUnit. The SC hired a management consultant in
June to assist it. The conclusions o f the consultant are being reviewed by the SC and the
Ministry o f Interior is finalizing plans to reinforce the Unit.

Innovation Teams

20.     The INDHUnit is supported by eight Innovation Teams on the following topics:
rural, urban, income generating activities,           vulnerability, fiduciary management
(procurement and financial), monitoring and evaluation, communications, and capacity
development. These teams are composed by staff from the INDHUnit and from various
ministries or agencies with competencies inthe specific field. The teams have played an
instrumental role during the preparation o f the Bank project and in support of the
launching o f the INDH program.          They have contributed to the preparation o f the
operations manuals, to the design of the communications and capacity development
strategies and actionplans, and to the finalization of the M&E framework. It is expected
that the innovation teams which add the most value and are the most active will continue
to support the INDHUnit and Steering Committee.

                                             - 83 -

NationalExpertNetwork(Rbseau national d'experts)

21.    A short-list o fexperts andresource people hasbeenestablished at anational level.
It comprises research or training institutes, NGOs or private companies, consultants, as
well as individuals with a recognized expertise andthe willingness to contribute to INDH
on a pro bono basis. The resource people retained on this list can be hired by local,
provincial and regional committees to lend their support. Contractual arrangements and
fees are to be discussed between the hiring committee and the resource people selected.
The experts can: (i) technical assistance and training to INDHcommittees, local
                     provide
stakeholders and beneficiaries for the diagnostic o f constraints, the design o f projects or
their implementation; and (ii)evaluate or audit INDH financed projects. A similar
request for proposals i s to be carried out to create regional expert networks to enhance the
proximity o fthe experts to the local andprovincial committees.

National Observatory for Human Development (Observatoire National pour le
DbveloppementHumain)

22.    The Observatory is an independent body which has established in July 2006. It
has a Board of 24 members selected intuitu personae, from higher administration, civil
society (associations, private sector and media) and academia.           The Observatory i s
directly accountable to the Prime Minister. It expects to have a staff o f about a dozen
researchers in2007. Its mission is described inmainsection o f this report.

AuditingBodies:IGAT andIGF

23.    The IGAT is the auditing department o f the Ministry o f Interior while the IGF is
the auditing department o f the Ministryo f Finance. Both institutions will work together
to carry out financial audits as well as project and performance audits. The capacity of
these institutions and the qualityo f the audit plans proposed is evaluated inAnnex 7.

Conclusion

24.    The World Bank's assessment i s that the governance bodies at the local,
provincial and national levels have been well conceived and are functional. Over the
next few years, the composition o f the local, provincial and regional committees should
be revisited in order to allow for a healthy renewal o f members, a more systematic
approach to selecting civil society representatives, and a greater participation o f women
andyouth. Indeed, the members o f the DAS andthe facilitation teams play a key role in
the implementationo f INDH. It i s critical that they be given sufficient support (including
financial) and access to many training andpeer learning opportunities.

25.    At the central level, it is urgent to clarify the responsibilities o f the Steering
Committee and to strengthen the INDHUnit. This includes clarifying the organizational
and legal structure o f the unit as well as thejob descriptions and profiles, and identifying
highly competent and motivated staff with many years o f experience in CDD-type
programs.

                                            - 84 -



          Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

         NationalInitiativefor HumanDevelopmentSupportProject(INDH)


Approach

1.      A financial management capacity assessment o f INDH executing agencies took
place during project preparation through: (a) a series o f meetings held in Rabat with
representatives from the Ministries o f Finance and Interior; and (b) field visits conducted
ina sample number o f provinces/prefectures and municipalities andwith additional data
obtained through a questionnaire. In view o f the specific nature o f this project which is
largely implemented at the local level by project sponsors who are not always identified
beforehand, efforts have mainly focused on setting up procedures and criteria prior to
disbursements to ensure a sound management system, and to implement reporting and ex-
post control mechanisms to ensure proper use o f funds at the local level.

2.      Financial management and disbursement policies for the project are based on a
Program-based Approch (PBA) which the Bank has selected for this operation. In the
interest o f simplicity and lower transaction costs, this approach adopts national
procedures instead o f other parallel financing mechanisms normally used for project
financing. This approach includes: (a) pooling o f funds; and (b) a performance-based
disbursement mechanism with tranche releases based on progress indicators.

Flow of FundsSupportingINDHProgram's InstitutionalStructure

3.      Program Specifics.      Implementation o f INDH relies on a decentralized and
participatory process and local implementation o f sub-projects by project sponsors (such
as municipalities, NGOs and community associations) or by the decentralized executing
agencies (Walis o f regions and governors o f provinces/prefectures) themselves. Some
activities such as studies or technical assistance can also be carried out at the central level
by the eligible executing agencies (Prime Minister's office, Ministry o f Social
Development and Ministry o f Interior). In terms of fiduciary management and flow o f
funds, this institutional framework is characterized by two levels o f program
implementation: a central, regional and provincial level on the one hand, and a local level
on the other (Chart 1).

4.      At the Central, Regional and Province/Prefecture Level. The Prime Minister has
overall responsibility for the INDH special revenue account (SRA, Compte d 'affection
special). As such he allocates funds to the eligible executing agencies (Ministries o f
Interior and Social Development, Walis and governors) based on an annual disbursement
schedule by program. These funds are then executed according to applicable public
expenditure regulations, either through partnership agreements with project sponsors or
through direct payments to providers o f goods and services.

                                                                                                                                         - 85 -

5.                  At the Local Level.                                                         Project beneficiaries other than the executing agencies
implement projects using funds transferred from the executing agencies and regulated by
partnership agreements.                                                                 According to their legal structure (municipalities, NGOs,
associations, etc.), the project beneficiaries disburse funds according to applicable
regulations. In the case o f NGOs and associations, specific criteria and guidelines are
outlined inoperations manuals and related agreements.

                                                                                   Chart 1-Flow of Funds under INDH



                                                                          Governments




        Central Level                                                                                                                                SRA INDH
        PrimaryExecutingAgency: PrimeMinister                                                                                                              (TGR)
        ExecutingAgencies: Ministersof Soc. Dev. and Interior
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                  I


        Regional and Provincial Level
        ExecutingAgencies : Walis and
        Governors


           -
         Local Level
                                                  Option 1                                                      Communal SRA                                                      Bank Account                               Option 2
                                                                                                                                 +                                                              +
                                                  Project sponsors:                                                         (TGR)                                                                                            Project sponsors:
                                                  Municipalities                                                                                                                                                             NGO,Association or other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Entip
                                                                                                                         Providersof                                                    Providers o f
                                                                                                                           goods and                                                      goods and
            ----F                                Flow of funds
                                                 Delegatedfunds

                    SRA : Special RevenueAccount
                   TGR : Treasury General

  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................        ..............................................................

RiskAssessment

6.                    The complex institutional framework                                                                                                                       could                      translate              into                 substantial
implementation delays for the program. Allocation o f funds from the central level,
activity programming at the local and provincial level through a participatory approach,
and transfer o f funds to a large number o f local project sponsors without proven
experience all contribute to administrative bottlenecks within the traditional public
expenditure processing schedule which is already considered cumbersome4. However,
risk mitigation measures include: (a) specific INDHregulations which could streamline
cumbersome implementation procedures; (b) capacity development activities for relevant
staff in project management; and (c) a central monitoring system to cover all phases o f
the public expenditure process which will be overseen by the Fiduciary Innovation Team,
the terms o f reference o f which have beenreviewed by the Bank.



 Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) - Morocco - October 2003

                                             - 86 -

7.      The    Ministry o f      Interior    and its     deconcentrated    units (regions,
provinces/prefectures) have demonstrated an acceptable level of financial management
capacity with a moderate risk factor.       In support o f INDH implementation, specific
measureswould be required at the deconcentrated level by a clear definition of staff roles
and responsibilities and appropriate training inspecific program procedures.

8.      At the local level, the institutional and financial design of INDHtends to increase
the project's risk ratio.   The design elements include:       (a) innovative processes and
procedures, from project identification to implementation, and channeling o f funds to
project sponsors at the local level; (b) a large number o f project sponsors with different
legal characteristics located throughout the country; (c) financial management disparities
among project sponsors, even weak management capacity inthe case o f many NGOs; (d)
a large number o f sub-projects and small transactions; and (e) disbursements to project
sponsors by tranche based on progress reports and supporting documentation kept at the
local level.

9.      However, these risks will be mitigated by a series o f measures, currently enforced
or under finalization, before expenditures are incurred, as follows:       (a) definition o f
eligibility criteria for project sponsors (NGOs) and financial management and
disbursement procedures described inthe INDHManual of Fiduciary Procedures (MFP);
(b) capacity buildingactivities for the project sponsors, especially in the case o f NGOs;
(c) reporting arrangements for project sponsors from the local level to the provincial level
based on sample partnership agreements governing tranche releases; and (d) ex-post
control and audit mechanisms o f sub-projects.

10.     Inlight o f the previous analysis, the overall financial management project risk is
ratedbetween substantial and high.

Assessment of Current FinancialManagementArrangementsfor INDH

At the Central, Regional and Provinces/Prefectures levels

11.     Execution process. The executing agencies manage delegated funds by
programming activities, which results in allocating funds under budget lines defined
jointly by the accounting department and the Division o f Social Action (DAS). This
programming exercise results from a strategic planning process described in the
operations manuals which involves the population and the decision-making entities
(CLDH, CPDH and CRDH). These hnds are executed according to the decree no 2-05-
1017 o f July 19, 2005 which offers more flexibility than traditional public expenditure
procedures. Nonetheless, at project appraisal, the program under preparation for the
current year was witnessing significant delays.

12.     Human Resources. The executing agencies use existing structures for activities
they are in charge of, i.e., the existing procurement and accounting department for

                                                   - 87 -

expenditures through the Division o f Budget and Procurement' in cooperation with the
technical division and the DAS. Overall expenditure processing is handled by the
Treasury General o f the Kingdom (TGR) and its deconcentrated units and is based on
confirmed revenues and a simplified classification for supporting documentation. An
assessment       o f human and organizational                   capacities   at     the   regional       and
provinciallprefecture levels shows that: (a) accounting and budgetary activities are well
covered in the organizational set-up even if there are variations in the organizational
chart; and (b) although there are few managerial staff, the accounting staff is generally
well experienced and benefits from a support from the TGR network. However,
implementations weaknesses within INDHneed to be addressed through: (a) clarification
of responsibilities among DBM, DAS and the technical divisions in charge o f
programming, monitoring and evaluation, and management o f partnership agreements;
and (b) a specific training on INDHbudgeting and accounting procedures for DBM,D A S
andTreasury staff.

13.     Accounting System. The INDHaccounting system is based on public accounting
regulations applicable to state financial and accounting operations, governed by Royal
Decree No. 330-66 o f April 21, 1967. The executing agencies and accountants maintain
separate accounting systems, i.e., administrative accounting and treasury accounting.
The administrative accounting covers the financial commitments and records the
execution o f budget authorization listed in the INDH's special revenue account. The
Treasury accounting is maintained by the General Treasurer o f the Kingdom who
centralizes the financial transactions o f the state provincial treasurers. These two types o f
accounting systems are reconciled on a monthly and annual basis to compare
disbursements made by the executing agencies and the general accounting network. At
the end o f each fiscal year, statements o f balances and SRA commitments are prepared
by each executing agency andconsolidated centrally at the level o fthe PrimeMinister.

14.     Internal Controls. The internal controls system for public expenditures ensures
the separation o f functions at three different levels o f responsibility involving two actors:
(a) the executing agency for the administrative phases of expenditure commitments,
certification o f service rendered and issuance o f orders to pay; and (b) the General
Treasury and its deconcentrated units for ex-ante control o f expenditures at the
commitment stage and ex-ante control of expenditures at the payment stage and actual
payment. INDHregulations have introduced a significant measure o f flexibility at the
commitment stage o f expenditures: approval by the controller cannot be withheld unless
funds are not available and the qualified approval cannot entail suspension o f these
disbursements.

15.     Ex-post control and Audit. Ex-post control mechanisms are strengthened as a
consequence o f the reduced ex-post control and the complexity o f the program which i s
mainly executed at the local level by many implementing entities. Ex-post control and
audit arrangements for this program are designed at two different levels.



 Or Division of Human and Budgetary Resources for the Prkfectures d'arrondissernent. The designation of these
departmentddivisionscan changefrom a provinceiprefecture to another.

                                           - 88 -


16.    At the central level, INDH regulations require that activities undertaken in the
framework o f the main SRA are audited jointly by the Inspection General o f Territorial
Administrations from Ministry o f Interior (IGAT) and by the Inspection General o f
Finance (IGF). Inthis context, a working group including auditors from IGAT and IGF
has beencreated to focus on INDH.The audit arrangements are as follows:
    .  Annual audit of INDH accounts. The auditor will issue an opinion on the
       program's financial statements. These statements will cover all MDH activities
       executed through the main SRA and will consist o f financial statements o f all
       executing agencies. The scope o f work will include a representative sample o f
       sub-projects. In addition, the auditor will provide a report on internal controls.
    .  The first audit report sent to the Bank will cover fiscal year 2006.

       Ex-post controls. Inthe course o f each year and inaddition to the annual audit, an
       ex-post review focused on the risk areas will be conducted covering a
       representative sample o f sub-projects and INDHprocedures. This mechanism will
       ensure that INDH procedures and criteria are used appropriately and that the
       necessary corrective measures are implemented within a relatively short time
       frame. A summary of the findings will be made available for Bank teams. The
       scope o f the ex-post controls will be detailed in a note to be sent to the Bank not
    .  later thanNovember 15,2006.

       Annual performance audit. This audit will be conducted according to a
       performance audit manual to be transmitted to the Bank no later than December
       31, 2006. An annual audit report will be sent to the Bank no later than the end o f
       the month o f June following the covered year. The first performance audit report
       transmittedto the Bank will cover the year 2006.

17.    At the level of regions and provinces/prefectures, governors should oversee ex-
post reviews for a sample o f sub-projects. This exercise will also ensure that INDH
procedures are appropriately followed and enable implementation o f corrective measures,
as necessary. Moreover, this approach aims to increase the accountability o f executing
agencies inparallel to the reduced prior control. This internal audit will be carried out by
qualified individuals from the governor's available staff. The governor can also request
external assistance, as needed. The findings o f these reviews will be summarized in
quarterly progress reports sent from the CPDH to the Steering Committee. Support and
assistance will be provided from the central level through three measures: (a) terms o f
references and methodological guide produced by IGAT/IGF; (b) training session on ex-
post controls for governor's staff and (c) sharing o f experience and best practices among
provinces. The same approach can be adopted at the regional level.

18.    Moreover, INDH operations are subject to the judicial control o f the Court o f
Accounts. This highest oversight institution can conduct oversight missions on quality o f
management and control o fpublic expenditures.

                                           - 8 9 -


19.     Management Information System. An online computerized system has been
established in all regions and provinces/prefectures to monitor overall INDHoperations.
It is the responsibility o f the DAS to update the information system based on budget
information obtained from the DBM. The structure o f this system i s considered
acceptable by the Bank for the purposes o f financial reporting since it is capable o f
generating budget statements which respond to Bank requirements for producing interim
financial reports. However, this system is yet not fully operational and still lacks the
capability o f directly producing financial monitoring reports, Le., integration o f budgets
at the central level and the exhaustive update o f information based on accounting data.
Support measures should be developed to strengthen system implementation through: (a)
preparing a users' manual for DAS staff, as well as training these staff on how to use the
system; and (b) clarifying the flow o f information and responsibility for system updating
which is crucial for monitoring program implementation.

At theLocal Level: Project Sponsors

20.     Assessment of the financial management system at the local level. Since this
project will be implementedina participatoryway, the assessment o f the capacities o f the
project sponsors will be done by applying the guidelines in the operations manuals: (a)
procedures and criteria for satisfactory financial management (e.g., eligibility criteria for
NGOs, sound accounting practices, and disbursement mechanisms by tranche release
including reporting mechanisms); and (b) reporting mechanisms and ex-post reviews to
ensure the appropriate use o f funds transferred to the local level.

21.     Partnership Agreements.      Following the selection o f sub-projects, partnership
agreements are signed between the executing agencies and the project sponsors. These
agreements, which are a crucial contractual element, cover how disbursements will be
made, based on reports, reporting procedures, policies which regulate accounting and
record-keeping for ex-post reviews and audits, requirements for project bank account,
selection o f an accounting manager, and project performance indicators. The MFP which
details these processes was reviewed by the Bank during the appraisal mission and i s
considered to be an acceptable working document.            Additional information is still
required, such as the final version o f the standard partnership agreement which will be
attached to the operations manuals andthe preparation of the standardprogress report.

22.     Transfer of funds from executing agencies to project sponsors.           Funds are
transferred to project sponsors through tranche releases based on financial progress
reports. Supporting documents for these reports are retained by the project sponsors
duringthe periodprescribedinthe agreement, for a minimumo f the two years following
the completion o f the project, and are made available to auditors and Bank supervision
teams.

23.     Capacity of municipalities. Field visits to sample municipalities and communes
were complemented by data available from the General Directorate o f Local Communes
(DGCL) o f the Ministry o f Interior. Due to the generally weak management capacity of
municipalities, it will be essential to ascertain that the communes that are selected to

                                            - 90 -

implement sub-projects have sufficient capacity. Funds disbursed to communes will be
done in accordance with the accounting regulations o f municipalities (Decree no. 2-76-
576) to which the INDH SRA dispositions apply. However, local management entities
were neither trained nor adequately informed o f these regulations. Capacity-building
measures are thus required for the staff o f communes and Treasury staff.

ReportingandAuditingArrangementsfor INDH

24.     The Fiduciary Innovation Team. A multidisciplinary fiduciary innovation team,
composed o f representatives from the Ministry of Finance and Ministry o f Interior, was
created to strengthen financial management. This team has a facilitating and monitoring
role for fiduciary activities covering all stages o f the expenditure process, from budget
planning to ex-post reviews, and i s not intended to replace the existing financial
structures.

25.     Interim Financial Reports. Interim financial reports consolidated at the central
level for all executing agencies o f the SRA will be prepared every six months by the
INDH Unit, based on budget execution statements generated by the computerized
information system and submittedto the Bank no later than 45 days after the end o f the
reporting period. These reports will include cumulatively for each budgetary year
delegated funds, scheduled funds, expenditure commitments and payments: (a)
consolidated by budgetary line and (b) detailed for each executing agency. These reports
will represent the financial requirements for Bank-financed tranche releases.

26.     Annual external audit of INDH accounts. The audit arrangements described
above are acceptable to the Bank, provided that the program financial statements are
audited annually by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with terms o f
reference and auditing standards acceptable to the Bank. The auditors will issue an
opinion on the program's financial statements covering all activities executed through the
INDH SRA. The auditor's scope o f work will also include a representative sample of
sub-projects. An internal controls report will also be issued by the auditors. These reports
will be submitted to the BankbyJune 30 following the endo fthe auditedyear.

LoanDisbursementMechanisms

27.     Methods of disbursement. The project's disbursement mechanisms are adapted to
the Program-based Approach (PBA) adopted and rely on a report-based disbursement
mechanism by annual tranche release according to the financing needs o f the program
andwill be based on: (a) initialtranche release through anadvance granted at the time o f
loan effectiveness and at government's request; (b) subsequent annual tranche releases
based on a review o f program implementation by supervision missions and on
information from the progress reports; and (c) retroactive financing.

28.     Disbursementswill be made at the beginning o f each year against the following
items produced by the INDHUnit: (a) a forecast annual work plan; (b) an annual report;
and (c) bi-annual interim financial reports showing the status o f budget execution. The

                                                  - 91 -

  amount o f subsequent advances will be determined by: (a) the forecast INDHbudget for
  the concerned year; (b) an assessment o f the prior year's budgetary operations; (c)
  acceptable progress o f disbursement indicators; (d) the preparation o f acceptable interim
  financial reports; and (e) the review o f findings and recommendations from the program's
  audit reports. The disbursement indicators that have been agreed with the Steering
  Committee are inTable 1.

                                   Table 1:DisbursementIndicators


Component                         Indicators                        2008         2009            2010

Program                                                                                     ~~~~




                                                               80 percent of 85 percent      95 percent
                                                               committees
                                                               for the three
                                                               indicators

                    publication o n the INDH website o f all
                    procurement o f more than 2 millionDH)
               CLDH and CPDH are composed o f at least 20                                    20 percent
               percent o f women and 20 percent o f youth                                    women and
               (under the age o f 30) by 2010.                                               20% youth
               Auditors share audit results with the concerned 70 percent     80 percent     90 percent
               communities (CPDH meetings broadened to the     o f audits
               members o f the relevant CLDH)), immediately
               after the audit is concluded, through an oral
               presentation.
               Executive summaries o f financial audits are    70 percent o f 80 percent     90 percent
               made available to the public (INDH website or   audit reports
               other means) no later than 6 months after the
               audits are concluded.
               Total amount o f annual payments / total amount 40 percent     50 percent      60 percent
               o f annual commitments
               Total amount o f annual commitments from        70 percent     75 percent      80 percent
               available budget allocations / total amount o f
               annual available budget allocations (reported
               allocations,  consolidated    allocations, new
               payments allocations)
Rural          Beneficiary contributions to INDHprojects are   10percent      10percent       10percent


Urban                                                          10percent      10percent       10percent


Vulnerability                                                  40 percent     50 percent     60 percent



Cross-                                                         75 percent     85 percent     95 percent
Cutting

                                           - 92 -


29.     For any given year, GoM is expected to spend at least one year's advance for
program activities. However, if expenditures incurred amount to less than this, the
following year's advance will be adjusted accordingly. All withdrawal requests will be
supported by interim financial reports and will be reviewed by the project team leader
prior to disbursement approval. The disbursement letter sent to the Borrower will
describe these arrangements indetail.

30.     Transfer ofFunds to Government. The government will open a deposit account at
the Bank A1 Maghrib (BAM) for project h d s which will subsequently be transferred to
the general budget for the INDHspecial revenue account within the General Treasury of
Kingdom. The deposit account will be managed by the Direction o f Budget o f the
Ministry of Finance which will be responsible for preparing and submitting to the Bank
withdrawal requests for transfer o f funds. It will also ensure that: (i) requests are
                                                                         these
processed according to Bank guidelines and (ii)      are based on interim financial reports
prepared by the INDH Unit. Ministry o f Finance will be responsible for servicing the
debt associated withthe World Bank loan.

31.     Disbursement Category. In line with simplicity o f the PBA approach, INDH
activities will be covered by a specific disbursement category inthe Loan Agreement for
goods, works and services under the program, including institutional support for
capacity-building, operating expenses and partnership agreements with the implementing
entities.


                                 Chart 2 -Flow of Funds



                          b   BAMDeposit                  GeneralState
                                Account                  Budget(TGR)




Summary of UpcomingMeasures

32.     Support measures required for project launch under acceptable conditions prior to
project effectiveness are the responsibility o f the Steering committee through the INDH
Unitandare described below:

                                                - 93 -




                                     Measure                                   Deadline
 INDHManagementCapacity
 1. Clarification of roles and information flow between DBM, DAS and December 15,2006
 technical units (note to the executingagencies)
 2. Targeted training on INDHprocedures for DAS, DBM, accounting services January 31,2007




SupervisionPlanning

33.     The schedule and duration o f Bank supervision missions will be tailored to the
needs o f the INDH program which will largely be developed at the local level by
implementing agencies. Supervision missions during the first year will be strengthened
to support program implementation and will include prior review o f a representative
sample o f projects carried out at the local level. For the following years, supervision
missions will be carried out every six months.

                                           - 94 -


                          Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements

         National Initiative for Human Development Support Project (INDH)


General

1.      Procurement under the program will mainly consist o f sub-projects identified
according to a participatory approach and to be carried out by project sponsors that can
be communities, NGOs, municipalities, etc. Nevertheless, a substantial part o f
procurement will be carried out by the program's executing agencies: Governors o f
provinces and prefectures and Walis o f regions as sub-authorizing officers, but also the
Prime Minister's Office as the authorizing officer, and the Ministries of Social
Development and o f Interior.

2.      Inorder to provide a specialized support to the program, a Fiduciary Innovation
Team (FIT) has been set up at the central level. It i s headed by the Direction o f Budget o f
the Ministry o f Finance and composed o f representatives of the INDHUnit, the Treasury
General o f the Kingdom (TGR), the Inspection General of Finance (IGF) and the
Inspection General o f Territorial Administrations (IGAT). The FIT: (i)    makes proposals
to the Steering Committee on all fiduciary aspects of the program; (ii)ensures
implementation o f recommendations; and (iii)     provides support in resolving recurrent
problems in five fiduciary areas: budget preparation and execution; reporting, monitoring
and evaluation; ex-post internal control mechanisms; annual audits; and capacity
building. The FIT is also in charge o f preparing and updating a complete Manual o f
Fiduciary Procedures (MFP) on all financial management and procurement aspects o f the
program.

3.      Types and size of projects: For the rural and urban components, there are no
defined monetary thresholds for the size o f a project but the five-year allocations are
expected not to exceed US$600,000 for each rural commune and US$900,000 for each
urbanneighborhood. For the Provincial Competitive Fund,the limit for sub-projects is set
at US$23,000 a year (with financing possible over three years) and the limit for income
generating activities i s set at US$35,000. The average five-year budget for each region
under the vulnerability component i s US$13 million and the PCF allocation for each
province i s US$3.7 million.

4.      Potential applicable procurement methods: It i s expected that no international
competitive bidding will be necessary. Most activities will be carried out either through
shopping or community participation. At the regional or provincial level, a number o f
national competitive bids (NCB) will be carried out. Regarding consultants, most
activities will be subject to Selection Based on Qualification o f Consultants (CQS),
individual consultant selection and, ultimately, Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS). All o fthese methods are detailed inthe MFP.

                                           - 95 -


5.     Procurement o f goods not exceeding US$500,000 and works not exceeding
US$3,000,000 will be done through N C B (open competitive bidding) provided that:

       a)   The bidding document clearly explains the method o f bid evaluation
            procedures, contract award criteria andbidder qualification criteria.
       b)   Technical,     administrative and financial envelopes are publicly and
            simultaneously opened with the price read aloud and recorded.
       c)   Bids are evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in the bidding
            documents and quantifiedinmonetary terms.
       d)   Contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder following the criteria referred
            to in the preceding sub-paragraph (a), with the lowest evaluated responsive
            bid.

6.     Generally speaking, procurement under INDHis subject to the national legislation
described inthe Decree 2-98-482. However, the decree on INDH(Decree No 2-05-1017)
and the Instruction o f the Ministry o f Finance N o DCPC/No 69 o f August 17, 2005
regarding procedures o f execution and control o f expenses initiated within INDHbrought
a numbero fmodifications to procurement procedures applicable to INDH:

       a)   Services o f an amount not exceeding MAD 1 million (about US$lOO,OOO)
            can be awarded according to "limited competitive bidding" (LCB). The
            limits o f its usage set inthe decree No 2-98-482 (services which can only be
            executed by a limited number of firms due to their nature, complexity or
            importance o f equipment to be deployed and the obligation to invite a
            minimumo f 3 candidates) have been eliminated and the minimumtime for
            biddingo f 15 days has beenreduced to 10.
       b)   The aggregate annual threshold o f MAD 200,000 (US$20,000) for the usage
            o f shopping o f goods, works or services o f the same nature has been
            eliminated.

7.     Therefore, goods and works not exceeding US$120,000 will be procured by
shopping addressed to qualified and registered firms. This shopping procedure will
comply with the N C B procedures as described above and the following provisions:


       a)   Prior to the launch o f any process, and at the beginning o f each year, a call
            for expressions o f interest is published in at least two national newspapers,
            one in French and one in Arabic according to the Manual o f Fiduciary
            Procedures. A database of qualified firms is then established, maintained
            and made public.

       b)   At the launch o f each process, at least six qualified firms inthe field o f the
            said process and which have responded to the said call for expressions o f
            interest are invited to submit a bidand.

                                              - 96 -


        C)     The results o f the said process including: (i) description o f the contract,
                                                             the
               (ii) nameofthebidders; (iii) pricesasreadaloudatthebidopening
                   the                            the
               session; (iv) the name o f the bidder awarded with the contract; and (v) the
               amount o f the awarded contract are made public and posted inthe offices o f
               the entity in charge o f the procurement process and maintained in the
               records for the needs o f audits.

8.      Goods and works not exceeding US$50,000 may be procured according to
shopping procedures. Goods and works and services of an amount not exceeding
US$40,000 provided byproject sponsors within a partnership agreement may beprocured
according to community participation in procurement methods as detailed in the MFP.
Goods and works not exceeding US$lOO,OOO may be procured by direct contracting. The
usage of agreed upon standard biddingdocuments is required for all contracts.

9.      Procedures to be followed by NGOs for procurement o f goods, works and
consultant services are detailed in the agreement between the NGO and the
province/prefecture or region. The procedures and standard agreement presented in the
MFP areto be used.


10.     Selection and employment o f consultants will be carried out in accordance with
the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment o f Consultants by the World
BankBorrowers" dated May2004. Short lists o fconsultants for services estimated to cost
less than US$lOO,OOO      per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. The said
short list o f national consultants may be composed o f (but not limited to) consultants of
the "Network of Experts" established by the Borrower and published on its website.
Universities, government research institutions, training institutions may be hired in
accordance with paragraph 1.11 and NGOs may be selected in accordance with the
paragraph 3.16 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

11.     Consultant services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO may be awarded by
Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications (paragraph 3.7) or by Selection o f
Individual Consultants in accordance with the provisions o f Section V o f the Consultant
Guidelines.

12.     Single Source Selection may be used up to US$300,000 for contracts with public
enterprises for technical assistance to the implementation o f sub-projects and up to
US$50,000 for all other consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.10
to 3.13 o f Consultant Guidelines.

13.     Prior review by the Bank In addition to the prior review o f all goods and works
contracts above the N C B thresholds mentioned above, the following are also subject to
prior review:

        a)     All goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent or more than US$
               100,000 procuredby direct contracting.

                                             - 97 -

        b)   The first three contracts for goods and the first three contracts for works.

14.     In addition to the prior review o f all consultant contracts equivalent or above
US$200,000 and o f all individual consultants contracts equivalent or above US$50,000
the following are also subject to prior review:

        a)   All consultant contracts for consultants selected by single source and
             estimated to cost the equivalent or more than US$50,000;

        b)   The first three contracts for consultant services regardless o f their estimated
             cost.

Capacity Assessment

15.     Given the large number o f executing agencies (three central administrations and
close to 70 provinces and prefectures), an assessment o f the capacity o f a sample o f
executing agencies to implementprocurement actions for the project was carried out from
June to October 2006. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for
implementing the program and the interaction between different structures in charge o f
execution, control and payment. The following issues regarding the procurement within
the program have been identifiedand corrective measures are proposed:

16.     Procurement by the central administrations (Prime Minister's office, Ministries o f
Social Development and o f Interior) will be seldom, but they are critical to the success o f
the program. Contracts will be identified in a procurement plan. The procurement plan
will be part o f the annual work plan submitted to the Bank's review annually. The
decision about the prior / ex-post review by the Bank o f each contract will be clearly
indicated inthe agreed uponprocurement plan.

17.     Provinces and prefectures are the main executing agencies o f the program.
Although the humancapacity is considered as satisfactory, INDHwill create a substantial
change in the working methods and an increase in the traditional work load at the
provincial level caused by the new bottom-up approach, the new budgetary execution
procedures and the highcost o ftransactions of managingnumerous small projects inpoor
remote areas. So far, there are no clear work flows and share o f responsibilities set at the
provincial level. Roles, responsibilities and work flows o f different divisions at the
provincial level with regardsto INDHwill be clarified by end December 2006.

18.     NGOs are potential project sponsors. Prior to awarding a project to be executed
by an NGO, a fiduciary capacity assessment will be carried out. This process, and the
objective criteria on which it i s based, are made explicit inthe MFP.

19.     So far, provinces are reluctant to transfer financial resources to NGOs and prefer
to execute projects by their own means, on behalf o f NGOs. This i s a transitional
situation. In the future, the majority o f projects are to be executed by the NGOs.
Procurement obligations o f each NGO are defined in the MFP and shall be clearly

                                                    - 98 -

indicated in the partnership agreement signed between the province/prefecture and the
NGO.

20.     Municipalities are not the executing agencies o f the program, but are part o f the
eligible project sponsors. While in rural municipalities, procurement capacity i s very
limited, in urban communes, it is sufficient in view o f the nature and size o f potential
projects to be carried out by these entities within INDH. As for any project sponsor, a
capacity assessment will be carried out, and in case o f lack o f capacity, a delegated
project manager (MuCtre d 'ouvruge de`le`gue`) will be designated in the partnership
agreement to be signed betweenthe Province and the Commune.

21.      One o f the goals o f the INDHprogram is to act as leverage to other sources o f
funding. The leverage, althoughbeneficial, shouldbe clearly defined inorder to: (i)               avoid
the potential deviation from "expansion o f access to infrastructure projects" towards
major infrastructure projects to be covered under other programs; and (ii)              avoid the use o f
INDH funds according to procedures that do not comply with the INDH program.
Consequently, all projects to be co-financed should respond to INDH eligibility criteria,
and either all donors to a specific project agree to follow the INDH procedures or the
program contribution to the said project should be isolated and respond to all INDH
requirements. A note on this topic will be sent to provinces and prefectures by the INDH
Unitbeforethe endof2006.

22.     Delay in budget execution is a generic issue in Morocco and the assessment
shows that INDH is no exception. However, budget flexibility has been introduced in
INDH which should contribute to reducing delays and bottlenecks, in particular for
procurement processes which are launched at the end o f the year. This flexibility i s linked
to the fact that budgets allocated within INDH are: (i)global; (ii)                determined for the 5-
year period and (iii)      automatically carried over to the next year. Communicating these
new measures and encouraging change o f work methods will be essential. Finally,
procurement planning will be used to monitor delays. For this, provincial staff will need
to be trained on how to carry out procurement planningand the INDHUnit will be tasked
with ensuring the plansare enforced.

23.      Consequently, building capacity o f different actors through various channels
(training, manuals and communication tools) is o f utmost importance. Ensuring that
sufficient attention and financial means are allocated to capacity building is essential to
the success o f INDH.

24.     The decree No 2-05-1017 on INDHhas changed the prior control mechanisms o f
the Ministry o f Finance on procurement and payment: the Controller o f Commitment o f
Expenditure (CED) or the Accountant (for communes6) is required to approve the
authorizing officer's commitment proposal (including procurement procedures) within 3
days instead o f 15. Only if resources are not available, the controller may reject a
proposal o f commitment. In all other cases he "approves with comments" (visa uvec
observation). Responding to the controller's comments is not mandatory for the (sub-)

 Inthe cases of communes, the Accountant is inchargeof procurement control andpayment.

                                                    - 99 -

authorizing officer and absence o f correction o f deviation by the said officer will not
cause the automatic rejection o f payment requests by the Accountant who has 10 days to
proceed with payment. But any such deviations will be evaluated through ex-post reviews
and audits and the executing agencies will be held accountable for any non-compliance.
The reduction o f maximum delays for procurement reviews by the controllers is
considered reasonable considering the average type and size o f contracts within INDH
andthe availability o f a team at CED level. Itmust be notedthat, inadditionto the above,
the contract approval mechanisms by the superior authority are maintained within
INDH.7

25.      The ex-post control mechanism foreseen by the INDHDecree is ajoint audit to be
carried out by the Inspection General o f Finance (IGF) o f the Ministry of Finance andthe
Inspection General o f Territorial Administrations (IGAT) o f the Ministry o f Interior. The
terms o freference ofthe audit have been reviewed by the Bank and deemed satisfactory.

26.       Given the number o f projects to be carried and monitored at the provincial level,
it is o f great importance to have in place an ex-post internal control mechanism.
Proximity o f the internal controller to projects is essential to accompany the actors. This
ex-post internal controller may be designated by the CPDH and may be the CED, a
qualified staff from the Province or a consultant. IGF and IGAT will provide standard
terms o f reference for an ex-post control mechanism at the provincial level and ensure the
technical supervision of the provincial ex-post control systems. IGF and IGAT will also
carry out ex-post reviews.

27.      There i s currently no specific information about procurement in the management
information system. While this is not a major issue for most projects (of small amounts
executed by project sponsors), the lack o f information on major procurement activities,
especially under the Vulnerability or PCF components could be a problem. It i s important
that a current database o f contracts above US$50,000 be available, which would include
information about the procurement method, the name o f the contractor, and the
procurement execution planning and progress. This information is valuable in terms o f
monitoring and evaluation but also for the Bank supervisionmissions and auditors.




'Contracts below US$200,000 at the provincial level are signed and approvedby the Governor; above this threshold,
they are approvedby the Central Administration.Contracts below US$200,000 at the municipal level are signedby the
Presidentof the Commune and approved by the Governor. Contracts between US$200,000 and US$l,OOO,OOO carried
out by communes are approved by the Wali and contracts above US$l,OOO,OOO         are approved by the Central
Administration.

                                                  - 100-



 28.       While the overall program risk for procurement is considered average, activities
 are required to ensure adequate implementation o f procurement and to mitigate risks, as
 detailed inthe table below:

I                                                           I                   I                 I
 ProcurementRiskMitigationActions                            Responsible         Deadline
 Procurement Planfor the central administrations submitted      INDHUnit          January 31,2007
 to the Bank for amroval

 Roles, responsibilities and work flows between divisions at MinistryofInterior  December 15,2006
 provincial level clarified

 Note about INDHco-financing conditions disseminated to         INDHUnit         December 31,2006
 all parties

 Training o fprocurement officers incharge o f NDHon            INDHUnit          March31,2007
 procurement procedures

 Terms of Reference regarding ex-post control mechanisms        IGF/ IGAT        December 31,2006
 at provincial level

 Information system o f INDHupdatedto include                   INDHUnit         December 31,2006
 procurement information

 Procurementplanningandfrequency ofprocurementsupervision
 29.       Procurement plans should be prepared at the beginningo f each year and updated
 bi-annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
 improvements in institutional capacity by each executing agency. Prior to awarding a
 contract by any of central administration executing agencies, a procurement plan should
 be submitted and found acceptable by the Bank; while province and prefectures should
 keeptheir procurementplans inthe records for the audit and ex-post control purposes.

 30.       Inaddition to the priorreview supervisionto be carriedout from Bankoffices, the
 capacity assessment has recommendedtwo supervision missions to visit the field to carry
 out ex-post review ofprocurement actions.

                                           - 101-


                       Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis

         National Initiative for Human Development Support Project (INDH)


1.      This annex analyzes: (i)the justification for financing INDH given its
characteristics as a community-based development (CBD) program and (ii) economic
                                                                              the
implications o f the different program components and the approach taken to ensure cost-
efficient outcomes. Given the demand-driven nature o f the projects financed by INDH,
and therefore the uncertainty in terms o f the structure o f the portfolio o f projects, the
analysis can not assess ex-ante the potential welfare impacts o f INDH.

Justification of Government Financing

Financing basic infrastructure and social services
2.      Investing in access to basic infrastructure and social services is a way for a
country to reduce social risks and build human capital. This in turn increases social
capital, productivity, and growth. Government interventions in social sectors are
necessary to improve efficiency and equity and maximize positive spillovers from such
infrastructure and services. Regardingefficiency, people in areas with highpoverty levels
do not have the means to pay for basic infrastructure such as water, sanitation, electricity,
roads or services such as health, social protection, or education. This i s particularly true
for the most vulnerable among the poor (women, handicapped, elderly people). The role
o f government is therefore to subsidize the production o f infrastructure or the
consumption o f services, by financing part o f the production cost. Regarding equity,
markets do not guarantee an equitable distribution o f income and access to basic services.
Hence, governments must devise mechanisms to ensure that low-income and vulnerable
groups have access to basic infrastructure and services.

Financing incomegenerating activities and capacity development
3.      The rationale for financing other interventions such as income generating
activities or capacity development i s less obvious, since the investment will only cover a
limitednumber ofbeneficiaries, as opposed to the whole community inthe case o fpublic
goods. A legitimate question is therefore why does the private sector not engage inthese
activities if there are positive returns for all participants? The poor are subject to
liquidity constraints that make upfront investments impossible, which in turn are
necessary for later benefits. Capital markets fail as they preclude the poorest households
from acquiring debt to finance investments, and inparticular human capital formation. In
addition, research has shown that coordination problems (e.g. among the professionals in
a certain economic sector), lack o f trust (especially between the informal and the formal
sector o f the economy, but also between citizens and local governments), information
asymmetry (e.g. between a producer and a trader), and the absence o f mechanisms to
enforce contracts can lead to situations where socially optimal collective actions are not
undertaken.    Therefore, governments have a role in facilitating coordination and the

                                                    - 102 -


formation o f human and social capital, which will have positive spillovers for the whole
community.

4.      However, these conditions are not sufficient to justify government intervention.
Indeed, cost-effectiveness i s necessary to make sure that the cost o f correcting the market
failure is not higher than the resulting social benefits o f access to services.

Financingparticipatory approaches
5.       International experience suggests that, if appropriately managed, community-
based, participatory approaches can be a cost-effective mechanism. The World Bank has
acquired considerable experience with participatory development projects.' Out o f a total
o f 847 CBD-type projects implemented between 1989 and 2003, the Bank has recently
evaluated a representative sample o f 84 projects.' According to World Bank ratings at
project completion, the overall performance o f participatory projects has beenbetter than
that o f other projects over the period considered. However, success in achieving
quantitative goals, such as infrastructure built, employment generated, access to health
facilities and schools, has been greater than on qualitative goals, e.g. communitycapacity
enhancement and training quality. Another argument brought forward is cost-
effectiveness. If the implementation o f participatory projects required considerable
upfront costs for governments, these were overcompensated by lower costs for
infrastructures because o f the increase in social capital and the empowerment o f
communities. This is confirmed by other research demonstrating that participatory
approaches have lower unit costs in all sectors and across all countries than traditional
approaches, and that they tend to increase access to and quality o f social services versus
comparison groups, which has resulted in most cases in greater utilization o f basic
services."

6.       However, critics have argued that participatory approaches have a negative
substitution effect on traditional public service systems. The answer to this argument is
twofold. First, the expenditures under the participatory approach o f INDHare negligible
compared to the total social sector budget o f the Government o f Morocco (see 1I.e).
Second, ifINDHproves to be more cost-effective than traditional line ministry financing
and service provision, then this substitution effect i s actually desirable and should be
promotedby reallocating resources from these traditional programs.

7.       There remains the possibility o f crowding out private financing by subsidizing
certain infrastructure and services. To minimize this considerable risk, INDHguidelines
for all projects under the rural and the urban component prohibit 100 percent subsidies
and require from the project beneficiaries that they have a clear financing plan for
operating and maintaining the infrastructure or service financed under INDH.This should

 Three elements define participatory approaches: giving responsibilitiesto local communities (project conception,
implementation,supervision and evaluation, operationand maintenance or any combinationof the previous), learning-
by-doingat the local level, addressingall problemsencounteredat the communitylevel (multi-sector approach).
  OED 2005: World Bank Operations Evaluation Department, "The Effectiveness of World Bank Support for
Community-Based and-Driven Development", 2005 (http://www.worldbank.ordoedcbdcdd)
loRawlings and Van Domelen, 2001, cited in PAD "Morocco: Support for the Social DevelopmentAgency Project",
(2002,23947-MOR).

                                               - 103 -

allow only those projects to be subsidized that can actually recover a share o f their future
costs.

8.      Finally, the risk o f private sector substitution is partly compensated by the
crowding-in effect of INDH.As indicated in Table 1 below, the priority given to INDH
by the Government o f Morocco has already allowed for the mobilization o f funds from
line ministries, government agencies and local governments (regional and provincial
councils, municipalities), as well as from national and international NGOs, foundations
(most o f which are partly or wholly financed on private funds) and private sector firms.
For the 2005 priority program, the contribution o f partners amounted to almost twice the
total o f INDHgrants, even ifit must be noted that government institutions played a major
role as they could be mobilized faster to support INDH funded projects. This
participation as well as the direct involvement o f the private sector will increase in the
coming years. Private sector firms already play a significant role in delivering basic
infrastructure and services such as water and sanitation as part o f their contractual
arrangements with municipalities. The INDH program provides additional impetus and
financing to achieve universal access standards to water, electricity, and sanitation.

    Table 1:Compositionoffundingfor projectsfinancedunder INDH(MoroccanDirhams)

    I              2005 PriorityProgram                IAmount(MAD)      I  Share(%)     I
     Total amount (1104 projects)                         666,750,279         100%
     INDHgrants                                           240,262,929          36%
     Partner contributions                                426,487,350          64%
     Ofwhich contributions from:
       Government (departments, agencies, etc.)           341,189,880          80%
       Nationalfoundations                                55,443,356           13%
       Municipalities                                     21,324,368            5%
       InternationalNGOs                                   8,529,747           2%


EconomicImplicationsof INDHProjectComponents

Maximizing social rates of return

9.       As discussed above, most o f the projects financed under INDHdo not qualify for
a standardcost-benefit analysis that determines the net present value o f the project, since
there will be no directly quantifiable revenue streams to compare to the costs generated.
This applies to all infrastructures, social and economic services, capacity-building, and
social protection projects under the rural, the urban, the vulnerability and the cross-
cutting component o f INDH.Nevertheless, the performance interms o f welfare gains will
depend upon a number o f key factors as discussed below.

                                           - 104-



     a) Targetingo fbeneficiaries

10.     INDHhas established as its main objective to fight poverty, vulnerability, and
social exclusion inrural and urban Morocco. Targeting the poorest, most vulnerable and
most excluded people i s o f highest importance to achieve this objective. The underlying
economic argument is that social rates o f return, hence the justification for government
intervention, decreases when levels o f income, social and human capital rise. The
Government o f Morocco is aware o f this causality and has designed two geographically
targeted components (or 50 percent o f the total program budget) to focus on
approximately 400 rural villages and 250 urban neighborhoods. The selection o f rural
villages has been based mainly on the poverty rate as available inthe poverty maps.

11.     For the urban component, a pre-selection o f cities was made, based on population
size and administrative criteria. Selection o f eligible neighborhoods within these cities
was made based on a combination of: (i)         social exclusion indicators (access to basic
services, unemployment, illiteracy, and housing conditions); (ii)a determination on
whether to select neighborhoods inwhich other public programs are on-going or planned,
or not; and (iii) additional indicators identified by each provincial authority according to
its local specificities. The Bank team reviewed all the available information on the urban
targeting and visited neighborhoods in Casablanca, Marrakech, and Rabat during project
preparationto determine the validity o f the targeting method.

12.     While the 250 selected neighborhoods are not necessarily the poorest or the most
socially excluded in absolute terms at the national scale, they are the poorest or most
socially excluded in relative terms, within each o f the cities selected upfront to host the
program. Some provincial authorities have emphasized the objective o f providing rapid
and high-impact interventions for the benefit of the populations o f the most socially
excluded urbanneighborhoods andhave targeted smaller neighborhoods within the cities.
Others have emphasized the objective o f supporting the design o f local development
frameworks through participatory processes, as a way to improve the alignment between
various sector investments, and have thus targeted much larger neighborhoods. Some
cities have adopted a combination o f both approaches. Inthis sense, the urban targeting
approach strikes a balance betweenthe two INDHprogram objectives.

13.     The vulnerability component concentrates on an identified group o f individuals to
ensure maximum impact, namely homeless people, people living in specialized
institutions and all those on the verge o f falling into one o f these situations (orphaned
children, at-risk youth, single mothers, handicapped and elder people etc.). Given the
nature of the activities to be financed under this component (improving services offered
by NGOs and governmental institutions to support social and economic inclusion o f
vulnerable groups) and the strict definitions on eligible groups set out in the operations
manual, it is expected that only the most vulnerable will benefit from this component.

14.     The Provincial Competitive Fund i s however potentially available to all NGOs,
cooperatives, and communes o f the country, regardless o f the levels o f poverty and

                                            - 105 -


exclusion o f their population. Thoughjustified as a way to mainstream INDHgovernance
mechanisms in the country, there is a considerable risk that the impact of this Fundwill
be lessened by the lack o f poverty targeting. To minimize this risk, guidelines with strict
eligibility and selection criteria o f beneficiaries have been elaborated in the operational
manual. During the selection process, approvals will be heavily weighted towards
projects that demonstrate that they are targeting a particularly poor or vulnerable group.

    b) Selection criteria

15.      A defining characteristic o f INDH is the fact that the choice o f activities is
determined by the communities themselves. However, given the limited resources o f the
INDHprogram, it is key to define and set priorities for the selection of INDHprojects.
This is all the more important since communities tend to be highly heterogeneous,
community leaders' preferences may not be consistent with average preferences, and the
more vocal members inthe community (usually the better-off) may try to capture a larger
share o f resources than those, poorer, who need them most.

16.      The allocation o f resources, however, i s a delicate issue, especially since INDH
has no set quota for the different types o f projects (infrastructure, services, income
generating activities, capacity-building). However, the INDHoperations manuals contain
a list o f eligibility criteria to improve the efficiency and equity in the selection o f
projects, the most important being:
    .....Participation inthe project o f beneficiaries o fthe project.
         Value-for-money approach: adapted and efficient solution to the problem
         identified.
         Financial or in-kindcontribution o fproject initiators (10 percent minimum).
         Sufficient (technical, organizational, accounting and financial management)
         capacity o f the project team to implementthe project.
         Appropriate and credible financing plan for operations and maintenance o f the
         project.

    c) Unit cost analysis

17.      As mentioned above, there is international evidence that participatory approaches
deliver cost-efficient results compared to more traditional government programs. The
World Bank has recently carried out impact evaluations for projects based on
participatorymechanisms, such as the Egypt Social Fundor the Yemen Social Fund. The
evaluations include estimates o f the unit costs for different types o f projects. Though this
preliminary data will have to be confirmed with regard to accuracy and comparability,
some interesting results emerge, such as the high cost for training and capacity building
as well as micro credit projects (Table 2, Table 3). These costs also serve as a first basis
for assessingthe potential cost-efficiency o f INDHprojects.

                                            - 106-




     Table 2: Egypt Social Fundfor Development Impact Evaluation Study 2003 (Phase 1,
                                      Transition, Phase 2)

             Type                     Total              Number of           Average Cost
              of                   Expenditure          Beneficiaries       per Beneficiary
         Sub-project            (Thousands US$)           (NGOs)                 (US$)
  Education                           32,095              253,859                21,80
  Micro credit                        50,015               32,837               262,57
  Training                            7,984                9,95 1                138,31
  NGOUpgrading                        4,427                  297               2,571.02


         Table 3: Yemen Social Fundfor Development Impact Evaluation Study 2003


             Type                    Average              Number of          Average Cost
              of                  Cost per Project    Direct Beneficiaries   per Beneficiary
          Sub-project                  (US$)              per Project             (US$)
  Environment                                104.226                14.348               7.26
  Roads                                       93,256I                9,630I              9,68
  Health                                      53,026I                4,444 1            11,93




18.     Statistics on unit costs for INDHprojects are not yet available, even ifmore than
75 percent o f 2005 INDHprojects were implemented at project appraisal. However, the
Social Development Agency (ADS) has carried out INDH-type projects with a
community-driven approach since 2002, in part with World Bank funding. Unit cost
estimates for certain basic infrastructure and capacity building projects are shown in
Table 4. While it is difficult to establish comparisons with international project data from
Egypt or Yemen, it is at least possible to measure them against unit costs per beneficiary
for standard line ministry projects.

19.     The Ministry for Infrastructure and Transport indicates unit costs o f US$27,300
per km for unpaved, all weather roads (6 meters large) and o f US$12,650 per km for
unpaved, dry weather only roads (2006), while the World Bank financed Second National
Program for Rural Roads estimates the average cost for all weather roads at US$44,150
(2005). According to the Ministry o f Interior and the National Drinking Water Agency
(Office National de Z'Eau Potable, ONEP), the cost per household for a water connection
amounts to around US$220 inrural areas andUS$350 inurban areas, while an individual
sanitation connection in urban areas costs on average US$340. Clearly, these figures are

                                            - 107-

not directly comparable to those collected from ADS, since the type and scope o f works
may vary as well as the accompanying social measures. However, the cost ranges for the
first A D S water androad projects indicate that community-driven approaches inMorocco
are promising interms o ftheir cost-efficiency.

   Table4: ADS unit costsfor basicinfrastructureand ca acity-building projects (2003-2005,
                                      ADS calculations)'P




      connection, per




20.     One approach to ensure greater cost-efficiency o f INDHprojects could have been
to establish ceilings in terms o f unit costs. However, given the lack o f prior knowledge
about the types o f selected projects, this approach could have biased allocations to
"cheaper" projects that have little impact in terms o f social welfare. With the
accumulation of micro-level data about projects, the flexible stance chosen should be
completed over time by more stringent cost standards to optimize allocation o f resources.

    d) Institutional capacity

21.     Well-trained, high-quality, and motivated actors, good management at local,
provincial, regional and central levels, and appropriate information and knowledge
sharing systems are pillars o f success for any participatory program. Carrying out a
village or neighborhood assessment, organizing a participatory diagnostic including all
groups o f society, conceiving, preparing, and implementing projects, are specialized tasks
that require training and technical skills. Managers and decision makers o f INDH will
also have to adapt and adjust the operational framework as new information on the first
projects, their successes and shortcomings, becomes available. Finally, detailed
monitoring and evaluation and continuous learning is required, and will rely on data
gathered on project activities, unit costs, and candid beneficiary assessments.



  Exchangerateon December Is`, 1 MAD=0,10537 US$.
                           2005:

                                                    - 108 -

22.      Government o f Morocco has undertakenmajor efforts intraining its civil servants
at all levels for the new approaches and activities o f INDH.In2005 and 2006, 1,000 civil
servants at the provincial, regional and national level and some 5,000 more members o f
local committees and facilitation teams were trained. Capacity development (CD) efforts
will continue in a sustained manner throughout the life o f the program. C D planswill be
designed at the provincial level in order to take into account specific C D needs, and
complemented by activities that will continue to be managed at a national or regional
level. An important component of these plans will be peer learning. In addition, the
current integrated information system provides accurate and timely data and will be
improved over time so that the overall M&E framework is fully reliable. Monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms are also being strengthened through the creation o f the National
Observatory for HumanDevelopment.

    e) Financial sustainability

23.      To ensure the sustainability o f the INDHinitiative, it will be necessary to find an
efficient mix o f private and public funds. Available public hnds might be constrained by
the availability o f foreign assistance and effective reallocations from other social sector
budgets. In 2003, the Moroccan government spent around MAD 2.75 billion, or 16
percent o f its investment budget (MAD 17.2 billion) inthe social sectors12 (out o f which
4 percent on health and 9 percent on education), which represents around 0.65 percent o f
GDP.I3 The annual INDH budget over the period 2006-2010 (MAD 1 billion) will
amount to approximately 0.5 percent ofthe country's GDP in2003, but almost 75 percent
o f the 2003 investment budget in the social sectors. The yearly level o f expenditures
could be maintained after 2010, if reallocations are made from other budgets and if
foreign aid continues. This will only be possible ifINDHproves to be more successful at
alleviating poverty, vulnerability and exclusion than traditional programs carried out by
line ministries. Therefore, mechanisms must be devised early on to transform the
participatory INDH approach into a generally accepted community based development
and planning tool.

24.      Private resources will depend on the availability and efficiency o f cost-recovery
mechanisms that have been embedded inthe INDHproject design. So far, the financial or
in-kind contribution o f beneficiaries has been set at 10 percent o f the INDH grant
amount. This i s in line with the requirement o f other projects or agencies such as ADS.
Compliance with this requirement will be monitored carefully.

25.      It is highly unlikely that INDHprojects will generate additional fiscal revenues
that might allow additional public funding, since most o f the income groups targeted are
exempt o f taxation. Therefore, the fiscal impact o f INDH is negligible for the financial
sustainability o fthe project.




  This includes the expenses of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Youth and the Ministry of
Employment, SocialAffairs and Solidarity (source: Annuaire Statistiquedu Maroc, 2004).
l3Source :Annuaire StatistiqueduMaroc, 2004

                                          - 109-


Ensuringprofitability of income generating activities

26.    The only type o f INDHproject that qualifies for a cost-benefit analysis is income
generating activities that receive direct financial support. The economic evaluation o f
these projects has been built into the project design. The operations manual requires
proposals to include a viable business plan with estimated cash flows demonstrating the
financial profitability o f projects. Technical feasibility studies are necessary for some
projects, while all have to perform a simple market analysis, demonstrate demand for the
product or service that the activity will generate and submit a simple business plan.
Learning and sharing information from the first projects will be important to improve the
selection process inlater years o f INDH.

                                          - 110-


                           Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues

         NationalInitiativefor HumanDevelopmentSupport Project(INDH)

1.      This annex provides a summary o f recommended measures presented in the
Environmental Management Plan (Annex 10 A) and the Resettlement Policy Framework
(Annex 10B) developed duringthe preparation phase o fthe project.

2.      Sub-projects and activities financed by the INDH program are identified within
the framework o f a participative process during the implementation o f the program.
Therefore, the most appropriate environmental and social safeguards approach is to
establish simplified environmental and social assessment procedures for sub-projects,
identify potential adverse impacts and specify best practices and appropriate mitigation
measures.

        Annex 10A: SafeguardPolicyIssues-EnvironmentalAspects

Objectiveofthe EnvironmentalManagementPlan(EMP)

3.      The objective o f the EMP is to ensure that INDH activities are compliant with
both the Moroccan environmental policies and World Bank guidelines. The EMP will
serve as the operations manual for the management o f environmental issues arising from
INDHsub-projects financedwithin the framework o fthe Bankproject. Inthis respect, it
will facilitate the implementation o f the evaluation criteria specified in the operations
manuals (OM) for the urban, rural, vulnerability components as well as for the OM for
income generating activities and the provincial competitive fund: "The sub-project does
not pose any threat to the environment. Ifit does, mitigation measures need to be clearly
identified".

4.      These measures naturally fit inthe participative process guidingthe INDHand are
supported by an environmental monitoring & evaluation system and a traininghapacity
buildingprogram for environmental management. Thus, the EMP:

        Presents Morocco's      legal,  political   and administrative framework       for
        environmentalmanagement governing INDHactivities as well as Bankpolicies to
    .   be taken into account.

        Analyses positive and negative potential environmental impacts, including
   .    potential cumulative impacts;

        Describes the proposed environmental assessment procedures to identify, prevent,
   .    reduce or mitigate negative impacts o f activities;

        Explains the monitoring and evaluation systems, based on existing INDH
        systems, to monitor and evaluate the impacts o f sub-projects and activities;

                                           - 111-
    .   Presents an awareness raising, training and capacity building program in
    .   environmental management at each level o f the INDH;

        Estimates the cost o f EMP implementation in a budget that is included in the
        overall INDHbudget.

5.      Furthermore, EMP annexes provide additional information such as the relevant
legislation; the environmental datasheet, the terms o f reference for environmental
assessments; samples o f good practices and standard mitigation measures; and finally, an
awareness, training and capacity buildingprogram.

EnvironmentalAssessment Procedures

6.      Inorder to ensure that the environmental aspects identified above are taken into
account duringthe implementation o f INDHsub-projects and activities, the EMP outlines
the environmental assessment procedures in two phases: (i)       a decision on eligibility o f
activities based on non-eligibility criteria resulting from unacceptable environmental or
social impacts and (ii) environmental screening according to appropriate procedures.
                       an

EligibilityCriteria

7.      Most o f the activities identified within the framework o f the INDH components
are eligible to INDH financing, but it i s possible that some may not comply with
Moroccan policies or Bank guidelines (environmental and social safeguard policies
above). Such activities will not be eligible for Bank financing. Non eligible activities are:
    .   Activities that lead to the loss or degradation o f natural sites (forests, wetlands,
    ... natural habitats, protected areas).

        Activities representinga threat to cultural, historical and archeological properties.

        Activities involving purchase o fpesticides or equipment for their application.

        Activities involving the construction o f dams 15 meters highor more.

8.      There will be specific cases for activities involving land acquisition, resettlement,
or impacts on people's access to their habitat, goods, income or means o f livelihood,
public services. These activities are not totally ineligible, but compliance should be
ensured within the specific framework developed for these cases.

EnvironmentalAssessment Guidelines

9.      In order to ensure that environmental impacts are appropriately taken into
consideration in the planning and implementation of activities in the two INDH
components, implementing agencies and INDH decision-makers should follow the

                                          - 112-

environmental assessment procedures outlined in this document. These procedures will
be fully integrated in the participatory and decision making procedures already
established for the implementationof INDH.

10.     Each activity or sub-project will be subjected to an environmental screening to
assess potential impacts and identify best practices and mitigation measures required to
avoid, reduce or mitigate adverse effects. These procedures will ensure compliance with
the INDHscreening criteria "The project does not pose any threat to the environment. If
itdoesmitigationmeasures needto be clearly identified".
    .   Preliminary Evaluation with environmental datasheet: At the inception o f an
        activity, the project sponsor, with support from the local facilitation teams
        (EAC/EAQ), will prepare an environmental datasheet (Annex B o f the EMP)at
        the same time as he or she prepares a standard project proposal datasheet. The
        purpose o f the environmental database is to carry out the preliminary screening
        o f (i)the eligibility o f the activity; (ii)potential social and environmental
        impacts; and (iii)best practices and mitigation measures to be considered. The
        outcomes of these screenings will be presented and discussed at the level o f the
        local, provincial or regional human development committee (CLDH, CPDH or
        CRDH) depending on the program component to: (i)      confirm the eligibility o f the
        activity and (ii)
                        decide on whether the best practices and mitigation measures are
    .   adequate or whether an environmental assessment (EA) will be necessary.

        Environmental Assessment: It is anticipated that most o f the activities subjected
        to preliminary screening will not require an EA because either (i)they will not
        have significant impact or (ii) they will have low impacts that can be avoided,
        reduced or mitigated through best practices and mitigation measures identified
        during the preliminary screening.     If an EA is required to thoroughly assess
        specific impacts (such as cumulative impacts) or to develop specific measures, the
        project sponsors, with the assistance of the D A S and/or the regional inspection of
        the Ministryo f Environment (MATEE), will identify an experienced consultant in
        EA to conduct a detailed assessment. Model terms o f reference for these EA are
        provided inAnnex C ofthe EMP. The EA should be finalized and discussed with
    .   CDLH, CPDH or CRDHbefore the approval o f the activity.

        Implementation of best practices and mitigation measures: Examples o f best
        practice and mitigation measures for activities and sub-projects likely to have a
        potential impact on the environment are described in Annex D o f the EMP.
        CLDH, CPDH and CRDH will ensure that best practice and mitigation measures
        identified for an activity are included in the contracts o f the firms that will
        implement the activity or works and that those practices and measures are hlly
        implemented. With the support o f MATEEregional inspections, the best practice
        and measures will be subject to regular supervision and monitoring and evaluation
        as explained below.

                                            - 113 -

11.    Local facilitation teams, D A S and INDH committees will ensure that
environmental assessment procedures follow the participatory process and meet
requirements set by INDH at the local level and that this participatory process includes a
gender balance duringconsultations, analysis, andproject implementation.

Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation Procedures

12.    The EMP establishes an environmental monitoring system that could be
integrated in the monitoring and evaluation system provided for in the INDH
implementation framework. This monitoring system includes the following components:

       Environmental screening: The purpose o f the screening is to ensure that best
       practices and environmental and social mitigation measures identified during the
       preliminary screening or in the EA are complied with during planning o f
        implementation o f activities or sub-projects. The screening will be carried out by
        INDH committees supported by the DAS and local facilitation teams, in close
        collaboration with MATEE regional inspections and local communities. It will
        enable adjustment of identified mitigation measures, if necessary, in order to be
        able to intervene promptly to limit or remedy environmental degradation as well
        as costs related to its restoration. At sub-project completion, the project sponsor
       will prepare an environmental component inthe completion report describing the
        status o f environmental impacts.

       Environmental monitoring: The purpose is to measure the impacts o f activities
        and sub-projects on the quality o f the local environment and compare them with
       the assessment o f potential impacts carried out during the environmental
        screening or the EA. This exercise will also be carried out by INDHcommittees
        supported by the DAS and local facilitation teams, in close collaboration with
       MATEEregional inspections and local communities. It will help to evaluate the
        effectiveness o f mitigation measures taken and, if necessary, take corrective
        actions as well as evaluate other aspects over which uncertainties may subsist. In
        order to undertake monitoring o f the environmental impact o f sub-projects, some
       key monitoring indicators should be developed (see Table 1 for standard
        indicators proposed) and a baseline established at the launch o f the sub-project to
        allow for a comparison over time.

13.     INDH decision-makers bodies,          in collaboration with MATEE regional
inspections, will ensure that environmental monitoring reports are prepared periodically
for both the INDH Steering Committee and the World Bank. These reports should
include a comparison between the baseline, assumptions and key measured indicators, a
discussion on observed discrepancies, and appropriate recommendations.

                                                - 114-



                               Table 1:StandardMonitoringIndicators


     EnvironmentalImpacts        StandardIndicators         Responsible         Frequency


    Overexploitation of water   Sustainability of        MATEEregional      Bi-annual.
    resources-drinking water    water resources:         inspection, Local
    sub-projects inrural areas. groundwater table or     community.
                                 level o f surface water
    Production of waste, noise, Appropriate waste        CLDH and EAC       Periodically during
    dust-                       management (solid       AND EAQ, local      works and
    constructionhestorationof    and liquid)reduction    community.         implementation.
    infiastructureshasic         o f dust andnoise.
    equipment,
    Erosion, soil degradation    Soils conditions:       CLDH and EAC       Periodically during
    andnatural resources-        signs of erosion,       AND EAQ,           works and
    constructiodrehabilitation   quality o fvegetable    MATEEregional      implementation.
    ofroads andbasic             cover, natural          inspection.
    infrastructurehuilding .     habitats, etc.
    Water degradation and air    Water and air quality,  MATEE regional     Periodically during
    pollution, overexploitation  natural resources       inspection, local  works and
    o f natural resources-       conditions, grazing,    community.         implementation.
    income generating            wetlands, etc.
    activities.

Training andCapacityBuildingActivities

14.      The participative development process created by INDH will involve local
communities,        government officials,        elected  representatives,   and civil society
representatives. Given the relative inexperience o f the local, provincial, and regional
committees in terms o f environmental safeguards a capacity building component has
beendesigned for each level o fthe program and will constitute a key factor o f success.

15.      The EMP will ensure that awareness-raising on environmental issues as well as
traininghapacity-building on analysis and management o f environmental impacts will be
integrated in this component. Parts o f the environmental component includes the
following activities (a detailed program o fthe component i s inAnnex E o f the EMP):
    .    Awareness-raising for local populations, elected representatives and civil society
         organizations who will participate in the preparation o f project proposals in order
         to be able to prepare project environmental datasheets and monitor the
         implementation o f best practice and environmental impact mitigation measures.
         Environmental awareness creation among local stakeholders will be integrated in
    .    the preparatoryphase o fthe design o f INDH.

         Trainingfor INDH decision-making bodies and key actors (local, provincial and
         regional INDH committees, DAS and local facilitation teams) as they will be
         called upon to: (i)   provide technical assistance to project sponsors so that the

                                             - 115 -


        latter can ensure the quality o f environmental screening at the local level and (ii)
        ensure that environmental issues are adequately taken into account in the
        participatory analysis. These actors will be trained on environmental assessment
        and management so that they are able to ensure compliance of INDH activities
        with Moroccan environmentalpolicies and World Banksafeguard policies.

16.     These awareness-raising, training and environmental capacity-building activities
at the local, provincial and regional levels o f INDH will be reinforced by a program o f
the UnitedNations Development Program. The purpose of the above program, which will
be financed by the Global Environment Fund, is to increase the global benefits (on
biodiversity, climate changes, and combating desertification) o f INDH.

Budget

17.     The indicative budget for the implementation of the EMP (see Table 2) estimates
incremental costs imposed by environmental assessment procedures, monitoring and
evaluation, and capacity-building. Most of the EMP activities (preliminary assessment,
environmental screening, and environmental monitoring) will be integrated in existing
INDH procedures and will not involve significant incremental costs. Significant
incremental costs o f other EMP activities (environmental assessments, implementation of
good practice and mitigation measures, training and capacity building) have been
included inthe overall INDHbudget.

                        Table 2: Budget for Implementation of EMPActivities



             EMPActivities                 Quantity         Ratemnit       Overall Costs

    Environmental Assessment
    Process
            Preliminaryassessment          300-400          Marginal         Marginal
            Environmentalassessment         50 - 100      US$2,000lEA       US$2,000
            Implementationofbest              TbC              TbC             TbC
            practicelmitigation
            measures

    Environmental Monitoring and
    Evaluation
            Environmentalscreening         300-400          Marginal        Marginal
            Environmentalmonitoring        300-400             TbC             TbC

    Training and Capacity-building
            Awareness-raising for local  610workshops   US$5OO/workshop    US$305,000
            population
            Training of decision-        610workshops   US$5OOlworkshop    US$305,000
            makingbodies
    Capacity-buildingfor decision-       50 workshops   US$5OO/workshop     US$25,000
    makingbodies
    Total                                                                 US$835,000

                                            - 116-


                      Annex 10B: SafeguardPolicyIssues-SocialAspects


Objectiveof the ResettlementPolicyFramework(RPF)

1.      The objective o f the RPF is to define the procedures for land acquisition and
involuntary resettlement as a result o f the INDHprogram since the exact project activities
and localities cannot be predetermined. The principles described in this policy are
consistent with Moroccan law and Bank policy which includes acquisition o f land
whether or not there i s physical displacement o fpeople.

PrinciplesGoverningResettlementandLandAcquisition

2.      Rationalefor land acquisition or displacement of people or economic activities:
Land acquisition or displacement of people or economic activities will be due to
rehabilitation o f existing structures or the buildingof new ones. No land expropriation is
expected under the project due to the types o f investments that are planned (small
infrastructure works) and the high cost o f expropriation (in terms o f time and financial
expenses). The following is a list of the types o f land which can be acquired or utilized
for INDHpurposes:
    .
    ....Land belonging to communes.
        Public land (terrains domaniaux).
        Leasingpublic or private land.
        Donationo fprivate o f collectively-owned land.
        Temporary occupation o fpublic land.

3.      Minimization of Land Acquisition: Sub-projects that require expropriation are
ineligible for INDH financing.       The INDH sub-projects are not expected to involve
significant resettlement impacts due to their small size and also the participatory planning
process o f the project.      However, some land acquisition or displacement may be
necessary to implement sub-projects. Most o f the land will be made available to the
project in the form o f leases and voluntary partnership arrangements (and land
donations). Legal contracts will be prepared for the leases.

4.      Compensation and Eligibility Principles: The RPF identifies compensation
mechanisms according to each type o f project affected person, such as users/owners o f
agricultural land, land used for housing, and land used for economic activities. The
description o fprocedures for land acquisition under INDHis provided inTable 1.

                                                  - 117-


             Table 1:Descriptionof Proceduresfor LandAcquisition under INDH


                  Key Steps                       Description                 Responsibility
         1. Site Identification        Various sites are proposed and     Project applicants
                                       data o n land status i s completed (associations etc),
                                                                          CPDH, Communes
         2. Preliminary assessment     Identification o f affected        D A S assigned to the
         o f impacts, according to     population, their means of         assessment
         the different types of sites. livelihood and anticipated         commission.
                                       losses.
         3. Final selection of site    Based on the preliminary           CPDH
                                       assessment and the report of the
                                       assessment commission.

                                       Determine if a Land                CPDH
                                       Acquisition Plan is necessary.
         4. Preparation of a           Task i s assigned to consultants   D A S
         Resettlement Action Plan      and contracts prepared.
         5. Mediation                  Complaints and conflicts           Mediation
                                       recorded.                          commission.
                                       Amicable solutions found.

         6. Implementation o f         Task delegated (contracted) to     CPDH
         Resettlement Action Plan      an NGO
         7. Monitoringand              Onthe basis o fthe baseline        D A S
         evaluation of the             described instep 4.
         Resettlement Action Plan

InformationandConsultationwith Project-AffectedPersons

5.      The INDH is a highly participatory program. Project affected persons will be
informed and consulted extensively. Depending on the locality, traditional systems o f
consultation (council o f elders) and dispute resolution will be used. However, alternative
systems will also be used to ensure that weaker groups are not coerced. Options will be
provided to them andjoint solutions found.

EligibilityCriteriafor DefiningCategoriesof DisplacedPersons

6.      The FWF recognizes the following categories o f eligible persons: (i)on
agricultural land: owners with established rights, those with usufruct rights and
agricultural laborers; (ii) land used for housing: owners and tenants; (iii) land used
                               on                                                            on
for economic activities: owners andtenants.

Methodsfor EvaluatingAssets andfor Monitoringof Implementation

7.      A committee for evaluating assets will be established to determine the appropriate
means o f compensation. The DAS at the provincial level and the INDH Unit at the
national level are responsible for monitoring the implementation o f resettlement related
activities.

                                            - 118 -


Proceduresfor Informingthe Bank

8.      The details o f planned land acquisition or displacement o f people/economic
activities will be consolidated in a Land Acquisition Plan. This is the basis upon which
the compensations are determined are therefore preparedwith great care. The DAS at the
local level ensures that the planconforms to the requirements o f Bankpolicy and submits
the monitoring plan (attached as an annex in the full RPF) as part o f the procurement
package to the Bank, which approves the plans that conform to Bank requirements for
financing.

InstitutionalCapacityBuilding

9.      Local level actors have very limited experience in implementing resettlement
activities. The program will conduct capacity building activities for local level actors to
ensure that the RPF is implementedaccurately.
    .   Awareness-raising for local populations, elected representatives and civil society
        organizations who will participate inthe preparation o f project proposals in order
        to be able to prepare project datasheets on land status and monitor the
    .   implementation o fbest practice social impact mitigation measures.

         Trainingfor INDH decision-making bodies and key actors (local, provincial and
        regional INDH committees, DAS and local facilitation teams) as they will: (i)
        provide technical assistance to project sponsors so that they can ensure the quality
        o f social impact screening at the local level; (ii) integration o f social issues
                                                          ensure
        in the community monographs and participatory analysis; (iii)      confirm proper
        documentation o f land ownership/use status; and (iv) guarantee compliance o f
        IDLH activities with Moroccan expropriation policies and World Bank social
        safeguards policies.

Budget

 10.     The indicative budget for the implementation o f the RPF (see Table 2) estimates
incremental costs imposed by social assessment procedures, monitoring and evaluation,
capacity-building. Most of the RPF activities (preliminary assessment, social screening,
monitoring, etc) will be integrated in existing procedures o f INDH and will not involve
significant  incremental costs. Significant incremental costs o f other activities (social
assessments, implementation o f good practice and mitigation measures, training and
capacity building, etc) will be included inthe Bank financed INDHbudget.

                                             - 119-


                       Table 3: Budget for Implementation of RPFActivities



             EMPActivities                     Quantity          Ratel         Overall
                                                                 Unit           costs


Social Assessment Process
    0   Preliminary assessment                 300-400          Marginal       Marginal
        Social assessment                      50 - 100       US$2,000/EA     US$2,000
    0   Implementation o f best                  T b C            T b C          T b C
        practicehitigation measures

Social SafeguardsMonitoring and
Evaluation
        Social screening                       300-400          Marginal       Marginal
        Social monitoring                      300-400            T b C          T b C

Training and Capacity-building
        Awareness-raising for local          300 workshops   US$SOO/workshop  US$l50,000
        population                           300 workshops   US$SOO/workshop  US$150,000
        Training o f decision-making bodies
    0   Capacity-building for decision-      25 workshops    US$SOO/workshop  US$12,500
        making bodies
Total                                                                         US$312500

                                           - 120-



                   Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision

        NationalInitiativefor HumanDevelopmentSupport Project(INDH)




Key institutions responsible for preparation o f the project: A Steering Committee chaired
by the Prime Minister's Office and composed o f the Ministries o f Interior; Finance and
Privatization; Social Development, Family and Solidarity; and Agriculture, Rural
Development and Maritime Fisheries. The Steering Committee was supported by the
INDHUnito fthe Ministryo fInterior.

Bankstaff andconsultants who workedonthe project:

Name                                Title                                   Unit
CCcileFruman                      1IPrincipalCountry Officer, Task Team   IIMNco1

                                      - 121-


   ...
Bankfunds expended to date onProject preparation:

      Bank resources: approximately US$540,000 (as o f November 7,2006).
      Trust funds: US$18,000 (Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and
      TFESSD).
      Total: approximately US$558,000.

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    . Remaincosts to approval: US$25,000.
      Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$120,000.

                                      - 122 -


                    Annex 12: Documents in the Project Files

      National Initiative for Human Development Support Project (INDH)


Government Documents

     Discours Royal du 18 mai 2005
     Plateformpour unPland'Action
     Manuel de prockdures du Programme de lutte contre l'exclusion sociale en milieu
     urbain- aoQt2005
     Manuel de prockdures du Programme de lutte contre la pauvretk en milieurural -
     aoQt2005
     Manuelde prockdureduProgrammede lutte contre laprkcaritk-aoQt2005.
     Manuelde prockdures pour appel aprojets-programmetransversal -mars 2006
     Note d'orientation pour la mise en Oeuvre de 1'Initiative nationale pour le
     dkveloppement humain-periode 2006-2010
     Prksentation pour la troisikme rkunion du Comitk stratkgique prksidk par
     Monsieur le Premier Ministre-2 mai 2006
     Operations manuals for urban, rural andvulnerability components -July 2006
     Operations manual for income generating activities -November 2006
     Manual o f Fiduciary Procedures -November 2006
     Etude sur: "l'ktat   des lieux de la mise en oeuvre de la stratkgie 2020 de
     dkveloppement rural"- rapport de synthkse - octobre 2005

Bank Documents

     Aide-memoire o f mission, October 2005
     Aide-memoire o fmission, December 2005
     Aide-memoire o f Identification mission, February 13-24,2006
     Aide-memoire o f Preparationmission, April 17-28,2006 and M a y 3-6,2006
     Aide-memoire o f Pre-appraisal mission, June 5- 16,2006
     Aide-memoire of Appraisal Mission, September 18-29,2006
     Kingdom o f Morocco Poverty report : Strengthening Policy by Identifyingthe
                                            "
     Geographic Dimension o fPoverty- September 2004"
     Kingdom o f Morocco Country Economic Memorandum "Fostering Higher
     Growth and Employment with Productive Diversification and Competitiveness" -
     March, 2006
     President Report o f Housing Sector Development Policy Loan- June 2005
     Project Documents o f Morocco Decentralization Technical Assistance Activity
     Project Appraisal Document o f Rainfed Agriculture Development project - June
     2003
     Project Appraisal Document o f Irrigated Based-Community Development project
     -May2001
     Project Appraisal Document o f Social Development Agency project - June 2002

......                                   - 123 -


      Project Appraisal Document o f Basic Education Reform Support Program -
      January 2005
      Project Appraisal Document o f Adult Literacy (Alpha Maroc) project -
      September 2002
      Project Appraisal Document o f Rural Water Supply and Sanitation project -
      November 2005
      Project ISRs
      Analysis o f Social Issues Report, October 3,2005
      Moving out o fPoverty Study, National Synthesis Report, 2006

                                                     - 124-



                              Annex 13: Statement of Loansand Credits
                           National Initiative for Human Development (INDH)
                                             As of November6,2006


Active Prolecte                                                                                    Difference Between
                                                                                                   Expected and Actual
                                                               DrlalnaI Amount In US$ MIIIIons       Dlsbursements '
Project ID    M        Project Name                               IBRD     Grant Cancel. Undisb.        --
                                                                                                         Orlg.    Frill
                                                                                                                 Rev'd
PO75808     2003       Adult Literacy (Alpha Maroc)                 4.1                1.8      2.3       3.1     -0.2
PO43412     2005       Basic Education ReformSupport               80.0                        61.3      30.9
PO88243     2006       Financial Sector DPL                       200.0                        72.6      48.1
PO05525     1999       Health Management                           66.0               26.4     13.8      33.5      7.1
P083746     2005       Housing Sector DPL                         150.0                        57.6       4.4
PO56978     2001       Irngation-BasedCommunity Dev                32.6                6.2     17.2      21.4      1.o
PO48314     2000       GEF-ProtectionAreas Management                       10.5                5.5       5.5     -0.1
PO82754     2004       Rural Roads                                 36.9                        34.3       7.0      8.4
PO94007     2006       Rural Roads 11                              60.0                        63.4       4.1
PO69124     2003       Rainfed AgncultureDevelopment               26.8                        29.8       7.2      0.2
PO86877     2006       RuralWater Supplyand Sanitation             60.0                        62.0       3.2
PO73531     2002       Social DevelopmentAgency                     5.0                         3.4        1.1     1.o

Overall Result                                                    721.3     10.5      34.4    423.2      169.3   15.4



                                                       Morocco
                                                   StatementofIFC's
                                             HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                   As of 10/31/2006
                                               (In US Dollars Millions)


                                             IFCHeld                                      IFCDisbursed

                                                                            Loan    Equity    Quasi Guarantee   Pamc
2006 FONDEP                     0          0       0       3.44       0         0        0        0       1.72      0
2000 MaghrebInv. Mgt            0       0.02       0          0       0         0     0.02        0          0       0
2000 Maghreb InvestP            0       2.30       0          0       0         0     2.30        0          0       0

     Total Portfolio:           0       2.32       0       3.44       0         0     2.32        0       1.72       0

                                                                           - 125 -

                                                   Annex 14: Country at a Glance
            National Initiative for Human Development Support Project (INDH)

                                                                                                                II
                                                                                   M. East       Lower
Key Development Indicators                                                         8 North       middle
                                                                     Morocco          Africa    income            Age dlstrlbutlon, 2005
(2005)                                                                                                                       Male               Female

Population, mid-year(millions)                                          30.1            305      2,475            10.14
Surfacearea (thousandsq. km)                                             447          8.984     39,946                                 4
Populationgrowth(%)                                                       1.o           1.8         1.o           6064

Urban population (46 of total population)                                  55            57         49            50.51
                                                                                                                  40.44

GNI (Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                                          52.8           685      4,746            3034

GNI per capita(Atlas method,US$)                                        1,750         2,241       1.918           D 2 4
GNI per capita (PPP.international16)                                    4,360         6,076      6,313            1014
                                                                                                                I   M
GDP growth (%)                                                            1.7           4.6         6.9
GDP per capita growth(%)                                                  0.7           2.8         5.9                l5 'O          Dement
                                                                                                                                         O         lo


(most recent estimate, ZO00-2WS)

Poverty headcwnt ratio at $1 a day (PPP, %)                                c2 *            2                    I
Poverty headcount ratio at $2a day (PPP, %)                                14                                    Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
                                                                              a          20
Lifeexpectancyal birth(years)                                              71             69        70
Infantmortality(per 1,000 live births)                                     40            44          33         I loo 1
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                                   10             13         12

Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15and older)                               66             82         93
Adult literacy, female (% of ages 15and older)                             40             62         85
Gross primaryenrollment,male (% of age group)                             111           106         115
Gross primaryenrollment,female (% of age group)                           100           100         113

Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                        81             89         82
Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (%of population)                    79             76         57                    19W     1995   xyx)  mC4

                                                                                                                      7Morocco   0MiddleEast8 NorthAfrica
                                                                                                                I
Net Aid Flows                                               1980        1990          2000        2005

                                                                                                                                                         I
(US$ millions)
Net ODA and officialaid                                      899        1,049           419        706          IGrowthof GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3 donors (in 2W4):
  France                                                      135         217           155        218            15 -
  Japan                                                         4         111           103         6
  Spain                                                                    33             -1        51

Aid (% of GNI)                                                 4.9        4.2            1.3        1.4
Aid percapita (US$)                                            47          44             15        24


Long-Term Economic Trends

Consumer prices (annual% change)                               9.4        6.9            1.9        1.o
GDP implicitdeflator (annual% change)                        15.2         6.7            1.5        1.4

Exchange rate (annualaverage, localper US$)                    3.9        8.2          10.6         8.9
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                              80          75           100         99
                                                                                                                    1980-90 1990-2000         200045
                                                                                                                        (averageannualgrowfh %)
Population, mid-year (millions)                              19.4        24.2         28.5         30.1                 2.2            1.7        1.1
GDP (US$millions)                                         18,821      25.784        33,334       51,621                 3.9           2.2         4.2
                                                                          (W of GDP)
Agnculture                                                   18.4        17.7          13.8        14.1                 3.8           -2.5        5.9
Industry                                                     30.9        32.4         31.9         29.9                 3.2           2.8         4.2
  Manufactunng                                               16.8        18.4          17.6        16.6                 4.3           2.7         3.4
Services                                                     50.6        49.8         54.2         55.9                 4.3            3.2        3.8

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                        67.9        65.1         63.5         58.1                 3.6            1.8        3.0
General gogt final consumption expenditure                   18.3        15.5          19.1        22.8                 3.7           4.1         4.9
Gross capitalformation                                      24.2         25.3         23.6         25.7                 2.0           2.3         4.6

Exports of goods and sewices                                 17.4        26.5         31.4         36.6                 7.9           4.8         5.9
Importsof goods and services                                27.9         32.5         37.6         42.9                 4.7           4.9         4.5
Gross savings                                                17.4        24.5         22.2         28.9                 5.6            1.6       108


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2005 data are preliminaryestimates. ..indicatesdata  are not available.
a. Country povertyestimateis for 1999. b. Aid data are for 2004.

Development Economics,Development Data Group (DECDG)

                                                                     - 126-


Balance of Payments and Trade                         2000      2005
                                                                                                                _-
                                                                                    Sovernance indicators, 2000 and 2004
(US$ millions)
Total merchandiseexports (fob)                       7,419     10,644
Total merchandiseimports(cif)                        11,531    20,884                 Voice and accountability
Nettrade in goodsand services                        -2,085    -3,809
                                                                                             Political stability                               ~~

Workers'remittancesand                                                                                                                                   I
  compensationof employees(receipts)                 2,181     4,567                        Regulatory quality                                           1

Current accountbalance                                -467      1,257                              Rule of law
  as a % of GDP                                        -1.4       2.4                    Control of corruption                                  I        ,
Reserves. includinggold                               5,150    17,936                                           4
                                                                                                                0     25          Y)           75      rm

Central Government Finance                                                                 D2004                   Country's percentile rank (0-100)
                                                                                           32000                    hghw value5mpiy M e r`Blmgs

(% of GDP)
Revenue(exciud.Privatizationreceipts)                 26.2       27.1               jource Kaufmann-Kmay-Mastml Worn sank
  Tax revenue                                         23.8       24.5
Expense(incl. HassanIIFund, net of SpecialA=.:        32.0       33.4
                                                                                 Technology and Infrastructure                                2000     2004
Budgetsurplus/deficit(Commit.)                         -5.8       -6.3
                                                                                 Pavedroads (% of total)                                      56.4       56.4
Highestmarginaltax rate (%)                                                      Fixedline and mobilephone
  individual                                             4 4 4 4                   subsaibers (per 1,000people)                                135        357
  Corporate                                             35         35            Hightechnologyexports
                                                                                   (% of manufacturedexports)                                  11.3       10.2
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                 Envlronrnent
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstandinganddisbursed                   20,713    16,846            Agriculturalland (% of land area)                               69        68
Total debt service                                    2,702     2,718            Forestarea (% of landarea, 2000 and 2005)                       9.7       9.8
HlPC and MDRldebt relief(expected:flow)                   -          -           Nationallyprotectedareas (% of landarea)                          ..      0.7

Total debt (% of GDP)                                  62.1      32.6            Freshwaterresourcesper capita (cu.meters)                         ..     972
Total debtservice (% of exports)                       21.0      14.0            Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internalresources)                     ..   43.4

Foreign direct investment(net inflows)                  221     1.698            C02 emissionsper capita (mt)                                    1.3      1.5
Portfolioequity (net inflows)                            18       -87
                                                                                 GDP per unit of energyuse
                                                                                   (2000 PPP $ per kgof oil equivalent)                          9.9      10.4
    :omposition of total external debt, 2004
                                                                                 Energyuse per capita (kg of oil equivalent)                   358        378
                    Short-term 211-  IBRD,2,524
                                               -IDA21
                                                                                           Bank Groupportfo

                                                                                  (US$ rni//ions)

                                                                                  iBRD
                                                                                   Total debt outstandingand disbursed                       2,837     2,258
                                                                                   Disbursements                                                138       262
                                                                                   Principalrepayments                                         307        309
                                                                                   Interestpayments                                             190        87

                                                                                  IDA
                                                                                   Total debt outstandingand disbursed                           27        20
                                                                                   Disbursements                                                  0          0
Private Sector Development                            2000      2005               Total debt service                                             2          2

Time requiredto start a business (days)                             11            IFC (fiscalyear)
Cost to start a business(% of GNi per capita)                     12.0             Total disbursedand outstandingportfolio                       29       393
Time requiredto registerproperty(days)                    ---       82               of which IFCown account                                     29        83
                                                                                   Disbursementsfor IFCown account                                 1        2
Rankedas a majorconstraintto business                                              Portfoliosales. prepaymentsand           ,
   (% of managersSurveyedwho agreed)                                                 repaymentsfor iFC own account                                7         0
     Cost offinancing                                            79.2
     Access to financing                                  ....   77.9             MiGA
                                                                                   Grossexposure                                                  -
Stock market capitalization(% of GDP)                  32.7      52.6              New guarantees                                                 -          --
Bank branches(per 100,000people)                          ..      6.6


Note:Figuresin italicsarefor years otherthan those specified. 2005 data are preliminalyestimates.
.. indicatesdata are not available. indicatesobservation is notapplicable.
                                   -                                                                                                                  11/8/06


DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).

                                                                       - 127 -


Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                            Morocco


With selected targets to achieve between 7990 and 2075
(estimate closestto date shown, +/- 2 years)


Goal 1:halvethe ratesfor $1 a day poverty and malnutrition                                       1990           1995           2000       2004
 Povertyheadcountratioat $1 a day (PPP. % of population)                                             e2                          c2
 Povertyheadcountratioat nationalpovertyline(% of population)                                     13.1                          19.0       15.0
 Share of incomeor consumptionto the pmrest qunitile(%)                                                                         6.5
 Prevalenceof malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                                                     10            9                         10

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primaryschooling
 Primaryschool enrollment(net, %)                                                                    56          60              77          86
 Primarycompletionrate(% of relevantage group)                                                       47           48             58          75
 Secondaryschoolenrollment(gross,%)                                                                  35                          39          48
 Youth literacyrate (%ofpeopleages 15-24)                                                            55                                      70

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity ineducation and empower women
 Ratioof girls to boys in primaryandsecondaryeducation(%)                                            70                          e3          88
 Womenemployedinthe nonagriculturalsector(% of nonagriculturalemployment)                            25           26             26          26
 Proportionof seats heldbywomen in nationalparliament(%)                                              0            1               1         11

Goal 4: reduce under4 mortality by two-thirds
 Underdmortalityrate (per 1,000)                                                                     89           69             54          43
  Infantmortalityrate (per 1,000live births)                                                         69           56             45          38
 Measles immunization(proportionof one-yearolds immunized,%)                                         80           88              93         95

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
                                                                                                    ~
 Maternal mortalityratio(modeledestimate,per 100,000live births)                                                                220
 Birthsattendedbyskilled healthstaff (% of total)                                                    31           40                         63

Goal 6: halt and beginto reverse the spread of HlVlAlDSand other major diseases
 Prevalenceof HIV (% of populationages 15-49)                                                                                               0.1
 Contraceptiveprevalence(%of women ages 15-49)                                                       42           50                         63
  Incidenceof tuberculosis(per 100,000people)                                                        135                                    110
 Tuberculosiscases detectedunderDOTS (%)                                                                          93             84          80

Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
 Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                                                 75                                      81
 Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (%of population)                                             56                                      73
 Forestarea (% of total landarea)                                                                    9.6                         9.7        9.8
 Nationallyprotectedareas (% of total landarea)                                                                                             0.7
 GO2 emissions(metrictons percapita)                                                                 1.o         1.2             1.3        1.5
 GDP per unit of energy use(constant2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                          11.9          10.1             9.9       10.4

Goal 8: develoqa global partnership for de_veloplmenL--
  F I Xline~and moDile pnonesLbscnbers(per 1,000people)
          ~                                                                                           17          44            135         357
  Internetusers (per 1,000 people)                                                                    0            0               7        117
  Personal computers(per 1,000people)                                                                              3              13         21
 Youm unemployment(% of total laDorforceages 15-24)                                                                             18.9       17.0


   Educationindicators (%)                             Aeasles immunization(%of I-year olds)             CT indicators (per 1,000 people)


    1w   1                                             100                                               4w


                                                        75  -                                            3w


                                                        5 0 .                                            2w 1                     ,     I


                                                        25.                                              1w
     54-
            1998     2033       2w2       2 m             0 -                                             0
                                                                 1880    1885   2030   2ow                      2033        2w2        2m
         -+-Primary    netenrollment ratio

         +Ratio     of girlsto boys inprimary8
                secondaryeducation                         0Morocco    C MiddleEast8 NorthAfrica                 1Fixed+mbllesubscribers
                                                                                                                 c Internetusers



Note: Figuresin italicsarefor years otherthan those specified...indicatesdata are notavailable.                                          11/8/06

DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).


MAP SECTION


                                                               10W                                                                                                     5W                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                                                                                     Mediterranean                                          Sea

                                                                                                                                             Tangier

                                                                                                                                                                 Ttouan
                                                                                                                                                                 Ttouan                                                                                                  35N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                       Al Hoceima                                                    Algiers

              35N                                                                                                                 Larache                              Chechaouene
                                                                                                                                                                        Chechaouene                   Nador
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nador

                                                  MOROCCO                                                                                                                                                  OuedMoulouyTaourirt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Oujda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Oujda
                                                                                                                                                               OuezzaneOuezzane

                                                                                                                                                                           Taounate
                                                                                                                                                                            aounate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      aourir
                                                                                                                                                            Oued Sebour                                 .
                                                                                                                            Kenitra                 Sidi
                                                                                                                                                    Sidi                                   Taza
                                                                                                                                                                                            aza         ts
                                                                                                                            Sale                  Kacem
                                                                                                                                                  Kacem                 Fs
                                                                                                                                                                        Fs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ain Bini
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ain Bini
                                                                                                                        RABAT                                                                          M                      MatharMathar
                                                                                                                                                                Mekns
                                                                                                                                                                Mekns
                                                                                                                                             Khemisset
                                                                                                                                             Khemisset
                                                                                             Casablanca                                                                  Ifrane
                                                                                                                                                                         Ifrane
                                                                                                                                                              AzrouAzrou                         Atlas
                                                                                                                          Ben Slimane
                                                                                                                          Ben Slimane                                              Boulemane
                                                                                                                                                                                   Boulemane
                                                                                El Jadida         BerrechidBerrechid                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                   Settat
                                                                                                   Settat
                                                                                                                                      Oued Zem
                                                                                                                                      Oued Zem                 Khenifra
                                                                                                                                                               Khenifra             Middle                      n                                               El Bayadh

                                                                                                                          Khouribga
                                                                                                                          Khouribga                                                              t  a      i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BourfaBourfa

                                    ATLANTIC                                                                        Oued                                                                   n
                                                                                                                        ErRbia                 Beni Mellal
                                                                                                                                               Beni Mellal                             u                                                          Figuig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Figuig

                                                                           Safi                                                                                                   o
                                     OCEAN                                                           El Kelaa
                                                                                                     El Kelaa
                                                                                                  des Srarhna
                                                                                                  des Srarhna                                                               M
                                                                                                                                    Azilal
                                                                                                                                    Azilal                     s                        Errachidia
                                                                                                                                                                                        Errachidia
                                                                                    Oued Tennsift
                                                                                                                               DemnateDemnate   a
                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                            To
                                                            Essaouira                          Marrakech
                                                                                               Marrakech                  t                                                                                                   Tindouf                                      0
                                                                                      Chichaoua
                                                                                      Chichaoua       Tahannaout
                                                                                                      ahannaout
                                                                                                       A
                                                                                                       Jebel Toubkal
                                                                                                       Jebel oubkal                                                                                                                MOROCCO
                                                                                                       (4,165 m)
                                                                                                       (4,165 m)             Ouarzazate
                                                                                                                             Ouarzazate

                                                                                              Souss                                                Oued                              D  A R Y
                                                                                                                                                                                 U N                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                 Agadir                 Oued                                                   ZagoraZagoraDraa
                                                                                  Taroudannt
                                                                                    roudannt                          M t s .                                                  BO                                                         PROVINCE OR PREFECTURE CAPITALS*

                                                                                                                                                                                                          30N                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
              30N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RIVERS

                                                                         Tiznit
                                                                           znit       A n t i  A t l a s
                                                                                                                                                     R        X
                                                                                                        Tata
                                                                                                         ata                                   A PP        O    I M AT E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RAILROADS
              This map was produced by                         IfniIfni
              the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE OR PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
              World Bank. The boundaries,
              colors, denominations and                                                                                                        0            50          100       150      200 Kilometers                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NOVEMBER      any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD
              on this map do not imply, on                   Goulimine
                                                             Goulimine
              the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
              Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                       0                  50                100            150 Miles                              (Approximate)                            33450R
              legal status of any territory,                             Draa
                                                                         Dr
        2006  or any endorsement or              Tan-Tan
                                                 an-Tan     Oued                                                                                                                                                               *Province or Prefecture names are the same
              a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h                                               To
              boundaries.                                                                                                                                                       5W
                                                                                          Tindouf                                                                                                                               as their capitals.

