Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7415 - MOR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(NATIONAL INITIATIVE FOR HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 
 SUPPORT PROJECT) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 15, 2006  
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 15, 2006, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy eight million nine hundred 
thousand Euros (EUR 78,900,000), as such amount may be converted from time 
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Page  3
-2-
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
For purposes of Section 7.02(k) of the General Conditions, the Additional Events 
of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
Page  4
-3-
 
(b) 
the Program shall have been amended, waived or abrogated in a manner 
that could materially or adversely affect the Project’s implementation or 
the achievement of its objectives; and 
 
(c) 
the Operations Manuals, the Fiduciary Procedures Manual, the EMP or 
the RPF shall have been amended, waived or abrogated so as to 
adversely affect the efficiency, economy and transparency of various 
operational, implementation, environmental and social safeguards and 
procurement procedures under the Project. 
 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 7.07(f) of the General Conditions, the Additional Events 
of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Privatization. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Privatization 
Avenue Mohamed V 
Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
MINFIN     212-37-67-75-30/31 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
Page  5
-4-
 
AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
 
By 
 
/s/ Fathallah Oualalou 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
/s/ Ferid Belhaj 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-5-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing its 
National Initiative for Human Development covering the period 2006-
2010
(“the 
Program”) by improving inclusiveness, accountability and transparency in decision 
making and implementation processes at the local level in order to enhance the use of 
basic infrastructure and social and economic services by poor and vulnerable groups 
living in targeted communities in the Project Area. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
1. 
Alleviating Poverty in Rural Areas
Carrying out Sub-projects, identified and prioritized through a participatory 
planning process, in about 402 rural communes aimed at increasing access to basic social 
services and enhanced economic infrastructure, supporting local income-generating 
activities, promoting social, cultural and sports activities and strengthening local 
management, monitoring and evaluation capacity. 
 
2. 
Alleviating Social Exclusion in Urban Areas
Carrying out Sub-projects, identified and prioritized through a participatory 
planning process, in about 250 urban neighborhoods aimed at increasing access to basic 
social services and enhanced economic infrastructure, supporting local income-
generating activities, promoting social, cultural and sports activities and strengthening 
local management, monitoring and evaluation capacity. 
 
3.
 
Alleviating Extreme Vulnerability
Carrying out Sub-projects aimed at improving access by people living in extreme 
vulnerability to quality social services and conducive to greater social and economic 
inclusion, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) the preparation of regional vulnerability maps and 
related action plans; (b) the development of alternatives to institutionalization; (c) the 
design of standards and protocols for addressing the specific needs of various vulnerable 
groups; (d) the improvement of management and quality of existing institutions; (e) the 
promotion of activities designed to prevent vulnerability in rural and urban areas; (f) the 
upgrade of infrastructure facilities serving said people; and (g) support to strengthen the 
institutional capacity of the  Borrower’s public services, local governments (“collectivités 
locales
”), public enterprises and public entities (“établissements publics
”) and of non- 
governmental organizations. 
 
Page  7
-6-
4.
 
Strengthening INDH’s Governance Mechanisms and Institutional Capacity
A. 
Carrying out a program of training, capacity building, outreach and 
communication activities for entities participating in the implementation of the Program, 
including, 
inter alia
:
(i) knowledge sharing, project design and management, 
procurement and financial management, participatory approaches and strategic planning; 
(ii) monitoring and evaluation; (iii) partnership development; and (iv) communication.  
 
B. 
Support to the Provincial Competitive Fund in financing Sub-projects at the 
province and prefecture level, aimed at increasing access to basic social services and 
enhanced economic infrastructure, promoting income-generating activities and social, 
cultural and sports activities, and strengthening local management, monitoring and 
evaluation capacity. 
Page  8
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
1. The 
INDH 
Inter-
ministerial Strategic Committee, chaired by the Borrower’s 
Prime Minister and comprising the Borrower’s Ministers and directors of public entities 
and agencies concerned by the Program, shall ensure coordination among the Borrower’s 
ministries and said entities and agencies in achieving said Program’s goals and oversee  
the implementation of said Program. 
 
2. 
The INDH Steering Committee, chaired by the Borrower’s Prime Minister and 
comprising the Ministers in charge of the Interior, Finance, Social Development and 
Rural Development and the Program’s national coordinator in charge of the INDH 
National Coordination Unit, shall monitor the progress in the overall implementation of 
the Program, provide guidance on said implementation and report thereon to the INDH 
Inter-ministerial Strategic Committee. The INDH Steering Committee shall define the 
Program’s budgetary framework, allocate resources accordingly and oversee the 
implementation of the Program’s institutional communication strategy. 
 
3. 
MOI, through the INDH National Coordination Unit, shall be responsible for 
overall Project oversight, procurement, financial management, environmental and social 
management, including the implementation of the EMP and the RPF, and monitoring and 
evaluation. INDH National Coordination Unit shall provide technical support to CRDHs, 
CPDHs and CLDHs and other entities participating in the implementation of the Project, 
including guidance in the use and regular updates of the Operations Manuals and the 
Fiduciary Procedures Manual, facilitating knowledge sharing among said CRDHs, 
CPDHs, CLDHs and entities, and promoting communication on the Project. INDH 
National Coordination Unit shall centralize all technical, financial and procurement data 
for purposes of consolidating information on Project and Program implementation and 
preparing reports in accordance with Section II, Part A of this Schedule.  
 
4. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project, maintain or cause to 
maintain the INDH National Coordination Unit with qualified staff in adequate number to 
ensure proper Project implementation, in particular in the areas of accounting, financial 
management, procurement, environmental and social safeguards, management 
information systems and participatory approaches. 
 
5. 
Responsibility for the implementation of the Project shall be vested with local, 
provincial and regional-level committees, each of which shall comprise representatives of 
the Borrower, elected officials and the civil society. Said committees shall, 
inter alia
,
Page  9
-8-
oversee the strategic planning process for local development and participate in the 
selection, monitoring and environmental and social screening of Sub-projects.  
 
6. 
At the regional level, CRDHs shall be responsible for the implementation of  
Part 3 of the Project. For purposes of Part 3 (a) of the Project, each CRDH shall prepare 
its respective regional vulnerability map and related action plan on the basis of 
contributions provided by its respective CPDHs, and shall monitor the implementation of 
said plans in consultation with CPDHs and MOI’s Social Action Divisions (“Divisions de 
l’Action Sociale
”
or “DAS
”) at the provincial and prefecture levels.   
 
7. 
At the provincial level, CPDHs shall review, validate and oversee the 
implementation and monitoring of local human development initiatives proposed by 
CLDHs and activities proposed for funding under the Provincial Competitive Fund.  
 
8. 
At the local commune and neighbourhood level, CLDHs shall prepare and adopt 
local human development initiatives, formulated on the basis of a participatory process 
involving local communities and groups. CLDHs shall monitor the implementation of 
said initiatives and report to CPDH thereon. CLDHs shall be assisted by local facilitation 
teams (“Equipes d’animation de quartier
”
and “Equipes d’animation communale
”) which 
shall provide support to local communities and groups in identifying and implementing 
said initiatives. To this end, CLDHs shall coordinate with the relevant DAS at the 
provincial and prefecture levels. 
 
B. 
Operations Manuals, Fiduciary Procedures Manual, Environmental and 
Social Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operations 
Manuals, the Fiduciary Procedures Manual, the EMP and the RPF and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of said 
Manuals, Plan or Framework if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of 
the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
Throughout the duration of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that no land 
expropriation is required for purposes of the works and construction activities to be 
carried out under the Project. The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all works and 
construction activities under the Project shall take place on land owned by the Borrower 
and no resettlement of local population shall take place; and (b) said activities shall be 
consistent with the Bank’s environmental and social policies, the EMP and the RPF. In 
the event that works and construction activities under the Project do not take place on 
land owned by the Borrower, the Borrower shall ensure that said works and activities 
comply with the provisions of the Bank’s environmental and social policies, the EMP and 
the RPF. 
 
Page  10
-9-
 
C. 
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for the Selection of Sub-Projects 
1. 
The Borrower shall require a Partner applying for a Sub-grant to submit its 
proposal for a Sub-project in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operations 
Manuals.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each CRDH, CPDH and CLDH to: (a) ensure that 
proposals for Sub-projects meet the requisite terms and conditions set out in the 
Operations Manuals; (b) ensure that Partners meet the eligibility criteria set out in said 
Manuals and have the capacity to carry out, manage and maintain Sub-projects in 
conformity with sound administrative, financial, procurement, technical, managerial, 
environmental and social standards; (c) approve each Sub-grant and, to that end, enter 
into a Partnership Agreement under which financing under the Project will be made 
available to the Partner for the purposes of the Sub-project; and (d) monitor and evaluate 
the Sub-project in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Operations Manuals.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Partnership Agreement provides for the right 
to: 
 
(a) 
require the Partner to: (i) carry out the Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, 
managerial, environmental and social standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records for 
the Sub-project; 
(b) 
require that all goods, works and services required for the Sub-project 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule; 
(c) 
require that such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively for 
the carrying out of the Sub-project;  
(d) 
require the Partner to make an in-kind and/or in-cash contribution to the 
Sub-project; 
(e) 
require the Partner to allow the Borrower to inspect by itself or jointly 
with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request: (i) the operations of the 
Sub-project; and (ii) any relevant records and documents;  
(f) 
ensure adequate operation and maintenance of said Sub-project; and 
(g) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Partner to use the proceeds of the 
Sub-grant upon failure by the Partner to perform any of its obligations under the 
Partnership Agreement.
 
Page  11
-10-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  
 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part B of this Section, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
Not later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the 
Project, commencing March 31, 2008, submit to the Bank, for its review and assessment, 
an Annual Report, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the format included in the 
Fiduciary Procedures Manual:  
 
(a)  
describing progress achieved in the implementation of the Annual Work 
Plan approved for the Fiscal Year preceding the date of said Report, taking into account 
the Monitoring and Performance Indicators, and evidencing compliance by the Borrower 
with the Disbursement Indicators;  
 
(b)  
covering the technical, financial, accounting and procurement aspects of 
the Project, including environmental and social aspects in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in the EMP and the RPF, and including the financial reports referred to in 
paragraph B.2 of this Section, for the Fiscal Year preceding the date of said Report;  
 
(c)  
confirming that the implementation of the Project complies with the 
EMP and the RPF, providing results on the use of the environmental assessment 
procedures included in the EMP and the RPF, as the case may be, and including, where 
applicable, a copy of the relevant environmental assessment study, land acquisition plan 
and land tenure data sheet for the proposed site(s); and 
 
(d)  
confirming that the Sub-projects have been selected within the Program 
and in accordance with the participatory process described in the Operations Manuals. 
 
2. 
Not later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the 
Project, commencing March 31, 2007, submit to the Bank, for its review and assessment, 
an Annual Work Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the format included in 
the Fiduciary Procedures Manual, setting forth, for the subsequent twelve (12) month 
period following the Fiscal Year preceding the date of said Plan, 
inter alia
:
(a) work 
programs; (b) the Annual Allocation and detailed budgetary allocations as shall be 
necessary to ensure adequate financing and proper implementation of said period’s 
Annual Work Plan; (c) the Procurement Plan; (d) the Monitoring and Performance 
Indicators and the Disbursement Indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank 
for said period’s Annual Work Plan; and (e) confirmation that said Plan is technically and 
financially viable.  
Page  12
-11-
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering each calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, said 
reports to be submitted to the Bank within forty five (45) days following the end of said 
semester. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period.
 
4. 
The Borrower shall include, as part of the audit referred to in the preceding 
paragraph 3, a financial audit covering a representative sample of Sub-projects financed 
under the Program. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works. 
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions 
of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 
International and National Competitive Bidding.
 Except as otherwise 
provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
Page  13
-12-
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. Goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less and works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$3,000,000 or less may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding procedures.  
 
Said National Competitive Bidding procedures shall ensure, 
inter alia
,
that: 
 
(a) 
the bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award criteria and 
bidder qualification criteria; 
 
(b) 
technical, administrative and financial envelopes are publicly and 
simultaneously opened, with the price read aloud and recorded; 
 
(c) 
bids shall be evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in the bid 
documents and quantified in monetary terms; 
 
(d) 
contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder following the criteria 
referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph (a), with the lowest evaluated responsive bid; 
and 
(e) 
the requirement for bidders to have a local representative, established in 
the territory of the Borrower, shall not apply.  
 
2. 
Competitive bidding limited to qualified registered firms 
 
Contracts for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $120,000 or 
less may be procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, as defined under the 
preceding paragraph 1 and the following provisions: 
 
(a) 
Prior to a bidding process and in accordance with the provisions of the 
Fiduciary Procedures Manual, a call for expressions of interest shall be published, at the 
beginning of each Fiscal Year, in at least two (2) national newspapers, one in Arabic and 
one in French, with a view to constitute a database, established, maintained and made 
available to the public by the Borrower, comprising qualified firms to be consulted; 
 
(b) 
Each time a bidding process is launched, at least six (6) firms qualified in 
the field of the said bidding process and having responded to the call for expressions of 
interest shall be invited to bid; and 
 
(c) 
The results of the bidding process including (i) the description of the 
contract; (ii) the name of the bidders; (iii) the prices as read aloud at the bid opening 
session; (iv) the name of the bidder awarded with the contract, and (v) the amount of the 
awarded contract shall be made public and posted in the offices of the entity in charge of 
the procurement and kept in the records for audit needs. 
 
Page  14
-13-
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International or National Competitive 
Bidding and Competitive bidding limited to qualified registered firms, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan and the Fiduciary Procedures Manual 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
Treshold 
 
(a) National Shopping 
Equivalent or less than $50,000 
 
(b) Community participation 
Equivalent or less than $40,000 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
Equivalent or less than $100,000 
 
C. Particular 
Method
s
of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. On the basis of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, the short list for consultant services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or less may include entirely national consultants.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
Threshold 
(a) Selection based on 
Consultants’ Qualifications  
 
Equivalent or less than $100,000 
(b) Individual Consultants 
Equivalent or less than $100,000 
 
(c) Single Source Selection 
Equivalent or less than $300,000 for contracts 
with public entities and enterprises for technical 
assistance to the implementation of Sub-projects; 
Equivalent or less than $50,000 for all other 
consultants 
Page  15
-14-
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract for 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (b) each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more; (c) the first three (3) contracts for 
works and the first three (3) contracts for goods, regardless of their estimated cost; (d) 
each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more 
procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; (e) each co
ntract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (f) each contract 
for individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (g) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm on the basis of Single Source 
Selection estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (h) the first three (3) 
contracts for consultants’ services regardless of their estimated cost. All other contracts 
shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to said Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in said Category. 
Page  16
-15-
 
(1) 
 
Category
Goods, works, 
consultants’ services, 
training, Recurrent 
Costs and Sub-
projects under 
approved Annual 
Work Plan  
 
TOTAL 
 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Euros)
78,900,000 
 
_________
78,900,000
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
100 % of the Annual Allocation 
under the Annual Work Plan ending 
December 31, 2007;  
100% of the Annual Allocation 
under the Annual Work Plan ending 
December 31, 2008;  
100% of the Annual Allocation 
under the Annual Work Plan ending 
December 31, 2009; and 
100% of the Annual Allocation 
under the Annual Work Plan ending 
December 31, 2010 
 
For purposes of the table set forth in this paragraph 2, “Recurrent Costs” means expenses 
in relation to operating costs (communication, telecommunication, gas, office supplies 
and equipment expenses) incurred by entities participating in the implementation of the 
Project, training of personnel and strengthening said entities’ capacities, monitoring and 
evaluation activities and studies, within the Annual Work Plan agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Bank and excluding salaries.    
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed five million nine 
hundred thousand Euros (EUR 5,900,000) equivalent may be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement but on or after 
January 1, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1);  
 
 
(b) 
for payments made for expenditures under an Annual Work Plan for 
works and construction activities unless the Borrower shall have 
furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, confirming that no land 
expropriation is required for purposes of said activities; and 
 
Page  17
-16-
(c) 
for payments made for expenditures under an Annual Work Plan, unless 
the 
Bank has determined that evidence of the Borrower’s compliance 
with the Disbursement Indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank relating to such Plan is satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II, paragraph A.1(a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the interim un-audited financial 
reports referred to in Section II, paragraph B.2 of this Schedule, the audits 
referred to in Section II, paragraphs B.3 and B.4 of this Schedule, the Annual 
Report and the Annual Work Plan (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of 
the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall only submit to the Bank the 
Annual Work Plan in accordance with Section II, paragraph A.2 of this Schedule.  
 
3.
 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2011. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project: (a) ensure that the 
Communication Action Plan and the Action Plan for Capacity Development are 
implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the actions and 
calendar therein set forth; and (b) on an annual basis, submit to the Bank for its review 
and approval, an update of said Plans. 
 
Page  18
-17-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
March 15, 2012 
3.46% 
September 15, 2012 
3.55% 
March 15, 2013 
3.64% 
September 15, 2013 
3.73% 
March 15, 2014 
3.82% 
September 15, 2014 
3.91% 
March 15, 2015 
4.01% 
September 15, 2015 
4.11% 
March 15, 2016 
4.22% 
September 15, 2016 
4.32% 
March 15, 2017 
4.43% 
September 15, 2017 
4.54% 
March 15, 2018 
4.65% 
September 15, 2018 
4.77% 
March 15, 2019 
4.89% 
September 15, 2019 
5.01% 
March 15, 2020 
5.14% 
September 15, 2020 
5.26% 
March 15, 2021 
5.40% 
September 15, 2021 
5.53% 
March 15, 2022 
5.67% 
September 15, 2022 
5.94% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
Page  19
-18-
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for sa
id Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date[, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  20
-19-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Action Plan for Capacity Development” means the capacity development and 
peer learning plan dated September 29, 2006, prepared by the Borrower and 
satisfactory to the Bank, describing actions to be taken or caused to be taken by 
the Borrower at, respectively, the national and provincial levels to strengthen 
capacities under Part 4.A of the Project, the respective roles, responsibilities and 
calendar for the implementation of said actions and selected milestones to 
monitor progress in the implementation of said actions, as the same may be 
amended with the Bank’s prior agreement and updated in accordance with 
Section V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Annual Allocation” means the portion of the Loan determined jointly between 
the Borrower and the Bank within the limit of the amount set forth in the Annual 
Work Plan (as this term is hereinafter defined) for the Project; 
 
(c) 
“Annual Report” means an annual report describing, 
inter alia
,
the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Project in the Fiscal Year (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) preceding said report, to be submitted to the Bank in accordance with 
Section II, paragraph A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Annual Work Plan” means an annual work plan for the implementation of the 
Project for a given twelve (12) month period, to be submitted to the Bank in 
accordance with Section II, paragraph A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Category” means the category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004; 
 
(g) 
“CLDH” means a local committee for human development (“Comité local pour 
le développement humain
”); 
 
(h) 
“Communication Action Plan” means the communication action plan dated 
November 2, 2006, prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, 
describing actions to be taken or caused to be taken by the Borrower at, 
respectively, the national and local levels, the respective roles, responsibilities 
and calendar for the implementation of said actions and selected milestones to 
monitor progress in the implementation of said actions, as the same may be 
amended with the Bank’s prior agreement and updated in accordance with 
Section V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  21
-20-
(i) 
“CPDH” means a provincial or prefectoral (“préfecture
”) committee for human 
development (“Comité provincial ou préfectoral pour le développement 
humain
”); 
 
(j) 
“CRDH” means a regional committee for human development (“Comité regional 
de développement humain
”); 
 
(k) 
“Disbursement Indicators” means the disbursement indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Bank, included in the Fiduciary Procedures 
Manual (as this term is hereinafter defined), to measure the progress achieved in 
the implementation of the Project, said indicators to be monitored in accordance 
with Section II, paragraph A.1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same 
may be reviewed from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank; 
 
(l) 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Project Environmental 
Management Plan, at all times satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower 
and submitted to the Bank on September 6, 2006, and setting forth, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the environmental assessment procedures for the implementation of the Project in 
accordance with appropriate environmental standards and guidelines, said 
procedures governing, 
inter alia
,
the screening process determining activities to 
be carried out under the Project requiring an environmental assessment; (ii) the 
environmental mitigation and protection measures in respect of the carrying out 
of the Project; and (iii) arrangements for strengthening monitoring and evaluation 
capacity to ensure the implementation of said Plan, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the Bank’s prior agreement;  
 
(m) 
“Fiduciary Procedures Manual” means the manual, at all times satisfactory to the 
Bank, dated November 13, 2006, prepared by the Borrower, setting forth the 
overall procedures governing the administrative and financial management of the 
Project and the sample formats of Annual Work Plans and Annual Reports and 
including, 
inter alia
,
the Disbursement Indicators and the administrative, 
procurement, accounting, financial management, reporting and auditing 
arrangements, as the same may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s 
prior agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, starting January 1 and ending 
December 31 of each calendar year; 
(o) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005; 
 
Page  22
-21-
 (p) 
“INDH National Coordination Unit” means the INDH National Coordination 
Unit within MOI (as this term is hereinafter defined), responsible for monitoring 
and coordinating the implementation of the Program; 
 
(q) 
“MOI” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of the Interior (“Ministère
de
l’Intérieur
); 
 
(r) 
“Monitoring and Performance Indicators” means the indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Bank, included in the Operations Manuals, to 
measure the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project, said 
indicators to be monitored in accordance with Section II, paragraph A.1 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be reviewed from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(s) 
“Partner” means a public service, a local government (“collectivité locale
”), a 
public enterprise, a public entity (“établissement public
”) or a non- governmental 
organization to which a Sub-grant (as this term is hereinafter defined) is made or 
proposed to be made pursuant to a Partnership Agreement (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) in accordance with Section I, Part C of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Partnership Agreement” means a partnership agreement entered into between a 
Partner and a CRDH, a CPDH or CLDH, as the case may be, for the financing of 
a
Sub-project, in accordance with Section I, Part C of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“Operations Manuals” means, collectively, the operations manuals, at all times 
satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower for the carrying out of, 
respectively, Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 (B) of the Project, and submitted to the Bank on 
November 13, 2006, setting forth, 
inter alia
:
(i) the respective roles and 
responsibilities for the implementation of the Program; (ii) the environmental and 
social requirements in accordance with the EMP and the RPF (as this term is 
hereinafter defined); (iii) the monitoring and evaluation procedures, including the 
Monitoring and Performance Indicators; and (iv) the eligibility criteria, selection 
procedures, participatory processes and terms and conditions for the provision of 
Sub-grants (as this term is hereinafter defined) to Partners (as this term is 
hereinafter defined); as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
Bank’s prior agreement;  
 
(v) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004; 
 
(w) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 
Page  23
-22-
of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs; 
 
(x) 
“Program” means the Borrower’s National Initiative for Human Development 
(“Initiative nationale de développement humain”
or “INDH
”) for the period 
2006-2010, consisting in a poverty reduction program targeting urban 
neighborhoods and rural communes among the poorest and most excluded 
communities, designed to promote multi-sector public and revenue-generating 
investments, with a particular focus on the most vulnerable population and on the 
basis of a participatory process;  
 
(y) 
“Project Area” means the area in which Project activities will be carried out in 
the Borrower’s regions of Tanger-Tetouan, Taza-Al-Hoceima-Taounate, Fez-
Boulmane, Meknes-Tafilalt, Tadla-Azilal, Doukkala-Abda, Rabat-Sale-
Zemmour-Zaër, (Greater) Casablanca, Oriental, Marrakech-Tensift-El Haouz, 
Chaouia-Ourdigha, Gharb-Chrarda-Beni Hsen, and Souss-Massa-Draâ, and the 
Borrower’s provinces of Guelmim, Assa-Zag, Tantan and Tata;    
 
(z) 
“Provincial Competitive Fund” means the Borrower’s fund at the province or 
prefecture level, as the case may be, under Part 4 (B) of the Project, financing 
Sub-projects (as this term is hereinafter defined) selected through a competitive 
process in accordance with said Fund’s Operations Manual; 
 
(aa) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the resettlement policy 
framework, at all times satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower and 
submitted to the Bank on September 29, 2006, setting forth, 
inter alia
:
(i) the 
screening process and requirements applying to land acquisition in connection 
with works and construction activities to be carried out under the Project; and (ii) 
arrangements for strengthening monitoring and evaluation capacity to ensure the 
implementation of said Framework, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the Bank’s prior agreement; 
 
(bb) 
“Sub-grant” means a sub-grant provided under the Project pursuant to a 
Partnership Agreement for the financing of a Sub-project (as this term is 
hereinafter defined), in accordance with Section I, Part C of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(cc) 
“Sub-project” means a specific project to be carried out by a public service, a 
local government (“collectivité locale
”), a public enterprise, a public entity 
(“établissement public
”) or a non- governmental organization under Parts 1, 2, 3 
and 4 (B) of the Project, utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant.
 
