<,  ;   '27 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10936-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
MAY 20, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:10936-BR          Type:  (SAR)
Title: RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRI
Author: MENEZES,B.
Ext.:39324 Room:I7137 Dept.:LAlIN
LAl Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00 = Cr$ 297.87 (June 1991)
US$1.00 = Cr$2565.00 (June 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BC               - Banco Central do Brasil
Central Bank of Brazil
BNDES            - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CBTU             - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Train Company
EBTU             - Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Transport Enterprise
GEIPOT           - Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
GOB              - Governo Federal
Federal Government
M.A.S.           - Ministerio de Acao Social
Ministry of Social Action
MINFRA           - Ministerio da Infra-Estrutura
Ministr, of Infrastructure
MR               - Metropolitan Region
RegiAo Metropolitana
MRJ              - Governo Municipal do Rio de Janeiro
Municipality of Rio de Janeiro
MT               - Ministerio de Transportes
Ministry of Transport
RJ               - Governo Estadual do Rio de Janeiro
State of Rio de Janeiro
TRENSURB         - Urban train of Porto Alegre
Trem Urbano de Porto Alegre
PIU              - Unidade de Implementacao do Projeto
Program Implementation Unit
Other
ATC              - Automatic Train Control
ATS              - Automatic Train Stop
CCE              - Centralized Energy Control
CCO              - Operational Control Center
EMU              - Electric Multiple Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents'                                                                           Pang N.
I.    THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR  ..........................  1
A.  Background ......................... 1
B.    Institutional Framework  .........................................  2
C.    The 1988 Constitution: Its Impact on Urban Transport .....            ............... 4
D.    Key Issues in the Urban Transport Sector  .........          .................... 4
E.    The Bank's Strategy for the Subsector ..........           .....................  6
F.    Past Experience in the Sector: Lessons for the Future   .....         ............... 7
II.    RAIL TRANSPORT IN THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  The Creation and Role of CBTU ............................... 7
B.  The Condition of CBTU Systems ............................... 8
C.    The Institutional Constraints of CBTU   ..........      .....................  9
D.    Modal Integration and CBTU  .........                ...................  10
E.  The Financial Situation of CBTU . ............................ 11
F. Decentralization of CBTU .12
Ill. THE PROJECT .14
A.  Project Objectives and Rationale ............................... 14
B.    Project Description   ..............................  14
C.    Project Components   ..............................  15
D.    Project Organization and Implementation   ............................   16
E.    Implementation Schedule  ..........                ....................  17
F.    Project Cost and Financing  ...........              ...................  17
G. Procurement .17
H. Disbursement, Accounts and Audits .20
1.  Project Monitoring and Reporting .21
J.  Special Review and Mid-Term Project Review .23
K.  Project Economic Evaluation Summary .23
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission which visited Brazil during July 1991 and an appraisal
mission in April 1992. Both missions comprised Messrs. B. Menezes (Mission Chief) and J. Rebelo (Joint Task Manager)
LA11N. The appraisal mission included Messrs. J. Baigorria (Sr. Railway Engineer) LATIE; E. Abbott, LEGLA; and
Consultants: V. Bellia (Civil Engineering); P. Doty (Financial Analysis); L. Villela (State Finances); R. Villela (Urban
Transport Economics); J.L. Collard (Signalling and Telecom); J. Kerr, (Rolling Stock and Workshops); Messrs. S. Gautam
and S. Ahmad helped prepare this report. Messrs. R. Scurfield and L. Thompson (TWUTD) were the Peer Reviewers.
The Sector Division Chief, Acting Projects Advisor, and Department Director are Asif Faiz, Roberto Mosse and Rainer B.
Steckhan.
This project was prepared in parallel with a similar project in the State of Sao Paulo, (LN. 3457-BR), approved by the
Board on March 31, 1992. Some information on Sao Paulo has been retained for comparative purposes.
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.   DECENTRALIZATION. INSTITUTIONAL, AND FINANCIAL POLICY REFORMS  ....                       .... 24
A.    Decentralization   .        ............................................  24
B.    Modal Integration ...................................                                    26
C.    Financial Policy  ...................................  26
V.    EN"IRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ............................. 29
VI.   PROJECT RISKS. AGREEMENTS. AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ..................  30
DETAILED COST TABLES, DISBURSEMENT TABLES, AND CHARTS
1.    Table Ti - Project Components With Detailed Cost Estimates .34
2.  Table T2 - Allocation of Loan Proceeds .37
3.  Table T3 - Schedule of Estimated Disbursments .38
4. Institutional Arrangements .39
5. Flow of Funds/Legal Arrangements .40
6. Load Diagram - Morning Peak Hour .41
ANNEXES
1.    Bank Assistance to the Urban Transport Sector in Brazil .42
2. Traffic Demand and Modal Integration .48
3.    The Rehabilitation Program  ...........................................  53
A.    The Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan  ....................  53
B.    Permanent Way Rehabilitation Works  .........              ......................  59
C.    Construction, Rehabilitation, and Modernization of Stations .....           ...........  65
D.    Rolling Stock Motive Power and Workshops/Depot ......................  68
E.    Signalling, Telecommunications, and Electrification ......................  76
F.    Project Implementation and Monitoring  ..............................  81
G.    Project Implementation Schedule  ..........             ........................  86
4.    Financial Impact of the Project       ..................          ......................  92
A.    Urban Transportation Expenses and Household Income ................... 92
B.    The Impact of Decentralization of the CBTU-RJ on State Finances  ....           ....... 94
5.    Economic, Financial, and Environmental Impact ...........          ..       ................ 98
A.    Economic Evaluation ...........              ................................  98
B.    Financial Evaluation ......   .................................... 103
C.    Environmental Impact of the Project ................................ 111
6.    Selected Documents and Data available in the Project File  ........             ............. 113
PHOTOGRAPHS
MAP: IBRD 23133 - Metropolitan Transport - Decentralization Project CBTU -
Rio de Janeiro System



-         -~~~~~~~~~~~~I
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BorEroAr;          The Federative Republic of Brazil
Imnlnmnoltoa       The Brazilian Urban Train Company (CBTU) and the State of
Aaencies;         of Rio de Janeiro.
Amgunt:            US$128.5 million
Terms:             Repayment In 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Qbk2ectiva
and DscrlDtlon:    The broad project objectives are to lay the foundations for the financial,
institutional and organizational policy changes required to achieve sustainable,
integrated multimodal transport in the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro.
The specific objectives for the proposed project are:
* to assist the Federal Government in its efforts to transfer the CBTU-RJ (Rio
de Janeiro) system to the State in order to enhance its management and
operations;
- to introduce institutional, organizational, and financial policy reforms to
assure CBTU-RJ's long-term financial sustainability (including cost-efficiency
gains, improved multimodal integration, expanded capacity, and substantial
reducticon in subsidies); and
* to contribute to poverty alleviation and environmental Improvement (better
taroetting of subsidies, improved access to work, decreased travel time to
work, reduced congestion and pollutant emissions, and reducted accidents
and fatalities through the provision of safer and more comfortable rail
transport) in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region.
The project includes an Investment Component (IC) and an Institutional
Development (ID) component. The IC component (90% of the loan) includes
civil works and goods to implement the proposed rehabilitation of stations,
track, rolling stock, telecommunications, fencing of the right of way, and
construction of transfer points within stations to integrate CBTU-RJ with other
modes. The ID component (10% of the loan) will consist of the development
and implementation of policies and action programs to: (a) introduce and
establish organizational, financial, and institutional reforms in the urban
transport sector in Brazil, including the implementation of a plan of action for
the transfer of remaining viable CBTU systems to their respective states;
(b) operationalize multi-modal and tariff integration between CBTU-RJ, METRO,
feeder bus systems, passenger ferry services, and non-motorized vehicles,
introduce long-run variable cost-based fare structures for peak and off peak
services, and improve targeting of subsidies; (c) Identify an investment program
to consolidate the rehabilitation and decentralization in CBTU-RJ; (d) study and
recommend different management alternatives, technical improvements, and
financial reforms for improving the operating efficiency of the METRO, CONERJ
and the CTC, including management contracts and franchises or concessions



Iv
to the private sector; and (e) provide technical and management training tc
CBTU staff as recommended In the organization and manpower developmeni
studies (and after decentralization, to the staff of the new State operating
agency), and to staff of other transport agencies participating in the project.
The project is estimated to require five years to implement, at a total cost of
US$272.0 million equivalent with - foreign exchange component of US$139.5
million (51 percent). The project will be managed by a special Program
Implementation Unit (PIU), already established in CBTU for the purpose of
decentralization of the CBTU-Sao Paulo system. The CBTU-RJ will be the
second system to be decentralized. PIU would remain active for the duration of
the project. After decentralization scheduled for Dec. 31, 1993 the entire PIU
will be transferred and incorporated into the RJ-Public Corporation to be set up
for managing the system. This will ensure retention of project management
experience for continuity and consolidation.
Proiect
Benefits:          Substantial quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits are expected from the
provision of increased capacity and safer operations by CBTU, namely,
operating cost savings, time savings for the users, fewer accidents and
fatalities: and employment generation through better spatial integration of
places of residence and employment. hI addition, there will be a positive
environmental impact through the reduction in diesel-operated bus services
(substituted by cleaner electric rail service), _nd consequently lower pollutant
emissions and road congestion with improvements in air quality and ,,oise
pollution. Poverty alleviation will also result from facilitation of access to
employment. An economic evaluation of the project s .ows an Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) of 43% for the investment compone , representing 90% of the
project.
Proiect
Risks:             The main risks are political: possible delays in achieving consensus among the
three levels of government to implement the Protocolo. This could also delay
the transfer of METRO to MRJ in which case RJ would not be able to meet the
operating costs of both the CBTU-RJ and METRO. Other risks include
government reluctance to raise tariffs to allow CBTU-RJ to reach the targeted
working ratios- possible delays in the procurement process, and the adequacy
and timely availability of counterpart funds. Inter-governmental negotiations
have gone well so far. The GOB and RJ are actively preparing for the
Operational Transfer of CBTU-RJ' on January 1, 1994. In parallel RJ and MRJ
are also "fine-tuning" the phasing of different operations and terms of transfer
of METRO. As a condition of effectiveness a supplementary agreement to the
Protocolo is required to help facilitate the transfers. GOB also agreed at
negotiations to cover the differences between working costs and revenues until
the Operational Transfer is effected. Although CBTU has been regularly
adjusting its tariffs, the Government may be tempted to freeze tariffs for long
periods of time, thereby eroding revenues. The contract plans will contain
provisions to protect CBTU-RJ from such imposed freezes. The delays in the
procurement process have been minimized as the CBTU has worked with the
Bank to produce standardized bidding documents for the project. The timely
availability of counterpart funds has been guaranteed under legislation that
prioritizes the use of annual budgetary provisions for parastatal agencies to
meet international and bilateral loan counterpart commitments.  Periodic
implementation reviews, including a mid-term review will monitor compliance
with the counterpart funding commitments.



v
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
ESTIMATED COSTS"                                                       US$ Million
f .:.: .: . o. . :^:.,l .. B.W@5. .....................I....                  Offil
A - INSTITUTIONAL DEV. & ACTION PLAN
Tech. Assistance and
Studies                                                7.08            3.04            10.10
Training                                               0.49            0.27             0.76
B - INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Civil Works                                           61.49           33.11           94.60
Materials                                             14.35           13.90           28.25
Equipment                                              3.06            8.04            11.10
Mechanical Works                                      19.70           69.10           78.80
Supervision of Invest. Program                         5.00            0.00             5.00
. rAL BASE COST                         111.19          117.45          228.65
Physical Contingencies                                10.03           10.85           20.88
Price Contingencies                                   11.33           11.08           22.41
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        132.50          139.50          272.00
FINANCING PLAN                                                            US$ Million
IBRD                                                      -           128.50         128.50
GOB                                                  132.50            11.00          143.50
TOTAL                             132.50           139.50          272.00
1/ Including estimated local taxes and duties totalling US$34.5 million.
2/ Differences in totals may be due to rounding
'STIMATED DISBURSEMENTS: US$ million
Annual                   29.0'        51.0          27.0        16.5            5.0
Cumulative               29.0         80.0         107.0       123.5         128.5
1/ Including initial deposits into the Special Accounts totalling US$1 1.0 million.



RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPQRT DECENTRALIZATQN PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
1. THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Backaround
1.1  Urban Transportation is in a crisis in Brazil. Although the nation has invested heavily
in thb sector over the past 15 years, the effective demand for urban transport services
particularly in major metropolitan regions (MRs), increased by about 82% in the last decade,
and under present pricing policies, exceeds the existing peak hour supply In most MRs. To
add to this capacity shortage, the Brazilian urban transport sector suffu8 from institutional
problems due to a lack of coordination between the three levels of government responsible
for urban transport in the MRs. The New Constitution promulgated in October 1988, clearly
transfers responsibility for urban transport to state and municipal governments. The federally-
owned rail system (CBTU) has been financed and operated independently of the
transportation priorities within MRs. This has led to inefficient modal and tariff integration
and, above all, to a lack of prioritization of urban transport investments. Finally, cost recovery
policies and mechanisms have been so inadequate that some of the systems (particularly the
CBTU) have deteriorated to the extent that they are no longer a safe and reliable means of
transport. The main objective of this project is to support the Federal Government in its
efforts to transfer the CB TU-RJ sub-division to the State of Rio de Janeiro in order to enhance
its operational and financial management.
1.2 The urban poor, who are the main users of the urban train system, bear the brunt of
these problems: (a) shortage of capacity at peak hours resulting in overcrowded (>10
pass/m2) often inhuman conditions, (b) long work journeys (2.5 hours each way) from the
metropolitan periphery to the urban centers, with often more than two modal transfers; and
(c) a high proportion (20%) of their Income used for home to work fares (normally bus plus
rail fares). Expansion of the capacity utilization of the rail based systems has been singled
out by several studies, as the least-cost priority option to increase peak hour capacity in the
MRs especially in Sao Paulo (SP) and Rio de Janeiro (RJ), which between them alone account
for 65% of all urban transport trips. There exists a consensus, that a decentralization of the
CBTU systems, i.e. the transfer of the responsibility for the administration, operation,
financing, and ownership of the CBTU systems in each of the nine MRs, in line with the
provisions of the 1988 Constitution, will make the systems more responsive to their ridership.
This decentralization should be coupled with the implementation of a comprehensive set of
efficiency-related policies which will, among other things, promote modal integration, improve
direct cost recovery, target subsidies, and institutionalize a predictable and sustainable
system for financing the operating shortfall of each MR operating agency, and for expansion
of the systems in the future.
1.3 Urban Growth Fuels Demand for Urban Transport. While the national population almost
tripled, from 52 million in 1950 to 150.5 million in 1990, the urban population quadrupled
from 19 million to 73 million, particularly in Brazil's central-west and southern cities and MRs
and cities (Sio Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and Brasilia), where more employment
opportunities were available. Both rural and urban migrants have gravitated toward these
cities in search of employment. To underline the magnitude of the problems facing the urban
transport sector, it is estimated that the number of trips/day for all urban areas with more
than 100,000 inhabitants jumped from 68 million to 124 million from 1980 to 19s90. and is
expected to reach 180 million in the year 2000 or the equivalent of 1.8 trips/day/person.
Measures to discourage heavy migration from rural to urban areas including a policy to



- 2 -
develop tho country's interior (linteriorizagao), through the provision of basic needs to small
"armers, and upgrading services provision in medium-sized cities, are not sufficient to stem
the continuing migration to large MRs such as Sbo Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, and
to the other urban conurbations around various state capitals. This migration further
Increased the pressures on the existing urban transport systems, making commuting to work
a daily ordeal, especially for the poorest segments of 'ne MRs, which depend mainly on buses
and trains to reach their work places.
Figure 1: Average Annual Population Growth Rate for Brazil and Rio Metropolitan Region
4               .
2~~~
1960 to I070          1970 to 1080            1980 to 1Q87
_Ml Brazil    Rio Metrop. EnnRio Municipal.
: GaEIPOl
B. Institutional Framework
1.4 The institutional framework for urban transport policy and financing (in common with
many sectors in Brazil), has been considerably weakened in the recent past. States and
municipalities, traditionally responsible for the provision of urban infrastructure and services,
became increasingly unable to meet their growing financial obligations.
Federal: In 1964, the Federal Government (GOB) centralized urban policy and
investment decisions by creating the National Housing Bank (BNH) to provide financing for
a broad range of shelter-related services. More than a decade later, in response to growing
transport problems, the Brazilian Urban Transport Company (EBTU) was established in 1976
to implement urban transport policy and to finance urban transport investments. At the same
time, the Brazilian Transport Planning Agency (GEIPOT) was created to assist preparation of
both urban and inter-urban transport policies and investment plans. In 1984, the Brazilian
Urban Rail Company (CBTU) was formed in an effort to separate nationwide inter-city goods
dnd commuter rail services. The CBTU was empowered to take over the planning, operation
and financing of the majority of suburban rail systems, in the MRs. From 1979 to 1985, the
National Urban Development Council (CNDU) had the primary responsibility for urban
development coordination within the GOB and with other levels of Government. In March
1985, the Ministry of Urban Development and the Environment (MDU) was established and



-3-
took over CNDU, BNH and (in Janua'y 1986) EBTU; the urban divisions of GEIPOT were also
merged with EBTU. Since the MDU was responsible for urban transport policy formulation,
these institutional changes were intended to
improve urban development planning and coordination and policy formul"tion. CBTU,
however, remained within the Ministry of Transport (MT). In 1989, as part of a major macro
adjustment effort to reduce the size of the public sector, the GOB abolished both the MDU
and the EBTU, thus eliminating the main federal agency in charge of preparing guidelines and
negotiating financing for the urban transport sector. Thus a first un-pliined step towards
decentralization of responsibility from the national to sub-national levels was initiated,
although the CBru continued as the only federal urban transport agency in the MT, which
was incorporated into the Ministry of Infrastructure (MINFRA) In March, 1990. Two years
later, in March 1992, MT was removed from MINFRA and set up as the Ministry of Transpor.
and Communications (MTC) and in October 1992, MTC was reorganized into two ministries
a Ministry of Transport (MT) and Ministry of Communication (MC).
Figure 2: Brazil Urban Population and Transport Demand - 1980 to 2000
Millions
200                         a
IS0
114
100 
50
Pop.   Total Urban Trips/Day  MRs Only  Other Capital Medium Size ClUes
3                  ( E§3 ~~~1980 :1 1990  _2    )
L-GEIPOT
Local: States and municipalities are respectively responsible for inter-municipal and intra-
municipal transportation services. In the case of Rio de Janeiro for example, the State
regulates the licensing of intermunicipal bus passenger services, owned and operated by the
private sector. It also owns and operates the CTC, responsible for about 30 percent of
intermunicipal bus passenger services. It also owns and operates CONERJ, responsible for
water-borne passenger ferry services across the Bay of Guanabara. The State operates the
METRO, which is owned jointly by the GOB, RJ and Municipality of Rio (MRJ). It has a limited
network confined within the administrative limits - " the MRJ, which is expected to assume
responsibility for METRO operations, starting J-   y 1994, under an Agreement signed in
April 1992 between the GOB, RJ and MRJ. ln..d Municipality also regulates within its
municipal boundaries, the licensing of bus services, which are owned and operated
exclusively by the private sector. It is also responsible for the planning and implementation
of access corridors for non-motorized transport.



-4-
Financing Agency: The National Development Bank (BNDES), which invests In a broad rarnge
of infrastructure sub-sectors, maintasns a role In the financing of urban transport investments
at both the federal and the local levels.
1.5  Given the context of the rapidly changing institutional scenario, there is an urgent need
for reforms to: (a) define the specific roles and responsibilities for urban transport sector
within the ';OB, at the moment, the responsibility is split between the Ministry of Transport
(MT) for the CBTU and the Ministry of Social Action (MAS) for road based urban transport;
(b) improve the interaction among the thres levels of government In urban transport which
is currently weak or non-existent; and (c) strengthen local coordination, especially in the MRs,
to assure proper planning, programming, coordination and monitorinj of the urban transport
services. The lack of some formal coordination entity leads to poor modal integration, a
duplication of investment, and wastage of scarce resources.
C. The 1988 Constitttion: Its ImDact on Urban Transtort
1.6 While tha institutionai framework is weak, the environment for introducing serious and
long-term reforms, is stronger than it has ever been, especially as a consequence of the
provisions under Brazil's Federal Constitution enacted in 1988, which shifted the
responsibilities for urban transport from the GOB to the states and municipalities. It stipulates,
among other things, that the Federal Government would have responsibility for enacting
legislation concerning guidelines in national transport policy; and for transit and
transportation. However, the Federal Government can authorize the states to legislate on
specific questions related to those guidelines. Such legislation would define the contractual
terms (concessions) for public service companies, special conditions and renewal, including
supervision. Such legislation would also define the rights of the users, the tariff policy and
the obligation of maintaining an adequate level of service.
1.7  For sub-national governments, the Constitution authorizes states to organize
themselves, and observe their own charter and laws, as long as the principles stated in the
Federal Constitution are observed. States are allowed to designate metropolitan and
microregions and urban conglomerates, by grouping the neighboring municipalities, in order
to integrate the planning and execution of public serving common interest. Furthermore, the
Constitution states that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to: enact legislation on
matters of local interest; organize and provide for, directly or under a concession, (always
through bidding) the public services of local interest, including public transport, which is
considered an essential service.
1.8  The 1988 Constitution also mandated fiscal reform transferring a significantly larger
proportion of tax revenues from GOB to subnational governments, facilitating the latter to
assume the financial responsibilities accompanying the decentralization of services.
D. Key Issues in the Urban Transport Sector
An informal Bank urban transport sector review has identified three categories of
critical sector issues: (a) institutional; (b) financial and economic; and (c) technical.
1.9 The first set of issues concerns:
* Fine-Tuning Intergovernmental Relations: geared towards a clear definition of their
respective roles in the financing, planning, and operation of urban transport services
in accordance with the 1988 Constitution;



* Creation ot a Coordination Agency
In each MR: formally empowered
for planning, coordineting and
setting priorities for new multi-year
investments in order to (i} assure a     KE". EVENTS SINCE THE 19988
minimum  of planning continuity,      CONSTITUTION AND THEIR IMPACT
and to encourage modal integration      ON URBAN TRANSPORT POLICY
including tariff setting and cost
sharing policies; and (ii)
strengthening  the  technical
capacity  for  transportation            The 1988 - Federal Constitution:
planning, and the economic and
financial  evaluation  of  new        *  Shifted urban.transport.responsibilityt+.
investments especially with the    .     to states and municnIpalities.
proliferation of the proposed light   *  Ld to fiscal redfrm,.placTding:more
rail transit (LRT) systems; and          revenues in the hands of statea and
municipalities. ''
* Regulatory  Reform:  targeted       .    Allows for creation of  metrop-oita:
towards {i) the  elimination  if         regionas,  ..urban   conglomerat!e,
regulatory barriers which might          microregions in ofder todint
prevent  free  entry  and/or             plannien  and exs<utiQn of pubip.
competition  in the  market for          iunctions ...of commonJinteGr..st.
provision  of transport services
especially bus services; lii) the         19.89.: -Extinction of the EBT:
encouragement of market based            (Brazilian- Urban -Tansport
incentives for pollution control to      Company)
minimize the fiscal burden implied
by de facto government subsidies  *      Left. a vacuum at. -e F.ederal leve
to polluters; and (iii) allocating       for overall urban transportopoli,y-
responsibilities for the enforcement  *  Removed  the  major  agen.cy.
of  environmental  and  safety           responsible  for financing  urban-.
regulations  and  definition  of         transport, and the mai  techn'ica.
tougher  standards,  across  .         -nterlocuto for external loans.
government levels.                '        ''Elimina.ed  access -to.teh-nial
support for smaill. muicipalitis
1.10 The  second  set of issues is            .witthout.sptcia,iz t'd f....:
concerned with the reform  of current
financial and  economic  policy  and        *  1993 - Proposed D*Cen'trOfI  a
management towards addressing short             `e .Brazilla  Urban Rai . o.an
term (operations and maintenance) and          (CBT.  t te Sae
long term  (investment) requirements.
Specifically these include:                e  Decentralization of v.baril sste
-to sub*nationaI governm.e'nts,.:     ..
* Cost Recovery and Tariff Policies:     0  Provides 'im-proved  environmtent fo
targeted towards improving the           effic'ient :delivery, coordination `a"n.d:
financial viability  of operating       -fina,ncial policy, etc. for' urb'anI".
entities by (i) setting tariffs which,   transport.
when added to subsidies, cover at
least the long-run variable costs
(defined as out-of-pocket costs
plus depreciation of equipment and     ._.
cost of capital) of the service
provided; (ii) controlling fare evasion; and (iii) moderating demand through setting of
appropriate peak and off-peak pricing;



- 6 -
* Improving the Targeting of Urban Transport Subsidies: to the low income population,
especially the informal sector. Existing mechanisms such as the 'vale de transportew
are intended to provide such subsidies but are only available to those in formal
employment. Only 40% of the target population for which this subsidy was designed
takes advantage of It. In this subsidy, the employer picks up all the urban transport
costs in excess of 6% of the employees' salary. The employer is allowed to deduct
these costs from the Federal Income Tax. Unfortunately, a high percentage of the
target population does not have formal employment and therefore cannot take
advantage of this ostensibly targeted subsidy;
* Improving the Financial Management of Public-Owned Systems: through wide ranging
cost cutting measures, staff rationalization policies, strict adherence to operating
targets through the introduction of Contract Plans, and by appointing more professional
managers to run the mass transit systems; and
* Revamping of Funding Mechanisms and Policies: in order to (i) guarantee adequate
financing of subsidies on a predictable basis (tariff differentiation, contracted budgetary
transfers, etc.) and channelling these to the users (tokens, multimodal passes,
differential tariffs); and (ii) generate resources for the implementation or extension of
the mass transit systems.
1.11 The third set of technical issues relate to:
* Capacity and Safety: the need to increase the supply of adequate cost-efficient peak
hour capacity in order to guarantee an acceptable level of service to the average
commuter, under reasonable safety conditions. This can be done by (i) rehabilitating
and restructuring existing systems, implementing modal integration, and by selectively
expanding services which prove to be the most efficient alternative from the technical,
economic and, especially, financial standpoint; (ii) improving traffic management to
maximize use of available road space and reduce congestion, through route
rationalization for mass transport services, appropriate traffic engineering, and law
enforcement; (iii) reducing traffic and transit accidents through a combination of transit
safety education campaigns, law enforcement and appropriate traffic engineering; and
(iv) exploring and implementing alternative technologies to minimize environmental
problems.
E. The Bank's Strateav for the Subsector
1.12 Urban transport policies would be geared toward the efficient provision of the urban
transport services which are required to restore the economic efficiency of cities, and which
improve access to affordable transportation through directly targeted subsidies to the low-
income populations, which have traditionally received less attention. Policies would be
consistent with the broader transport sector objectives, as well as with the objectives of the
urban sector, and of poverty alleviation.
1 .13 In view of the goals stated above, which encompass economic efficiency, cost
recovery: selective targeting of subsidies to alleviating poverty, administrative convenience
and modal coordination, the Bank's vision for the sector in the short-term (3-5 years) is
oriented towards: li) assisting the three levels of government in formulating and imp.smenting
an urban transport policy consistent with the increased role of subnational governments; (ii)
supporting an emergency program to rehabilitate existing services such as the CBTU rail
services, metro lines and busways, which can easily and quickly increase their efficiency and
their peak hour capacity; (iii) introducing better cost recovery mechanisms including adequate
cost-based peak hour tariffs and fare evasion control in the rehabilitated services in order to
strengthen their financial base; (iv) increasing the efficiency and equity of existing services



-7-
through multimodal tariff and physical integration; (v) promote deregulation and private
sector participation; and (vi) improving the targeting of subsidies to the poor.
1.14 Over the medium term (5-7 years), the Bank's support is expected to shift towards a
focus on promoting a more efficient and financially sustainable market oriented supply of
public transport services.
F. Past Exnerience in the Sector: Lessons for the Future
1.15 Bank support to the urban transport sector has been provided through four urban
transport projects totalling US$540 million, OT which the First, Second and Third Urban
Transport Projects (Loans 1563-BR, 1839-BR, 1 965-BR) were completed. The fourth Urban
Transport Project (Loan 2822-BR) which continued the policy initiated in the Third project,
was canceled when the GOB abolished EBTU.  The first project supporting the
decentralization of CBTU-SP was approved on March 1, 1992.
1, 16 The major lessons learned from previous urban transport sector loans are described in
detail in Annex 1 and can be summarized as follows: (a) because of the complex institutional
framework outiined earlier (see para. 1.4), the coordination between the three levels of
government in urban transport cannot be assumed, and must be dealt with very carefully at
the project preparation level and during project supervision. Institutional arrangements and
agreements should be reviewed in detail durin(! a mid-term project review (para. 3.23); (b)
policy reform must be directed towards promoting modal integration, in order to minimize
distortions resulting from inefficient physical and financial coordination among modes; (c) the
tariff levels should allow for significant cost recovery of working costs and must be
complemented by financing mechanisms which cover the shortfall between operating costs
and revenues; (d) demand forecasts by the Bnrrowers should be carefully scrutinized, and (e)
more attention should be given to issues of maintenance and management of infrastructure.
II. RAIL TRANSPORT IN THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR:
THE ROLE OF CBTU
A. The Creation and Role of CBTU
2.1 Suburban rail services are provided in several of the MRs either by the Brazilian Urban
Railways Transport Company (CBTU) or by State owned entities such as FEPASA in Sio
Paulo and TRENSURB in Porto Alegre. GOB created the Brazilian Urban Rail Company (CBTU)
in 1984, by separating suburban rail passenger services from inter-city services which, at that
time, were being provided by the national railways (RRFSA) on existing rail lines (810 km),
in nine states. GOB's objective was to create an agency fully dedicated to suburban rail
service which could offer a more cost efficient rail service to the MRs than that provided by
the Federal Railways (RFFSA), thereby relieving some of the MRs peak-hour capacity
problems. CBTU operates suburban rail services in Rio de Janeiro (380 km), SaO Paulo (192
km), Recife (52.5 km), Belo Horizonte (33.6 km), Salvrdor (13.5 km), Fortaleza (42 km),
Macei6 (33 km), Joao Pessoa (30 km), and Natal (56 km). The CBTU's nine subdivisions
cover 44 municipalities with a total population of 38 million, and provide daily transportation
service to about 1.9 million passengers. However, CBTU carries less than half the
passengers it could possibly serve, offers a very poor level of service, requires an average
subsidy of US$700 million/year from the GOB and is not reaching the modal share initially
targeted for the system (15%). This target could be easily achieved if it were operating
efficiently. CBTU has fallen short of the goals for which it was created.
2.2   Although CBTU carries less than 8% of all motorized trips in the MRs, it serves the
most poor areas of the MRs, penetrates most city centers and has an estimated latent



demand, in both Sao Paulo and Rio of an estimated 1,000,000 pass/day each in each
14etropolitan area. This is the result of an inefficient operation due to frequent disruptions
o. the system caused by equipment shortages and failures, power supply and overhead
catenary problems, lack of appropriate signalling to decrease headways and frequent
accidents in the rail right of way. The weak financial situation of CBTU is a result of poor
cost recovery mechanisms such as very low tariffs (normally 1/3 of the bus tariffs for
equivalent trip lengths), fare nvasion, a non-commercial oriented management, lack of
appropriate cost accounting and financial management, very weak inventory management
which affects spare part and rolling stock availability and non-existent staff and line
rationalization strategies. All of CBTU's subdivisions are being examined in the light of
present and potential ridership, Including replacement of rail service by more cost effective
modes where appropriate.
B. The Condition of the CBTU Systems
2.3  While the systems in Recife and Belo Horizonte are quite modem and Inspired by recent
European urban rail systems, the systems operated in Rio and Sbo Paulo (Table 2.1) are old
and in very poor condition, lack adequate rolling stock and suffer from frequent operational
disruptions. The latter systems, however carry more than 90% of CBTU's overall daily
ridership. In both megacities, CBTU's ridership consists mainly of the lowest income groups
who live at the fringes of the MR (more than 73% and 58% of CBTU-RJ and CBTU-SP
ridership respectively earn less than 3 minimum wages (Fig.3). The 1.2 million pass./day
ridership in Rio de Janeiro in 1984 has been decreasing mainly due to the lack of peak-hour
capacity and in 1991 had declined to 700,000 pass./day. In CBTU- SP, on the other hand
the ridership went up from about 712,000 in 1984 to about 966,000 pass./day in 1991 and
cannot grow unless there is an increase in train capacity. In Rio, the ridership increased every
time a new train was introduced, suggesting that train capacity there too is a major ridership
determinant. However, any major investment in CBTU must be linked to its decentralization
to improve, among other things, the institutional framework for the interaction between the
three levels of government, modal integration, and financial management.



-9-
Figure 3: CBTU Ridership Income Profile
*0 0
I.   .  .   II=  Wean
-a~~~~~~~ *St &1   of*tqb 
(.a -  a-.d u1anto So 
C. The Institutional Constraints of CBTU
2.4 Over the years, CBTU operations (under federal jurisdiction) have become increasingly
distant from the needs of its ridership. Its management had both insufficient resources and
lack of autonomy to improve the quality of service offered. Operational policy, administrative
directives, personnel management, and most important, the allocation of short and long term
financial resources, have been dictated from a distance and inevitably become hostage io the
changing political, economic and financial scenarios of incoming and outgoing federal
administrations. Industrial action by striking unions, or physical breakdowns of CBTU's
systems in Rio and Sao Paulo often result in paralyzing rail transport services, with
consequent chaos in road based public transport and traffic management in the MRs, leading
to significant losses in economic productivity. Since May 1990, CBTU has been under a new
management and considerable improvements have been made (see para 2.9). However,
these gains would be shortlived unless the institutional framework is changed to improve the
interaction and "modus-operandi" between the three levels of government, and the plant and
equipment are rehabilitated to provide an acceptable level-of-service to the main users.
2.5 There is a general consensus for the need of a three-pronged approach to (a)
decentralize the responsibility for policy and operations of the CBTU to the local level as
mandated by the Constitution; (b) set up a Local Coordination Agency (LCA) in each MR,
recognized by all levels of government, and with the authority and also the means to promote
and ensure modal integration; and (c) introduce appropriate reforms (such as efficient pricing,
removal of entry barriers and other deregulation measures). A well managed decentralized
CBTU can be sustainable, if the LCA is effective. Ideally, the LCA should be a consensus
building body which priorities investments, promotes modal integration and allocates
subsidies in a quasi deregulated environment, and not a commandlcontrol agency. The LCA
would have representatives from each level of government, the operators, and the users.
Furthermore, this agency would have the responsibility to advise and recommend the
allocation of resources in response to market forces and within specific targeted poverty
alleviation objectives. This type of coordinating entity exists in major cities throughout the



- 10 -
world but not in Brazil. Hitherto, the main barriers to the creation of such entities In Brazil,
have been the reluctance at each level of government, to give up traditional control of
investments and resource allocation within their respective jurisdictional areas. The absence
of such LCAs to plan, evaluate and priorities urban transport sector policy investments in the
MRs, has been the main obstacle to effective physical and tariff modal integration.
Table 2.1: Comparative Data for the CBTU-RJ and CBTU-SP Networks
Track Length (km)                                        739                     407
Rolling Stock (EMUs)                                     358                     180
# of Stations & Stops                                    127                       59
Average # of pass/day (000's)                            660                     940
Employees (Dec/90) Total number                       11,298                   4,457
Of which Operating                                     9,025                   3,802
Pass. x km/day (1991) (000's)                         14,786                  13,028
Costs/pass.km US$ (1991)                               0.054                   0.026
Monthly Cost US$ (000's)                               9.640                   3.988
Working Ratio (%)                                        934                     423
Source: CBTU, July 1991
D. Modal Intearation and CBTU
2.6 CBTU systems are not well integrated with the other urban transport modes except in
Sao Paulo where a major effort promoted and sustained by the METRO has resulted in good
physical and tariff integration among the several modes. The construction of well located
transfer terminals was the catalyst for such an efficient integration. In Rio de Janeiro, there
is very little modal integration; this discourages the use of two or more complementary
modes, increasing the overall fares for those users who need to use two modes or more to
get to work. In general, the lack of modal integration has affected considerably the ridership
of all CBTU systems. In Belo Horizonte (DEMETPO) and in Recife (TRANSREC), both systems
have been recently modernized but suffer the consequences of inadequate modal integration.
Similarly, Porto Alegre's rail system (TRENSURB) financed by the Bank's Second Urban
Transport Project also suffers from this lack of modal integration. As a result of poor
coordination between the different levels of government, and among agencies involved in its
planning and operations, CBTU's ridership"y is well below original forecasts contributing to
growing financial deficits. Modal integration of the urban transport systems serving the MRs
ought to be a top priority in the sector. The proposed project includes several meastires to
assure better integration of the CBTU system with the other modes.
Source: CBTU
E. Financial Situation of CBTU
1/ While modal integration is desirable and recommended, it can only succeed In increasing ridership If the
user sees considerable financial advantages in utilizing the combined transport option, and the bus
operators see financial advantages in serving the rail stations, and the regulatory agency encourages such
integration.



- 11 - 
Figure 4: Average Number of Passengers/day Transported by CBTU-RJ & CBTU-SP
1000 Paseangers/Day
1.200                                             T
* .000 r    .                                                  -- -
"GO) --- - -                                   _      _-
CBTU-RJ
4003                                                        ~  __,L_
44O
200_                                                   _
0
Veer
* CBU-SP CBTU-RJ
2.7 As in most urban rail systems throughout the world, CBTU's operating revenues are
insufficient to cover operational expenses, so that it requires, at present, massive annual
subsidies. These subsidies averaged US$708 million/year during the 1988-1990 period. The
shortfall in CBTU revenues is mainly due to low tariffs, which are Government imposed for
"social" reasons; and to high tariff evasion (almost 11 % of ridership) due to lack of adequate
control at stations. Until recently, CBTU tariffs were controlled by the Federal Government
and in general, were about one-third of the urban bus tariffs in the MR. Unlike CBTU tariffs,
the urban bus tariff, the intermunicipal bus tariffs and the metro tariffs are set by either the
municipality or the State.
2.8  In 1990, while CBTU farebox revenue was US$0.11/passenger, its per-passenger
working cost, (i.e., cost, not including depreciation and interest) was US$0.96. The ratio
between working costs and operating revenues (working ratio) was respectively 9.2, 14.8
and 8.7 in 1988, 1989 and 1990. Table 2.2 shows condensed income statements for CBTU
as a whole for 1988, 1989 and 1990. It also shows a breakdown of Government subsidies
to the system. The total subsidy per paying passenger in the CBTU as a whole, ranged from
$1.50 to $0.98 from 1988 to 1991 or on average about ten times the per-passenger
revenues collected.
2.9  lr August 1991, the Government liberated the tariffs and is allowing CBTU to adjust
them more in line with the other transport modes, reserving, however, the right of an ex-post
review. During the last year this tariff freedom enabled CBTU's operating revenues to
increase from 10% to 20% of working costs. Furthermore, CBTU has also been allowed to
establish differential tariffs in different systems instead of an uniform tariff across all
systems. CBTU's new management also embarked on a cost reduction program, including
staff rationalization, which reduced personnel from 22,900 to 17,600 (or 23%) since March
1990.
2.10 The improvement of CBTU's financial situation can only be achieved through a
combination of higher "paying" passenger demand, tariffs which are as close to working
costs as possible, and a comprehensive cost reduction program. The existence of repressed
demand indicates consumer willingness to pay higher tariffs. Better, more reliable level of
service is required, however, and tariff evasion must be reduced or eliminated. This can only



- 12 -
be achieved by a rehabilitation of track and stations, equipment and systems. Although
tariffs have recently been increased, these are far from the level necessary to decrease
dependency on subsidies (paras. 4.10-4.15). Tariffs should progress, as fast as they can,
to 60-70% of an acceptable working cost. However, it is recognized that, there are
affordability issues which are discussed in detail in Annex 4A. Notwithstanding those issues,
a higher tariff is possible and desirable. Finally, a comprehensive cost reduction program is
already underway and requires additional staff cuts, better inventory management and
improved preventive maintenance. All these aspects are taken into account in the proposed
Project (para 3.22 (c)).
F. Decentralization of CBTU
2.11 In summary, since the mid 1980's, the CBTU has lost more than 1 million
passengers/day in its Rio and S. Paulo subdivisions which, at present, are only transporting
1.5 million passengers/day. This is the result of an inefficient operation due to frequent
disruptions of the system caused by equipment shortages and failures, power supply and
overhead catenary problems, lack of appropriate signalling to decrease headways and
frequent accidents which disrupt rail services. The deferred maintenance pattem experienced
by CBTU is due to poor maintenance policies and a weak financial situation resulting from:
(a) a heavy dependence on the cash-strapped federal government for operating subsidies; (b)
poor cost recovery mechanisms such as very low tariffs and fare evasion; (c) a lack of
appropriate cost accounting and financial management; (d) very weak inventory management
which affects spare part and rolling stock availability and (e) non-existent staff and line
rationalization strategies.
2.12 The GOB has decided to transfer sub-divisions of the CBTU to the respective States
and has set itself a December 1994 deadline to accomplish this goal in the case of CBTU-RJ.
To facilitate this decentralization, it has decided to embark on an urgent physical rehabilitation
and financial restructuring program for the CBTU-SP and thereafter the CBTU-RJ subdivision,
through which it intends to improve overall operational performance and reduce operating
expenses, and has approached the Bank for financial and technical support. The rationale for
such strategy is that CBTU's transfer to the States will allow local Governments direct
participation in their planning and operations, better monitoring and integration with other
urban transport services under their jurisdiction in the MRs and, consequently, will lead to
cost-efficiency gains which, when combined with policy and tariff reforms, will improve the
level of service and produce a substantial reduction of government subsidies to rail transport.
The Bank has approved a loan for the decentralization and rehabilitation of CBTU-SP on
March 31, 1992. It was signed on September 3, 1992. The project proposed in this report
is similar in scope but the need for rehabilitation of the CBTU-RJ facilities is clearly more
urgent than in CBTU-SP. The project was delayed pending resolution of institutional
arrangements between the Federal and State Government, and receipt by the Bank, of a firm
commitment from the State Government that it would be willing to receive and operate the
CBTU-RJ system. An Agreement of Intent (Protocolo) was signed between the GOB and the
State on April 9, 1992, thus permitting a resumption of project processing.



- 13 -
Table 2.2 CBTU Statement of Income 1988-1991
(millions of US dollars)
PASSENGER STATISTICS:
Paying per day (000)                   1,583         1,612  |    1,542          1,536
Average fare (US cents)                $0.12         $0.08  |    $0.11          $0.19
INCOME:
Farebox revenues                         $57          $41           $50  |       $68
Operations subsidy                       573          710           532  |       355
Total                              630           751          582  J        423
COSTS AND EXPENSES:
Working costs                            524          602  |        430          304
Interest                                  67          189  4        174          221
Depreciation                              78            54           38           83
Other, net                                31            99           54            69
Total                              700           945          695           677
Net loss *                              ($70)       ($194)       ($113)        ($254)
Working cost ratio                       9.2          14.8          8.7           4.5
SUMMARY OF SUBSIDIES:
Operational-                               .
Working costs                           $524         $602          $430         $304
Interest                                  49           108          102           51
Depreciation                               0             0            0            0
Sub Total                         573           710          532           355
Capital-
Debt payments                             51            35           56           49
Investment                                90            33           44           45
Sub Total                          141           68           100           94
Total subsidies                         $714         $778          $632         $449
SUBSIDIES AS A % OF COSTS:
Operational Subsidy'                86%    |          84%           83%          58%
Capital Subsidy2                         88%          85%           85%          64%
SUBSIDIES PER PAYING PASSENGER:
Operating                              $1.20         $1.47        $1.15         $0.77
Capital                                0.30          0.14         0.22         $0.21
Total                                  $1.50         $1.61     $1.37           $0.98
Does not include exchange rate and inflation adjustments
1/ Includes Working costs, Investment and Depreciation
2/ Includes Debt payments and Investment



- 14 -
Ill. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives and Rationale
3.1  The broad objectives of the project are to lay the foundations for the financial,
institutional and organizational policy changes required to achieve sustainable integrated
multimcdai transport in the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro. The specific objectives
are: (a) to support the Federal Government in its efforts to transfer the CBTU-RJ subdivision
to the State of Rio de Janeiro in order to enhance its management and operations; (b) to
strengthen Institutional, organizational and financial policy reforms in the CBTU-RJ to assure
its long-term financial sustainability (including cost-efficiency gains, improved multimodal
integration, expanded capacity, and substantial reduction in subsidies); and (c) to contribute
to poverty alleviation and environmental improvement (facilitating access to work, decreasing
trip time to work, the reduction of congestion, and the reduction of accidents and fatalities
through the provision of safer and more comfortable rail transport).
3.2 The Bank's assistance strategy in Brazil is to support policies and investments that will
encourage economic growth and social development in a context of macroeconomic stability.
The primary emphasis is on efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public
sector and the appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. The
proposed project objectives support this strategy, namely: (a) to promote financial viability
and reform of public enterprises, including decentralization to various levels; (b) to contribute
to poverty alleviation; and (c) to reduce Government subsidies through better cost recovery
policies. From a multimodal perspective and given the forecast travel demand, and the cost
of alternative modal options, CBTU's rehabilitation will produce quicker and higher benefits
than investments in other modes. Furthermore, the proposed project is in agreement with
the GOB's stated desire to transfer urban transport to the states and municipalities and
improve the efficiency of delivery of urban transportation services. Through its involvement
in this project, the Bank has helped in accelerating the decentralization process and
stimulating a thorough review and improvement of sub-sector policies--particularly cost-
recovery, financing and modal integration--at the federal, state and municipal levels.
B. Proiect Description
3.3 The project includes an Investment Component (IC) and an Institutional Development
(ID) component. The IC component (90% of the loan) includes civil works and goods for the
proposed rehabilitation and improvement of stations, track, track machinery, workshops,
rolling stock, power supply, telecommunications, fencing of the right of way, and
construction of transfer points within stations to integrate CBTU with other modes. The ID
component (10% of the loan) consists of the development and implementation of policies and
action programs to: a) promote organizational, financial and institutional reforms for
operational efficiency, including improved cost recovery; (b) operationalize physical and tariff
integration between CBTU-RJ, feeder bus systems and non-motorized vehicles; introduce long
run variable cost based fare structures to differentiate between reflect peak and off peak
services and to improve targeting of subsidies; (c) prepare an investment program to
consolidate the rehabilitation and decentralization of CBTU-RJ; Cd) study and recommend
management alternatives, technical improvements and financial reforms for improving the
operating efficiency of the METRO, the CTC, CONERJ, including management contracts and
franchises or concessions to the private sector; (e) help increase private sector participation
in CBTU-RJ operations and (f) provide technical and management training to the staff of
CBTU and other transport agencies participating in the project as recommended in the
organization and manpower development studies.



- 15 -
C. Proiect Components
The Policy and Institutional Development Action Plans
3.4 CBTU's decentralization is not by itself a guarantee that the individual subdivisions will
be better managed than its predecessors. Institutional and policy reforms are needed to
create an enabling environment for commercially oriented management and operations and
strengthen the financial management of the system, particularly the cost recovery
mechanisms. Furthermore, actions are needed to change the environment in which CBTU
operates in order to facilitate modal integration and promote long term sustainability. The
basic sub-components of the institutional and policy package are summarized below:
(i) Decentralization: The first set of Actions Plans concerns the actual decentraization
process including: (a) institutional and organizational arrangements; (b) patrimonial
agreement on the valuation and assets to be transferred; (c} personnel management
relating to transfer of personnel, pension benefits, and miscellaneous human resource-
related issues; (d) legal and administrative aspects for decentralization; (e) financial and
economic aspects including a study of short and long-term financial impacts of the
transfer; (f) engineering outlining a detailed handover timetable of rehabilitated rail
sections; (g) physical integration with the on-going transport infrastructure projects of
the host municipalities (including the construction of bus terminals with the
participation of the private sector, and bicycle facilities).
Iii) Management: The second set of Action Plans is designed to improve the rmanagement
of the new CBTU/RJ system and other agencies (METRO, CTC, CONERJ) including:
(a) preparation and implementation of a manpower development plan, to help
streamline management and operations staffing in each of the agencies; (b)
development and implementation of cost accounting and management information
-                     systems and a financial management study; (c) an improved inventory management
since lack of spares is one of the main causes for the low rolling stock availability; (d)
a program to subcontract maintenance and other operations to the private sector;
(e) progress to increase non-operating revenues by renting station space, advertising,
and CBTU-owned real estate; (f) technical assistance and training for staff at all levels
as proposed in the manpower plan.
(iii)  Modal Integration: The objective of the third set of Action Plans is to support the
policy framework, and provide practical recommendations for implementing modal
integration to reduce inefficiencies across modes including: (a) a tariff study focused
on achieving multi-modal tariff integration, including its operationalization; (b) updating
of the transport portion of the Master Plan for the Metropolitan Region Rio de Janeiro
with emphasis on route rationalization and modal and tariff integration; (c) CTC route
rationalization study; and (d) a study to integrate METRO and CONERJ operations.
This component will also include training and technical assistance as set out in Annex 3A.
The Rehabilitation Program
3.5 This program is designed to rehabilitate the infrastructure and equipment of CBTU-RJ
to a level which will allow it to meet operational and financial targets (para. 3.22). It includes
the following components:
3.6 The track rehabilitation program would consist of: (a) civil works, including the
improvement of drainage systems on about 12 line-km, the rehabilitation of 8 bridges and
175 m of culverts, the construction of 3 pedestrian overpasses, the construction of about



- 16 -
3,100 m2 of retaining walls, 2,200 m of fences along the right of way and 16,000 m3 of
earthworks for improving the road-bed; (b) track improvements including the replacement of
rails sleepers, fastenings, ballast and rail switches, on selected sections for a total of about
243 track-km (D. Pedro Il-Deodoro, Deodoro-S.Cruz, Deodoro-Japeri, D.Pedro lI-B.Roxo,
B.Maua-Saracuruna corridors), and the laying of 4.5 km of double track on the new section
C.Elfseos-Saracuruna at the end of B.Maud-Gramacho corridor (252 km equivalent) (Map IBRD
23133R), and (c) rehabilitation of track maintenance equipment and spare parts for the
maintenance of track machinery. The passenger station program would consist of the
modernization and rehabilitation of 37 stations (including fences).
3.7 The rolling stock program would consist of: (a) the rehabilitation of 80 wagons and 34
electric multiple units (EMU's); and (b) the acquisition of 9 second hand and/or reconditioned
diesel locomotives. The workshop program would consist of: (a) the construction of 2
maintenance depots for the electric multiple units including washing plants (Paciancia and
Bario de Maua); (bi rehabilitation and modernization of 3 workshops (Deodoro, E. De Dentro
and Jose Dos Reis); and (c) miscellaneous maintenance equipment for workshops and depots.
3.8  There are no signalling components in the CBTU-RJ proposed program.  The
telecommunications program includes the installation of: (a) train loudspeaker systems in 216
trains to allow communications between the driver and the users; and (b) the installation of
35 station clocks. The electrification program will consist of the electrification (overhead
catenary) of 4.5 km of track between C. Eliseos - Saracuruna.
D. Proiect Organization and Implementation
3.9 The project will be managed by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) specially created
in CBTU, (see Chart 1). CBTU and the State have agreed that the PIU will continue to manage
the execution of the project after the Operational Transfer of the CBTU-RJ system to the
State. This will ensure the continuity of project management experience acquired prior to
Operational Transfer and will prevent delays which could occur due to an eventual change
of the project implementation team before the completion of the project. To manage and
guide the "software" aspects of the project (political, legal, administrative, institutional, and
so forth), through the transition and until December 1994, an intergovernmental General
Coordination Committee will coordinate the work of a number of task forces, which will
carry out strategic studies on terms of reference agreed with the Bank during negotiations.
3.10 Actual execution of the various action programs would be the responsibility of CBTU's
respective Directorates, with support from CBTU-RJ and with appropriate external technical
assistance. The Federal Government through CBTU, the State of RJ through its State
Secretary of Transport and, in some cases, the Municipality of RJ, will participate jointly in
most of the action programs. A separate and independent Monitoring and Audit consultant
will be contracted, reporting directly to the President of CBTU.
3.11 During negotiations, agreement was reached on: (a) staffing of the PIU which will
include a unit chief with relevant project management and engineering experience, a
procurement specialist, a financial analyst and a transport systems planner; (b) the type of
project management information system (PMIS) required to monitor the execution of the
project and the type of reports to be submitted to the Bank ; and (c) the Project
Implementation Program included as a special schedule to the CBTU Project Agreement.



- 17 -
E. Implementation Schedule
3.12 The GOB and the State of RJ have given high priority to this project, and its
implementation has been scheduled over a five-year period (1993-1997), compared with the
Bank's average disbursement profiles for similar projects (6.5 years). An overall
implementation schedule and a specific procurement schedule are shown in Annex 3G.
3.13 The April 1992 Protocolo, included among other things, that RJ would assume
responsibility for operating the CBTU-RJ starting January 1, 1994, although the Operational
Transfer (see para. 4.3(a)) will be only completed by the target date of December 31, 1994.
Project implementation by the CBTU would continue simultaneously to completion in
December 1997. This would provide an opportunity for a phased transfer of knowledge to
the State Entity linked to an intensive manpower training program.
F. Proiect Cost and Financina
3.14 The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$272.0 million including physical
and price contingencies, with an estimated foreign cost of US$ 139.4 million or about 51 %
of total cost. Taxes and duties are expected to account for about 13% of total costs or
US$34.5 million equivalent. Total project cost includes US$1 1.1 million for the policy and
institutional development action plans, and US$260.9 million for the rehabilitation program
(Table 3. 1), and Tables T1 to T3. Physical contingencies add up to US$20.9 million, or 9%
of the base cost, and price contingencies are estimated at US$22.4 million or 9% of the base
cost plus physical contingencies, estimated on the basis of the disbursement schedule (an
estimated implementation period of 5 years), and of the following forecast of price escalation
for both local and foreign expenditures expressed in US dollars: 2.8 % in 1993, 3.9% in
1994, 3.9% in 1995, 3.8% in 1996, and 3.8% in 1997. Base costs correspond to June
1992 prices. The costs of goods are based upon supplier quotations for sirr,ilar locally-
produced and imported items. The cost of civil works for the first year of the project track
rehabilitation workshop buildings and stations are based upon detailed engineering designs
and prevailing unit prices. Cost estimates for consultant services are based upon prevailing
local and foreign man-month rates; they provide for the cost of local transport, office
equipment and other minor items and, where appropriate, international travel and per-diem.
3.15 The project would be financed from the proposed Bank loan of US$128.5 million (or
47% of the project cost), and Federal Government contributions of about US$ 143.5 million
equivalent or 53% of the project cost (Tables Ti to T3). During loan negotiations, agreement
was reached on: (a) the project financing plan; and (b) provisions of all necessary counterpart
funds for the project by the GOB.
G. Procurement
3.16 All project components financed under the proposed Bank loan would be procured in
accordance with the "Bank's Guidelines for Procurement" (May 1992). Details are shown
in Table 3.2.
3.17 Procurement procedures would be as follows:
(a) contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$300,000 equivalent each, and
contracts for civil and mechanical works estimated to cost more than US$5.0 million
equivalent each, would be procured through ICB procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines. In ICB procurement of goods, local bidders would be granted a margin of
preference by adding 15% of the CIF price (or the applicable custom duties, whichever



- 18 -
is lower) to the evaluated value of the foreign bidsa'. It is anticipated that the
procurement of spare parts needed for the rehabilitation of existing equipment such as
trucks, cranes and earthmoving vehicles, at an estimated cost of US$ 1.7 million,
would be procured through LIB (Limited International Bidding) procedures; contracts for
materials, equipment and mechanical works costing less than US$300,000 equivalent
each, up to an aggregated value of US$6.8 million may be awarded following LCB
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) civil works of US$5.0 million equivalent or
less, up to an aggregate amount of US$21.0 million (Table 3.2) would be awarded
through local competitive bidding procedures and foreign bidders would have the
opportunity to compete; in addition, prequalification procedures would be followed for
the procurement of all contracts for civil works, excepting track rehabilitation works;
and {c) consultant services, expected to aggregate to about US$18.2 million (including
works supervision), would be procured following the Bank "Guidelines for the use of
Consultants" (August 1981).
3.18 All ICB procurement (contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalen* of
US$300,000 or more, and all contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5.0
million or more), which overall represent about 83% of all Bank-financed goods and civil
works, would be subject to the Bank's prior review of the procurement documentation.
CBTU's management has the capabilities to handle adequately the procurement processes
required for this project. During appraisal, agreement was reached with CBTU: (i) on the use
of standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and/or civil works, under LCB
and ICB procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and the guidelines for the selection of
consultants; and (ii) a stand3rd letter of invitation and sample contract were agreed at
negotiations. CBTU has submitted to the Bank for review a complete set of bidding
documents to be used as samples for all ICB (in english) and LCB tenders under the project.
In addition, procurement documentation for the two first LCB contracts before and after
decentralization takes place, regardless of value, will be reviewed by the Bank. Procurement
information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
(b) comprehensive quarterly progress reports to the Bank by the Borrower (assisted by
consultants), indicating:
*    revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, inc:uding
best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingency;
*    revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award, and completion time for individual contracts;
*    compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement; and
(c) a completion report by the Borrower within three months of loan closing date.
2/A local bidder is a Brazilian firm (or a consortium) offering goods containing components manufactured In
Brazil and representing at least 60% of the value of the complete goods.



- 19 -
TABLE 3.1 CBTUJ-RJ: Project Cost Estimates and Bank Financing
(US$ millon equivalent)
BASIC COST                     BANK PARTICIPAI
CBTU-RJ PROJECT            LOCAL   FOREIGN  EXCi TAXES  TAXES  TOTAL I  US$   T   of T
A - Clvil Works
a - Rehab. of P.Wav Inftras.        4.89        2.63          R.62     0.90    7.52       2.65
b - Rehab. of P.Way Supers.         8.25        4.44         11.17     1.52    12.69      4.47
c - Construction Supers.            0.91        0.49 _        1.23     0.17    1.40       0.49
d - Track Renewal                   3.23        1.75          4.40     0.60    5.00       1.76
o - Stations                       31.80       17.12         43.05     5.87    48.92     17.22
- Workshops                        11.28        6.07         15.27     2.08    17.35      6.11
_g - nst. Aerial Network            0.16        0.08          0.21     0.03    0.24       0.081
h - inst. Signalling Systems        0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00    0.00       0.00_
I - Inst. Telecom.                  0.96        0.52          1.30     0.18    1.48       0.521
Subtotal Civil Works                 61.49       33.11         83.25    11.351   94.61     33.301
B - Materials                             -__--__-_ -
a - Rails                           1.32        3.08          3.66     0.75    4.41       3.661
b - Sleepers                       9.64         5.19         12.31    2.52    14.84      12.31
c - Fastenings                      1.92        4.47          5.30     1.09    6.39       5.30
d - Ballast                         1.27        0.69          1.72     0.24    1.96       o.oo
e - Turnouts                        0.16        0.37          0.44    0.09     0.53       0.44
f-Others                        __0.04,         0.10,         0.11,    0.021    0.14      0.11
_Sub-total Materials            _    14.351      13.901        23.55     4.70    28.251     21.82_
C - Equipments
a - Aerial Network                  0.31        0.72          0.86     0.181    1.031     0.34
b - Signalling                      0.00        0.00          0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00
c - Telecommunications              0.67        1.56          1.85     0.38    2.22       0.74
d - Track Machinerv                 0.00        0.00°         0.00     0.00    0.00       0.00 
e - Workshop Machinery              0.73        1.71          2.03     0.42    2.45       2.03
f - Locomotives              -      1.35        4.051         4.75     0.65    5.40       0.00 
Sub-total Equipments                  3.06        8.04          9.49     1.62    11.10      3.11
D - Mechanical Works
a - Rehabilitation of EMUs     .   18.281      54.83         64.33     8.77    73.11     35.93_
b - Rehabilitation of Wagons          0.50        1.51          1.77     0.24,    2.02       1.77
o - Rehab. of track Machinery      0.,          2.76,         3.24,    0.44    3.68       3.24,
Sub-total Mechanical Works           19.701      59.10         69.341    9.461   78-801    40.941
E - Technical Assistance
| a - Supervision of Invest. Program  1    5.00!  0.001         4.401    0.601    5.001      2.201
b - Project Monitorlng              1.331       0.571         1.671    0.231   1.901      1.241
o - Studies and Technical Assistance    5.751   2.471         7.231    0.991    8.221     5.351
IF - Training                    1   0.491        0.271         0.671    0.091    0.761      0.511
ITotal Basic Costs (June92 prices)  I 111.14    117.461       200.61 1  29.041 229.651   108.481
[Physical Contingencies          1  10.031       10.851         17.481    2.651   20.1 41    9.551 
I Price Contingencies            I  11.331       11.081         19.361    2.851   22.211    10.431
|TOTAL PROJECT COST              1 132.501     139.391       237.501  34.501 272.001   128.50
Source: CBTU



- 20 -
Table 3.2: Procurement Arrangements Estimated Cost in US$ Million "
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....... .........
A. Civil Works and Systems             96.69       21.04                                  117.78
(34.03)      (7.33)                                (41.36)
B. Materials                           30.49        0.16             .        2.25         32.91
(26.31)      (0.14)                                (26.441
C. Equipment                            4.52        0.77          1.70        6.43         13.40
(3.7.)      (0.65)       (1.4)r'                   (5.79)
D. Mechanical Works                    83.33        5.82                                   89.15
(40.96)      (3.76)                                 (44.72)
E. Technical                                                    17.84                      17.84
Assistance2_                                                  (10.4)                   ( 10.42)
F. Training
Travel and Expenses3'                                           0.39                      0.39
(0.36)                    (0.36)
Consultants                                                     0.50                      0.50
(0.40)                    (0.40)
TOTAL                         215.04       27.79        20.41         8.69       271.93
(104.05)     (11.88)      (1 2.57)                   (128.5,1
1/   Figures in parenthesis indicate proposed financing by the Bank.
/    Consulting services.
A/   Items not involving procurement.
4/    Not Bank-financed.
_/    LIB, Umited International Bidding
H. Disbursement. Accounts and Audits
3.19 Disbursements of the Bank loan have been scheduled over a f.\ e year period (FY1994-
FY1 998) (Table T2 and T3 "disbursements"). Within the 47% level 3f cost-sharing, the Bank
loan would be disbursed for: (a) works: (i) civil works vrehabilitation of track
infra/superstructure, stations, workshop buildings, ele^trification, and telecommunications,
at a rate of 40% of total expenditures; and (ii) rolling stock (rehabilitation and modernization
of EMUs and wagons) at a rate of 56% of total expenditures; (b) goods (purchases of rails,
impregnated timber and concrete sleepers, fastenings, turnouts, insulated joints and track
maintenance and workshop equipment) at a rate of 100% of CIF costs of foreign
expenditures or, for bids awarded to local manufacturers, 100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory costs excluding taxes), and 80% of iocal expenditures for other items procured
localiy; (c) technical assistance; and (d) training of personnel, at a rate of 50% of local
consultants residing in Brazil and for training in Brazil, or 100% of foreign expenditures for
other consultants and for training abroad.
3.20 In order to reduce the time period during which CBTU would pre-finance the Bank's
share of project costs, a Special Account in US dollars, with initial deposits of US$1 1.0
million, would be established in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, for both foreign
and local expenditures. Withdrawals of expenditures against contracts for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or less, for consultant services equivalent to



- 21 -
US$75,000 or less, and all contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5.0
million or less, would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), certified
by CDTU; the supporting documentation would be retai..ed by CBTU and would be available
for review during project supervision.  Retroactive fiiiancing amounting to no more than
US$10.0 million would be permitted for project related expenditures incurred after August
1, 1992.
3.21 During loan negotiations, it was confirmed that CBTU has made provisions for: (a)
counterpart funds required for project expenditures according to work and procurement
schedules; (b) retaining independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to audit its accounts,
including the projects accounts, In accordance with appropriate auditing principles; Ic)
forwarding the annual audit reports to the Bank not later than four months after the end of
the fiscal year; and that (d) the Special Account would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
I. Proiect Mo'i3torina and Regorting
3.22 Three levels of project monitoring are envisaged, in addition to the independent
Monitoring and Audit under the Office of the President (para. 3.10):
(a) Project Implementation : would be monitored against a targeted time-schedule, starting
well in advance in July 1993 with the completion of bidding documents, and thereafter
with the issuance of bid invitations for the various project components, followed by
contract awards and project execution ending December 31, 1997 (Annex 3G) and key
events towards decentralization.
(b) Operational Performance Targets: would include the physical and operational
performance targets shown below in Table 3.3).
Table 3.3: Physical and Operational Performance Targets
(Base Year = 1991)
-s                                                      -_    QW 
Pass. Transported (000's)/day    630       670         810     .1,000     1,140      1,
Track Rehab. (km)                            24         89         68        46
Headway (minutes)            Min. 10    Min. 10    Min. 5     Min. 5     Min. 5    Min.
Max. 20   Max. 20    Max. 15    Max. 15   Max. 15   Max.
Availability of EMUs (%)1I        56         60         70         80        80
Utilization of EMUs (%)21         97         98         98         98        98
Staff (# of employees)        11,298      9,300      9,300      9,300    9,300       9,
1/ Ratio between available and existing fleet. An EMU is a standard trainset used in peak hour operation.
2/ Ratio between fleet in operation plus reserves and fleet available.
Source: CBTU, July 1991
(c) Financial Performance Targets: would form the basis for the monitoring of the financial
performance of the project. CBTU's financial performance and that of CBTU-RJ, would
gradually improve with the project as a result of the proposed physical and operating
improvements, tariff adjustments and increased passenger traffic. Farebox revenues



- 22 -
are projected to increase by 481 % in CBTU-RJ from 1990 to 1996. During the five-
year project implementation period, the working ratios (the ratio of working costs
divided by farebox revenues plus other operating revenues) of CBTU-RJ are projected
to decline from 10.6 in 1990 to 2.12 in 1997. Evan though traffic is expected to
increase by 53% in CBTU-RJ, operating subsidy payments will gradually decrease
through efficiency improvements. Operating subsidy reductions per paying passenger
should decline from US$0.30 to US$0.03 in CBTU-RJ. Since salaries and wages
constitute more than 50% of total working costs, additional improvements should
occur from a successful implementation of manpower studies financed under the
Project. The World Bank loan will be a Federal obligation and will not impact CBTU-RJ.
CBTU-RJ will only be responsible for debts contracted after the operational transfer.
Financial performance targets shown below (Table 3.4) were agreed at loan negotiations.
Notice that despite the improvements li the overall 1991 CBTU working ratio, the CBTU-RJ's
working ratio is still 9.61.  Preliminary surveys carried out by CBTU indicate that a
rehabilitated CBTU-RJ will generate the demand required to achieve the proposed financial
targets. The project calls for several changes in the maintenance organization and in the
materials management area. Those changes are expected to cut costs and contribute to the
achievement of the proposed working ratio targets. Pro-forma income statement-,, balance
sheets and sources and applications of funds for CBTU-RJ after the rehabilitation are shown
in Annex 5B.
Table 3.4: Financial Performance Targets
(Base Year  1991 I
_______________________________________________________________________   _____________________  ~  ::::::;;;::::::i:~~U*   gm
1. Working Ratio                       9.61    6.57      4.59     3.04    2.13    2.12
2. Salaries and Wages as % of           66       65       65       62       60       63
working costs
3. Average train fare (US$)            0.12     0.16     0.17     0.20     0.26    0.26
4. Paying Passengers per day           504      540      705      900    1,049   1,104
('000)                          __
Source: CBTU, July 1991
(d) Specific Agreements: it was also agreed at negotiations that,
li) that CBTU up to December 31, 1993, will take all necessary actions to: (i) carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule
to the CBTU Project Agreement; and (ii) achieve agreed basic physical, operational and
financial targets (set forth in a Side Letter);
(ii) that not later than November 30, 1993, CBTU shall prepare in consultation with the
Borrower and the State and put into effect a detailed plan of action (including dates
and intermediate targets), satisfactory to the Bank, to reach a working ratio for CBTU's
operations in the State (and after the Operational Transfer for the RJ Entity) not higher
than 2.15 by December 31, 1996. Such a plan (hereinafter the Financial Plan) shall
include a specific program of tariff increases and a set of operational measures required
for that purpose; and that the Financial Plan will be reviewed every six months.
(iii) that efficiency-monitoring indicators (set forth in a Side Letter) that minimize the need
for tariff increases, will be adopted and will automatically trigger an internal
management review of operating income and expenditures, and operating performance
targets to maintain efficiency;



- 23 -
J. Soecial Review and Mid-Term Proiect Review
3.23 Annual in-depth reviews will take place to ensure steady and consistent progress in
implementation of the project. It was agreed during negotitions that a Special Review
(tentatively planned for September 1994) and a Mid-term Project Review (June 1995) will
take place to review preagreed institutional, operational and financial performance indicators,
and compliance with covenants (including tariffs, subsidies, progress on studies, etc) of the
Loan and Project Agreements, to assess project performance and progress on decentralization
and as necessary agree on remedial actions. Particular importance will be given, during the
Special Review and the Mid-term Review, to the agreed working ratios and the status of the
studies and action plans, and the State's performance following the Operational Transfer.
K. Proiect Economic Evaluation Summary
3.24 The economic evaluation of the project was done for CBTU-RJ system as a whole and
for main corridors separately. The detailed corridor evaluation was undertaken to determine
whether any of the corridors should be dropped from the project. In addition to the above
evaluation, an incremental analysis to assess the NPV and ERR for electrification of 4.5km
of track in CBTU-RJ was also undertaken. The "overall' and "by corridor" ERR's for the base
case are shown in Table 3.5. The evaluation is conservative and the results show that the
CBTU-RJ rehabilitation project and the industrial corridor investments are economically
justified.
Table 3.5: Economic Evaluation'
=**M                                                       1 M
Rio de Janeiro - Overall System                    43               265.8               3
a - D.Pedro Il/Deodorob
b - D.Pedro Il/Sta Cruz                          47               106.6               3
c - D.Pedro Il/Japeri                            53                91.4
d - Linha Auxiliar                               36                38.4               4
e - Leopoldina0                           36.5(36.3)          39.9(36.6)             2.^
a/   Useful life: 20 years; discount rate; 11 %/year;
bl   Included in the D.Pedro Il/Sts. Cruz Corridor;
c/   Values in parenthesis refer to case without electrification of Gramacho-Saracuruna segment:
d/   Negligible differential in 8/C ratio with and without electrification.
3.25 Substantial quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits are expected from the provision
of higher capacity and safer operation by CBTU, namely, operating cost savings, time savings
for the users, reduction of road congestion, fewer accidents and fatalities, and employment
generation through spatial integration of markets. There will also be a contribution to the
improvement of air quality and reduction of noise pollution, since a substantial number of
riders are expected to switch from diesel operated buses to the electrified railways which are
cleaner and less noisy. Finally, some poverty alleviation will also result from improved
accessibility to employment. The benefits quantified in the economic evaluation were: (a)
direct benefits such as the reduction of trip cost and the value of time savings, reduction of
road maintenance costs due to fewer buses, reduction of bus operating costs associated with
improved traffic flow and control of buses; (b) indirect benefits such as the reduction of
congestion due to fewer buses, reduction of road accidents, and the reduction of
environmental pollution. The indirect benefits were not included in the base cases evaluated.
They were only used for sensitivity analysis purposes. The economic costs quantified in the
analysis included capital investment costs for system rehabiliatation and improvement and
the costs of operation and maintenace with and without the project.



- 24 -
3.26 The ERR for the base case of CBTU-RJ was 43%. The sensitivity analysis on traffic
forecasts, increased investment costs, deferral of benefits to the fourth year, etc., produced
acceptable results which ranged from 24% (case in which benefits are deferred to the fourth
year and investment costs are 10% higher) to 62% (case in which the benefits from
externalities are added). A more detailed description of the economic evaluation is given in
Annex 5A.
IV. DECENTRALIZATION, INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL POLICY REFORMS
4.1  The transfer of CBTU-RJ subdivision from the GOB to the State of Rio de Janeiro has
been agreed, in principle through the execution of the Protocolo of April 1992.
A. Decentralization
4.2 Transitional Phase to Decentralization: As the successful transfer for decentralization
is subject to detailed negotiations, involving political financial and technical considerations,
the detailed steps and transition to decentralization are viewed as a a continuing process
requiring the full and transparent participation of all levels of Government. In order to
underpin this process, joint and parallel strategic studies, administrative and legal actions,
organizational changes and key political decisions would have to be undertaken in a logical
and sequential manner, and synchronized with the timetable for processing and executing the
proposed Bank Loan to permit the complete transfer of the system to the State (RJ) not later
than the target date of December 31, 1994 (see Charts 1-2).
(a) General Coordination and Completion of Strategic Studies: immediately following the
signature of the Protocolo, a General Coordination Committee (CG) to manage and
guide the decentralization process was set up. The CG incorporates a number of task
forces which are already working. The CG, with representatives from the CBTU, RJ
and MRJ reports to the Conselho Diretor through the Representantes Executivos (see
Chart 2). The task forces will work on the strategic studies and Actions Plans (para.
3.4(i)) outlined in the Protocolo. Terms of reference and an agreed work program,
prepared by CBTU in collaboration with RJ/MRJ respectively, for the task forces on
decentralization (as specified in Clause II, para 6. of the Protocolo) was set up in July
1992.  The output of these studies will determine the additional contractual
responsibilities of all signatories to the Protocolo (in addition to the provisions under the
Loan and Project Agreement). These will be formalized through the execution of
Supplementary Agreements (Termos Additivos) to the Protocolo.
(b) Transfer to Public Corporation: in accordance with the Federal Govemment's policy
for modernization of the econorrmy, and RJ's willingness to improve the efficiency of
all its urban transport systems, the CBTU-RJ will be transferred to a Public Corporation
(Sociedade Anonima de Economia Mista). Assurances were received at Negotiations
that, not later than November 30, 1993, RJ would set up such a Public Corporation (RJ
Entity), under an independent Board with management autonomy, and thereafter, not
later than December 31, 1994, the CBTU-RJ system would be fully transferred to the
RJ Entity. The articles of Incorporation would include, among other things, that {i) the
RJ Entity will be managed by a professionally trained Chief Executive Officer (CEO);
and (ii) the management will adhere to specific operating financial and performance
targets set forth in annual contra^t plans; abide by agreed personnel and administrative
policies; and follow sound commercial practices. Draft Articles of incorporation for the
RJ Entity will be reviewed by the Bank.
4.3 Timetable and Phasing for Decentralization. The project has been prepared to take into
account the Federal Government's objective to complete the legal and institutional transfer



- 25 -
of the CBTU-RJ to the State by the target date of December 31, 1994, although rehabilitation
will continue until 1997. However, since complete decentralization of 3ssets requires
legislative amendments for which approval dates cannot be set with certainty, it was agreed
at negotiations:
a) to introduce an intermediate step herein called "Operational Transfer" which would
permit the transfer to be initiated as planned starting January 1, 1994, and be
comMeted not later than December 31, 1994, or the date on which disbursements
have reached the equivalent of 60% of the Loan Amount, whichever is earlier and that
the "Ownership Transfer" of the CBTU-RJ system will take place as a second stage
(pending approval of legislation). Both terms are defined in the legal documents as
follows:
i)    " Operational Transfer" means the effective transfer to the RJ Entity of all
management and operational responsibility and accountability for the operation
and administration of the CBTU-RJ System.
ii)  "Ownership Transfer" means the transfer of ownership of the CBTU-RJ System
to the RJ Entity including the enactment and execution of all legal, contractual
and administrative acts and documents required under the legislation of the
Borrower and the State for these purposes.
b) to include a specific dated covenant in the Loan Agreement concerning the submission
to the Federal Congress of an amendment to an existing Law or a new Bill of Law that
would permit ownership transfer to take place.
c) to include in the terms of the operational transfer a validi.y period of 50 years which
shall be terminated, after appropriate legal authorizations are given and put into effect,
by the effective transfer of CBTU-RJ System to the RJ Entity. Furthermore the
operational transfer would provide the RJ Entity with all the rights and obligations
required for the administration of the system, with the terms and conditions of the
Operational Transfer set out in a contract to be signed between CBTU and the RJ
Entity.
d) to make a Supplementary Agreement to the Protocolo a condition of effectiveness.
4.4  Contractual Arrangements:  In order to ensure a smooth transition to full
decentralization, (the formal legal transfer and start of operations by the RJ Entity (see para.
4.2 (b)), and to support its subsequent consolidation, the following legal arrangements will
apply: (See Chart 2).
With the Bank:
a)  Bank and GOB   (Borrower)            Loan Agreement
b)  Bank and CBTU  (Executing Agency)    Project Agreement
c)  Bank and RJ    (Operating Corporation) Project Agreement
Between Govemments and Between Operating Entities:
a) GOB and RJ            (Protocolo and Termos Additivos)
b) CBTU and RJ Entity   (Operational Transfer Contract)



- 26 -
B. Modal Intearation
4.5  Bank support for this project was based on the premise that Institutionalizing a policy
of multimodal integration is a "sine qua non" for this project with the objective of: la)
improving multi-year investment planning and physical integration of different services,
introducing integrated tariff and operational policies, and strengthening the regulatory
framework for managing public transport; (b) strengthening the institutional framework and
management of each mode in a parallel and consistent manner to minimize cross-
inefficiencies; and (c) defining a clear role and responsibility for the private sector in the
provision of transport services and related infrastructure in the MRs.
4.6 The project will finance selected studies, which will recommend immediate actions to
be implemented by the state and municipalities of the MR, and form the basis to facilitate
further reforms in the sector, as follows: (a) on updating of the existing Transportation Master
Plan prepared for the Municipality of RJ (MRJ) and the RJ Metropolitan Region (RJMR) and
a Route Rationalization Study for the RJMR; (b) a Management Study focussing on a policy
and institutional development action plan for the state-owned bus company (CTC); (c) an
Operations and Management Study of the Rio METRO to define alternative options for its
future operations, including its integration with the decentralized CBTU-RJ; (d) an Operations
and Management Study of CONERJ to define future options to enhance its services and to
improve efficiency; (e) a study to review the Regulatory Framework within which
"concessions" and "permissions" are granted in MRJ and RJMR, in order to facilitate the
implementation of recommendations of the Route Rationalization Study, and (f) a multi-modal
Tariff integration Study.
4.7   A Metropolitan Council for Urban Transport for establishing institutional arrangements
to plan, coordinate, and set priorities for integrated urban transport in the RJMR was created
by RJMR representatives on April 1991 and regulations setting out its organization were
established by Decree No. 34.184 dated November 18, 1991. This was an encouraging first
step towards enhancement of urban transport coordination in the RJMR, one of the main
objectives of the project. At negotiations assurances were received (a) that CBTU and RJ
will undertake to ensure completion of selected studies in accordance with the agreed
timetable, so that an Action Plan based on the study recommendations could be implemented
expeditiously; and b) that, not later than 12 months from the date of signing of the Loan
Agreement, the State of Rio de Janeiro and the MRJ will prepare a Metropolitan Regional
Transportation Plan (including a multi-year investment program, with supporting financial,
technical and institutional arrangements and a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for multi-
model integration.
C. Financial Policy
4.8 Poverty, Affordability and Subsidies: The growing crisis in urban transportation in
Brazil, especially in the major MRs requires a closer look at alternatives for financing services
in a more predictable and sustainable way while, at the same time, targeting subsidies more
directly to the low-income ridership. The various initiatives already underway within CBTU
to improve efficiency will continue (see paras. 2.8-2.9) under the project. These include tariff
adjustments, improvements in quality of service, capacity, and trip reliability, as well as
efforts focused on reduced operating costs.
4.9 The ridership of the CBTU is predominantly very low income - about 75% in RJ earn
less than 3 minimum wages and about 88% earn less than 5 minimum salaries (only the very
desperate will travel under the appalling conditions today - see photos at end of SAR). The
most recent data on household expenditures and income (IBGE, Family Budget Survey,



- 27 -
1987/88) shows that basic expendituresW (except urban transportation), for families
declaring Income equal less than two minimum wages (MW), exceed average family income.
If urban transportation (UT) expenses are added to basic expenditures, almost all household
income is used up, even for those earning between 2 and 5 MWs (Annex 4A).
4.10 Given the scarcity of reliable aggregate data on household expenditures required to
estimate the UT expenditure mode by a low income household as a percentage of household
income, it was necessary to perform a simulation exercise based on current UT fares and MW
(see Annex 4A). This simulation shows that UT expenses (based on a home to work ride
which includes the use of bus plus rail), in 1991, accounted for at least 23% of total
household income. UT expenses plus basic expenses as a share of household income, went
up between 1987/88 and 1991. For households earning up to 2 MW, the figures for RJ are
112% (1987/88) and 126% (1991)4/. The real growth in bus fares in the period accounted
for most of the increase.
4.11 The same exercise was done to evaluate the impact on low-income families' budget
of the proposed rail rates after CBTU decentralization in RJMR. By the time the project is
completed (1997) and even assuming a sizeable minimum wage increase (MW assumed at
US$100 in 1991 constant dollars), the costs of urban transportation for poor households in
terms of the consumption of basic goods and services is going to rise. It is estimated that
in 1995 UT costs (bus-rail combined trips) will correspond to about 33% of household income
in RJ (23% in 1991) for households with incomes up to 2 MW. It is therefore clear that
while the program envisages a substantial fare increase (pegged to the urban bus fares in
each capital city) the average income level of CBTU's ridership presents severe affordability
constraints for full cost recovery, especially for rail-based travel.
4.12 To make UT affordable to the poor it is necessary to strengthen and expand the
eligibility for the "vale-transporte" program to low income residents which are not formally
employed, to substantially promote integrated (bus-rail, subway-rail) fares, which could be
lower than the combined fare assumed in Annex 4A, and to increase the overall level of
service provided to the users. This will imply lower travel times due to higher frequencies and
operating speeds, bringing down, therefore, the overall transport cost to the user and
alleviating the burden that high urban transportation costs impose on poor households.
4.13 In order to maintain the future financial health of the RJ Entity after decentralization,
and to ensure adequate and timely maintenance and safety of the system, it will be necessary
to ensure a reliable and predictable source of financing including transfers from the State
government to provide for rehabilitation and maintenance of fixed infrastructure (as in the
case of maintenance of roads used by bus transit systems) and for any direct fare subsidies
to low-income riders and vulnerable group (children, students, senior citizens and so on)
mandated by the State.
4.14 Impact of Decentralization on Local Finances. The financial situation of the State of
Rio de Janeiro has been uneven in recent years. Successive macroeconomic stabilization
plans, high inflation rates, and changes in the legislation concerning tax collection and
indebtedness have led to an erratic pattern of revenues and expenditures (Annex 4B). Until
1988, the underlying trend was one of deteriorating financial performance and increasing
recourse to borrowing (recurrent revenues were insufficient to finance current expenditures
3/ Food, housing, clothing, health care and education.
4/ Figures higher than 100% are both due to understatement of monetary earnings and to the relatively
higher share of non-monetary earnings in those households.



- 28 -
and capital expenditures were entirely financed by borrowing). In 1989 an Improvement was
registered, mostly as a consequence of the implementation of the new constitutional
provisions which inter-alia, enlarged the tax basis and the revenue share of sub-national
governments. Since 1990, the situation has deteriorated again, as local tax revenues have
been negatively affected by the serious economic recession (Brazil's GDP fell 4.5% In real
terms in 1990).
4.15 The evaluation of the capacity of RJ State to assume the financial responsibilities of
the decentralized CBTU-RJ took into account past and future financial performance and the
projected needs for government financing to cover the difference between working expenses
and passenger generated revenues (normalization costs). The outlook Is largely positive.
After a period of financial difficulties (1987-91), the state of RJ has benefitted from three
positive factors: {i) a new administration which was able to undergo a strict program of
financial adjustment (ii) the effects of the 1988 constitution which increased the share of the
states in tax revenues; and (iii) the rescheduling of the State debt with the central
government which has reduced substantially the debt service over the next 5 years.
4.16 These circumstances justify the confidence that the authorities have shown in terms
of being able to assume, comfortably the financial responsibilities associated with the project.
In fact, the normalization costs are projected to represent no more than 3% of the state
recurrent revenues in the next 10 years. Under unfavorable circumstances - revenues
stagnating in real terms -- normalization costs could reach at the most 4% of the state
revenues.
4.17 Review of Financing Mechanisms. During appraisal, it was agreed that efforts should
be focused on seeking a solution that (a) would generate sufficient resources to maintain a
stable and predictable funding for urban transport investments; (b) would establish
mechanisms to generate adequate operating cross-subsidies from within the envelope of
transport related taxes, user charges, etc., to provide for normalization (operating deficits)
transfers; and (c) CBTU, in collaboration with the RJ and MRJ, would contract with a credible
institution (such as IPEA) to carry out a Tariff and Financial Policy study, conduct discussions
at the state and local levels, and help in drafting the appropriate legislation to implement such
policy reforms.
4.18 Agreement was reached at negotiations that a) the GOB during the project
disbursement period, will meet the project-related cost of capital investments plus debt
service (interest and amortization) of the CBTU-RJ and the Loan; b) until the Operational
Transfer of CBTU-RJ has been effected, the GOB will cover the difference between the
working costs and operating revenues of the CBTU-RJ; c) after the Operational Transfer to
the completion of the Project, RJ will cover the difference between the working costs and
operating revenues of the CBTU-RJ; d) not later than June 30 and December 31 of each
year, starting on June 30, 1994, CBTU will review with the Borrower, the Bank and the
State, and if necessary revise, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, such Financial Plan; e)
the CBTU, RJ and MRJ will ensure completion of a tariff and financial policy study (under
terms of reference approved by the Bank and in accordance with a work program agreed with
the Bank), before the Special Project Review so that an Action Plan on the agreed
recommendations and draft legislation can be prepared, to implement tariff and financial
policy reforms.



- 29 -
V. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
5.1  Since the main objective of the proposed project Is to increase the capacity offered by
the rail suburban system, it is expected that a substantial percentage of the passengers now
carried by bus will return to their original mode of transportation, that is, rail. This is
especially true for passengers who live within walking distance from the stations, who
switched to bus because, in the last five years, the capacity and safety offered by the trains
decreased considerably. However, this is not so obvious for passengers who do not live
within walking distance. Nevertheless, it is estimated that by project completion about
eighteen hundred (1,840) less buses/day will be required on the streets of the Rio de Janeiro
metropolitan area, because over 500,000 passengers/day are conservatively expected to
switch back to rail. The main positive environmental impacts expected stem from this
reduction in bus services, given their present negative impact on the air quality, noise levels,
traffic congestion, and road accidents. Othe. positive impacts, include the beneficial effect
of the rehabilitation of the rail system on passenger safety at the stations, on the land use
around the right of way, and the decrease in fatal accidents resulting from lack of fencing of
the right-of-way.
5.2 The impact on air quality is due to a reduced of emissions from buses which will be
removed from circulation, or which will have their route-km. shortened because, they will be
operating feeder services for the rail system rather than duplicating the rail service. The
impact on noise levels is also due to the reduction of buses; older vehicles predominantly
owned and operated by the public sector in Rio de Janerio are noisy and when bunched
together, cause very high decibel levels, which hardly allow people to chat at normal voice
levels on the street. The impact on traffic congestion is mainly due to shorter waiting time
for commuters using their automobiles and buses and also due to the savings in fuel
consumption since vehicles consume more fuel when they are idling. The effect on road
safety will be in terms of fewer road accidents involving buses. In addition, the fencing of
the right-of-way is. expected to decrease the number of fatal accidents involving pedestrians
crossing the tracks. Even if the benefits estimated were cut in half because the bus
operators would, in some cases, continue to run the buses at lower load factors, the project
would contribute positively to the environment. An order of magnitude quantification of the
environmental impacts is presented in Annex 5C. Benefits which were not quantified relate
to the improved living environment which will result from safer and cleaner stations,
crossovers from the sidewalks to the stations, space for queuing up at the wickets, ramps
for the handicapped and, improved modal integration with taxis, buses and private
automobiles, and easier access to non-motorized traffic (bicycles, pedestrians). Other non-
quantified benefits relate to the land use impacts of a revamped rail system which will attract
housing to the surrounding areas. Furthermore, real estate development in the air space
above the stations and on land owned by CBTU is also expected. Shorter trip times and
faster home-to-work trips will also have a positive effect on the rail users' welfare.
5.3 The proposed physical rehabilitation of the system is not expected to have negative
impacts -- most materials used will not affect the environment, the contractors will be
responsible for proper disposal of waste materials, the earthworks are mainly in CBTU's
existing right-of-way and no land expropriation is needed. Wooden ties will only be procured
from contractors who are allowed by their national agencies to sell them and, wherever
feasible, concrete ties will be used. The visual impact of the stations will be enhanced with
appropriate architectural designs which will blend with the environment. In short, the
environmental impact of the project is expected to be positive. Assurances were received
that the project will be executed, and the system subsequently operated in accordance with
good environmental practices.



- 30 -
VI. PROJECT RISKS, AGREEMENTS, AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project Risks
6.1  The main risks are political: possible delays in achieving consensus among the three
levels of government to implement the Protocolo. This could also delay the transfer of
METRO to MRJ in which case RJ would not be able to meet the operating costs of both the
CBTU-RJ and METRO. Other risks Include government reluctance to raise tariffs to allow
CBTU-RJ to reach the targeted working ratios; possible delays in the procuremerit process,
and the adequacy and timely availability of counterpart funds.  Inter-governmental
negotiations have gone well so far. The GOB and RJ are actively preparing for the
Operational Transfer of CBTU-RJ on January 1, 1994. In parallel RJ and MRJ are also Ofine-
tuning" the phasing of different operations and terms of transfer of METRO. As a condition
of effectiveness a supplementarv agreement to the Protocolo is required to help facilitate the
transfers. GOB also agreed at negotiations to cover the differences between working costs
and revenues until the Operational Transfer is effected. Although CBTU has been regularly
adjusting its tariffs, the Government may be tempted to freeze tariffs for long periods of time,
thereby eroding revenues. The contract plans will contain provisions to protect CBTU-RJ from
such imposed freezes. The delays in the procurement process have been minimized as the
CBTU has worked with the Bank to produce standardized bidding documents for the project.
The timely availability of counterpart funds has been guaranteed under legislation that
prioritizes the use of annual budgetary provisions for parastatal agencies to meet international
and bilateral loan counterpart commitments. Periodic implementation reviews, including a
mid-term review will monitor compliance with the counterpart funding commitments.
Agreements Reached
6.2  The followina aareements were reached durinc Neqotiations:
The following Conditions, which were discussed and confirmed during Negotiations,
have been incorporated in the Loan Agreement and where applicable, in the respective Project
Agreements. These agreements will also be reflected in a Supplementary Agreement to the
Protocolo, to be executed as a Condition of Effectiveness.
A. Proiect Manaaement:
a) that the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be structured and adequately staffed and
otherwise supported in the implementation of its responsibility under the project (para
3.9 and 3.11);
b) that Procurement will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines, including li)
the use of standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and works, under
LCB and ICB procedures; (ii) use of standard guidelines for the selection of consultants;
and (iii) the agreed procurement limits (para 3.17);
c) that Project Accounts, Special Accounts in Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN) and in a
Commercial Bank will be opened and maintained (para 3.20);
d) that Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) (i) will be audited
according to procedures, and by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, and (ii)
audits will be submitted within four months of year-end (para 3.21);



- 31 -
e) that (i) within ninety days of loan signing a Project Management Information System
IPMIS) satisfactory to the Bank shall be installed; (ii) preagreed institutional, physical,
operational and financial performance targets shall be Included In quarterly and annual
reports to the Bank; and (iii) an independent project monitoring consultant, reporting
to the President of CBTU and the State (through the RJ Entity), shall be appointed to
maintain a continuing performance audit of the project and recommend apportionment
of responsibility and recommend corrective actions where required (para 3.11);
f) that the project shall be executed, and the system subsequently operated in
accordance with good environmental praccices (set forth in a Side Letter to the Loan
Agreement) (para 5.3);
B. Decentralization and Or erational Efficiency for the CBTU-RJ:
a) that the Borrower and the State shall have completed the Operational Transfer by
December 31, 1994, or the date on which disbursements have reached the equivalent
of 60% of the Loan Amount, whichever is earlier (para 4.3);
b) that CBTU shall enter into an agreement with the State Entity (the Contract)
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to effect the Operational Transfer (para 4.3
(a));
c) that not later than December 31, 1993, the Executive Branch of the Borrower shall
submit to the Borrower's Congress a bill of law, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, authorizing the Borrower to take all action required to effect the Ownership
Transfer (para 4.3 (b));
d) that not later than November 30, 1993, RJ shalt establish a juridically independent
public corporation (the RJ Entity) with sufficient powers and authority to accept the
Operational and Ownership Transfers and to own and operate all assets included
therein. That RJ not later than December 15 each year after the Operational Transfer
and until December 15, 1996, shall execute agreements with the RJ Entity,
satisfactory to the Bank, (Contract Plans) including specific operating, financial and
performance targets for the following fiscal year and the financial contributions and
other actions required from the State to enable the RJ Entity to attain such targets
(para 4.2 (b));
e) that CBTU up to December 31, 1993, and thereafter RJ, will take all necessary actions
to: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in the Schedule to the CBTU Project Agreement; and (ii) achieve agreed basic physical,
operational and financial targets (set forth in a Side Letter) (para 3.22 (d));
f) that not later than November 30, 1993, CBTU shall prepare in consultation with the
Borrower and the State and put into effect a detailed 'Financial Plan" of action
(including dates and intermediate targets), satisfactory to the Bank, to reach a working
ratio for CBTU's operations in the State (and after the Operational Transfer for the RJ
Entity) not higher than 2.15 by December 31, 1996. Such a plan (hereinafter the
Financial Plan) shall include a specific program of tariff increases and a set of
operational measures required for that purpose; and that the Financial Plan will be
reviewed every six months (para 3.22 (d));
g) that efficiency-monitoring indicators (set forth in a Side Letter) that minimize the need
for tariff increases, will be adopted and will automatically trigger an internal
management review of operating income and expenditures, and operating performance
targets to maintain efficiency (para 3.22 (d));



- 32 -
C. Financial Policy and Modal Inteagration:
a) that the GOB during the project disbursement period, will finance the project-related
capital investments plus debt service (interest and amortization) of the CBTU-RJ and
the Loan (para 4.18 (a));
b) that until the Operational Transfer of the CBTU-RJ has been effected, the GOB shall
cover the difference between the working costs and operating revenues of the CBTU-
RJ (para 4.18 (bM);
c) that after the Operational Transfer to the completion of the Project, RJ shall cover the
difference between the working costs and operating revenues of the CBTU-RJ (para
4.18 (c));
d) that the CBTU, RJ and the MRJ shall undertake to ensure completion of selected
studies, including a tariff and financial policy study (all under terms of reference
approved by the Bank) in accordance with a program already agreed with the Bank, so
that an Action Plan on the agreed recommendations can be prepared, and implemented
(para 4.18 (a));
D. Soecial Review and Mid-Term Review:
a) A Special Review (tentatively planned for September 1994) and a Mid-term Project
Review (June 1995) will take place to review preagreed institutional, operational, and
financial performance indicators, and compliance with covenants (including tariffs,
subsidies, progress on studies, etc) of the Loan and Project Agreements, to assess
project performance and progress on decentralization, and as necessary agree on
remedial actions. Particul r import. nce will be given, during the Special Review and
Mid-term Review, to the agreed working ratios and the status of the studies and action
plans, and the State's performance following the Operational Transfer (para 3.23).
6.3  The following are Conditions for Loan Effectiveness:
a) The execution of a Supplementary Agreement to the Protocolo, incorporating selected
provisions of the Loan and Project Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.2 (a));
b) The establishment of the PIU and its adequate staffing by CBTU, with a team of
specialists satisfactory to the Bank has been satisfactorily completed (para. 3.9 and
3.1 1);
c) The registration of the Loan Agreement by the Central Bank (para 3.20).
6.4  Retroactive financing in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$10 million may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures made after August 1, 1992 but before
the signing of the Loan Agreement.
Recommendation:
6.5 With the above Agreements and Conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$128.5 million equivalent, to be paid over a period of 15 years, including
five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate and fees.



- 33 -
DETAILED COST TABLES, DISBURSEMENT TABLES, AND CHARTS
1.   Table Tl - Project Components With Detailed Cost Estimates
2.   Table T2 - Allocation of Loa., Proceeds
3.   Table T3 - Schedule of Estimated Disbursments
4.   Institutional Arrangements
6.   Flow of Funds/Legal Arrangements
6.   Load Diagram - Morning Peak Hour



RIO MEIROPCLIffM IRANSPVRT DECENTRALIZADON PROJECT
Tibb TO: PiOe Campanmi WNh Deb"e Coot EWnd.s
US$ Million
I      QU A NT ITY                         jUNIT  j         BASE  COST                                TOTAL                    Gnt  atrgit)         PiysI For.   rs
ITEM                 j               y                                 jCOST I          r.MMNLLCING CONTINGEWES    Fmorg  I ee                                           Duti   Cant. EK.  . h  i
~~q  unft   Yr.                                           Yr. I ~~~~~~~L Yr.1  21 Y.3IYrY41.r.I TTAL31 Yr. 41 Yr. SIIO         E=h.i  E,L .TxsTae   %
1. PERMANENT WAY                                                                                 8,2 12.1  162 15.7  7.3    6.o9.116   16.0 I    19.2  9.3  70.0    30.4           39.6   10.1
-Draina                              Ion      0      0      65 ___         I _    12  154125   0.0  0.0l 0.8  0.9  0.1    1.8  0.0  0.01 1.11 1.2  0.1   2.4            0.8       1.8    0.3   1 S           1
Bddges                              u        0      0-    1        2      5  __  8   45,875   0.0  0.0  0.01 0.1  0.2    0.4  0.0  0.0  0.01 0.1  0.3   0.5             0.2      0.3    0.1   1s 5    __2
Qilveets                            m        0      0       4     96    78    175   I5.309  0.'  0.0  0.11 1.5  1.2    2.8  0.0  0.0  0.11 2.0, 1.8   3.7               1.3      2.4    0.4   1S 5          12_
Pod. Overpases                      u        0      0       3      0      0       3   55.143   0.0  0.0  0.2  0.0  0.0    0.2  0.0  0.0  0.21 0.010.0   0.2            0.1       0.1    0.0  15   is        12
Retainlngwails                      Ml       0      0 1,844   1,496       0   3,.140      80   0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0    0.2  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.3   0.2           0.1       0.2    0.0   1S 5          12_
Fwres                               rn       0      0    387    918   918   2.2 --- 589   0.0  0.0  0.2  0.5  0.5    1.3  0.0  0.0  0.31 0.71 0.7   1.7                0.8       1.1    0.2   15    5       1
Clea. dE ktert.                     rn     233   1871       0      0l    0    400    1,5541  0.4  0.3  0.0  0.01 0.0    0.81 0.4, 0.3  0.01 0.01 0.01  0.7             0.3       0.5    0.1   15 35         1
rtoed-bad                           n3       0      0 400 2.0             01.00           1 0.   .0 0.1  0.21 0.0    0.3  0.01 0.0, 0.11 0.21 0.01  0.3_    0.1 lT               0.2,   0.0-  15T-7         12_
Superstucture                                         _______7.7  11.8  4.  12.1  5.21   51.0  8.5  13.01 18.8  14.8  8.51 59.0    27.01                                         32.0    8.8
materiuls                                                                                      1.7  8.2 _8.2  8.7  3.4   28.3  1.8  8.9  9.5  10.5  4.2  32.9    18.2           18.7    5.5
limbe sleoes                       u        0 75,480  58,859  58,805     0 158,50 _    45  0.0  3.4 _2.8  2.8  0.0    8.5  0.0  3.8  3.0  3.1  at)   9.8              3.4       8.4    1.7    5   35       17
C-cancse sleepers                  u        0      0  11,268  11,257 11.267  33.aD0     177  0.0  0.0 _2.0  2.0  2.0    8.0  0.0  0.0  2.3  2.41 2.5   7.2            2.5       4.7    1.2    5   35       17
RaIIrR-57                         tort    823  1.096   1.096   1.918   548   5,481     804   0.7  0.9  0.9  1,5  0.4 _  4.4  0.7  1.0  1.0  1.8  0.5   5.1            3.6       1.5    0.9    5   70       17
Fastenigs                          set  43.180 88381 129,542 129.542 43.181 431,806      is 1   0.8  1.3  1.9  1.9  0.8    8.4  0.7  1.4  2.2  2.3  0.8   7.4         5.2       2.2    1.3    51  70       17
Bodas                              m    18,315 18,315  22.a04  22,a04  9.181  91.579    21. 0.4  0.4  0.5. 0.5, 0.2    2.0  0.4  0.4  0.8  0.5  0.2   2.3             0.-8      1.5    0.3    51  35       12
Twrtwts                            u        0      S.    10.    10-    5        30.17.57910.010.10.2 0.2 0. 1              0.5  0.0  0. 1  0.2  0.2  0.1.  0.8        0.4       0.21   0.11   5  701    17
Beans for trnouts      ost       0 12.5741 1.880                  4-O7 .0  0.2  0.1  0.0  0.01   0.31 0.0  0.2F 0.2  -0.0  0.0   0.4                       01        0.21   0.1    SI  35 17
Wuldh                              ast      0]    o             A         l      o         I     I0 0    0  0  0.0-0o -0.0                      ______0.   0.01  O.     .0___           0.01   S   701    17-
bisu-f'tIdpIe                      S        01    01       81    01 21 301             4251 0.01 0.0  000   0   0           .100   0.01 0.0  0.0  0.11  0.21    0.1             0.0    0.0    51 701    17
Services                          L..                                                                     81   3.4   18[a   1't1ZalI4[  7.1 [4.1  2.2j 211 17.7                  14II.2  26~
Tracik  hbrddfie.Jl Io    481   88l    891    241    0 1   2271  55.872126 38   5.01  1.41 0.01                                1 2-7j, 4.21 S.7j 1.7100 14             5         9L.3 ..i35i1i             12IIi
Trark Rmswl                      jIan        0]    01      4       7      86     1813I12.1 0.01212.018                      5.0 0.0 0.011.4 241221  8.0                211       3      ,01'1    12
TraokComeimtuta                  JIcm        2 1    7       0C)    0      0       9l o  15864, . 1       0.0  0.01 0.0[        30311.2[   .0 0.01  0.0        1        0.,p1.                12,            2
Eq.alpnwit                                                                         I        1 3.21 0.51  0.01 0.01 0.01    3.71 3.61 0.61 0.01 0.01 0.01   4.21         3.11      1.~fl07:I
Reimb. ll0it equi.                  u      272l   481       0l     0l    0      3201   1,6381 0.410.1 0010.010.0    0.5  0.51 0.11 0.01 0.01 0.01  0.81                041       011    0.1   10l751    17
Rd7eb.hevY equIp.                Iu         371    81       0      01    0       431  73,3501 2.71 041 0.0  0.0  0.0    3.21 3.11 0.51 0.01 0.01 o.o1  36              271       091   060  101  75 17
1 swwvwm                I prn 1  ~541   911   1271    731   191   3841  2.730D  0.11 0.31 0.41 0.21 0.11    1.01 0.21 0.31 0.41 0.31 0.11  1.21               0.01      1.21   0.11  101   0       12
2. STATKM                                                               OLS~~~~~~~~~~~~0.  17.9 18.3  9.1  4S5 8.4  0.7 20.9 2P.I11    S, 9   61.0    21.0  40.0    7.3
Rduilftstka                         u        0 DI II       121     71    41    3311,258.1aD0  0.01 13.21 14.91 8.91 4.41  41.41 0.01 15.31 18.01 11.21 5 .7L 50.31    17.6    _32.71   8.01  101  35I    121
Caisbtx4clan                         u        0     3       2       0     0       41,538.000   0.0  3.   2.3  0.0  0.0    8.2  0.0  4.5  2.8  0.0  0.0   7.3            2.5       4.7    0.    10   35       12
FsrK=    ~ ~  ~    ~     Im   I    0  1,000   1,3auI       01    ci  Z.331    589  ao.  0.81 oaol o.0  0.01    14  0.o1  0.71  1.01  0.01  0.01   1.71         0.81      i.ij    0.2   101  351    I2
Prcloddesignu  1 271    8                          0       0     0      351  22.OD0  0.81 0.21  ol 0.0  00          .8 .7 0.21 0.01 0.01 0.0   0.91           03        0.61   0.1  10351    121
RmtW                     prn 1  ~251   84    11        931   58    3701   2,011   0.11 0.21 0.21 0.2  0.11   0.71 0.1  0.21 0.31 0.21 0.2    09              .0       0.91   0.1   10    0!    121
ID



RIO MEIOPOLTAM TRANSPORT DECENMRALIZATION PROJECT
T1b. Ti: Praoec Componmt Wlh Diud Cast EatInuim
US$ Million
T                                                                                                ENW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BFADV   OF C013S AA781
Q U A NT IT Y                               UNrT           BASE  COST                              TOTAL                    (mcl 0icthigmcls)     hs  For. Grossj
ITEM                j_______________ __                                COST                                           INCLLWING OONTINGEMCES    Fog            oa      uisCat Exdh T. Rate
Yr.21 Yr.31 Yr U41IY.    Y.21Y.31Y. 1Yr   ITTA                                            f.2 Y.31Y.                                           Yrnm               m T=m(6
L Sw.i                                                2                       To2Y  to9 ±0 MO OaO   &t1 13 23 ±i aOO MO  t0   3.4   2.6 OL
TElecaw,un c1 na0.31 0.10.61.  0.01 0.01   137   01  0418  .15  0.01 0.01  4.31    2.41                                                                                       19      06 _
TrusmlsZa                                                                F0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01   003  003  004  008  0.01 0.0   0.01    0.01                             00 _  002
Eq.ilmwitstA    0                                0 1      1     o       1680    0.20  0            1___5 0.0  1 0.0 1 0.0  0.01 0.04000 000.010.01   0.0112       0.01      00  _ 0021101701 71
bnstalIon                       0sn              0       0       0     0      0   4___D  0.010.01 0.010.01 0.01   0.01 0.01 0.01 0.010.01 0.01  0.01    0.01                0.0 I   0.01101351    12
SPgdlng                          I                                                                          otypltbe n  iod Jnero_TU-_yse
Trldcnu-ltrludflce                                                                          0. 0.0  .0  0.0  0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.01 0.0   0.01    0.01              0.0      0.0  _
EqIlMNWitsall                              0                                               0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.  -0.0 _    0.01           0.0 __0.0   1       0      1
Equtaatla                       funla      0     0             0T     0          ___       0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   _   .             .   _00 1         5      1
Audio System                                          0.9  1.5  1.3  0.0  0.0    3.7  1.0  1.8  1.5  0.0  0.0   4.3          2.4       1.9    0.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  .0  .0  .0  .0    o   7i    1
InstaIalan                       km      24     72     12 01           0    216o   0,1   0.2  0.5  0.8  0.0  0.0    1.5  0.2  0.6  1.0  0.0  0.0   18_    0.0               1.1    0.2  10   35       12       C)
CTsln.contr eif                                                                             0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0 _    0.0           0.0    00 -
Eqipmuit4                      staon      0      0              0l    0       0            ao__ 0.   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0 _0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0  10   70       17
Instalatn                       sttIn            0l     0l      0     0       0 ___         .   0.   0.0 _0.0  0.01   0.0  0.01 0.0 _ 0.0  0.0  0.01  0.0 _    0.0          0.0    0.0  10   35       12
Audio_______System                                1       20      0              0j 6         9 __      13  I0].io T 1   0. 10.0  0.0]  o.5  o.o0  o.o[  4.3(       o.o       oil    o.oJi[ o
E.ditItati                       EU       _21  2ol      03       0      0      31   1298 ~07  .4  1.4    0.0   0.0       2.  08  1.2  0.0  -0.0  0.0   32.         1.1       2.1    0.        0 3      12
CostruolMUa24    721 120                                         01 01    21  27,0Wl  2.2  2.2  o 3.o14   2.2   1451 025  256  40  5.5  2.8  17.7                  &2J      1.1.    021   10   35      12j
CEQ.lPanlets                    I....                0____                                   .1  1.4  0.0  0.0  0.0    24 12   1600    0.0  0.0  0.0   28           .0       0.8    0.5
L~~~orsIosy                                 __________~~~~~~~~~~~o     o  0 ___  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   00       .0       0.01   0.0 10 3
urhased                         0u    3                           00   o       5  4      I7.200   0.9 1.  001.00.0.0     2       0 10  0.0  0.0  0.0   2.          0.0       0.8 T  0.4  10   70I 1__
SprEtviItatIPM I.E..2                                    21  _______           381 1OQOIOO 0.   0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01   021  02 00 0 0.01             0.01  0.21    0.01       0.11   0.010   70 o        1
S mfatn                                     38     2     5              0     253    3.067   1.410.10.210.  0.2           0.801101 020.30.2                0. 0.0 0. .1       .9    0.1  10    0         2
5.CoUnst Gc  S1DCI(0                                                             2 ,20.0  12.3  2.4 28.49.1  472   14.5 18.4 32.21 4.4 11.4  2.8179.7    71.7                 1 1.5    11.835            1
Locoenotis                                                                                  1           .0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0    0 75         1
Wagnsu                                     32    48       0      0      0      80  427.20   0.8 1.2 0.0 0.0 0.0          2.001.91.4 0.0 0.0 0.0    2.3             1.7       0.0     0.3 1075           1 
ModernIlAtin                                I     0       0      0              11O    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0? .   0.0  .0  0.0  0.0   0.0                 0.0       0.0    0.0 ___
LEmUsr                             u        0     0       0      0      0      0__          00 .0 .0.0 0.0   0.0  0.0      0.0   0.        0 0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0       1     5      1     .
Purcesao                                   38____5_                     0    20      3.0   0.0  20.2  3.2  0.0. 0.0    5.4  0.0 .1.   0.0  0.0   0.                 4.a.              .6__o~
Locontotive                        u       0      4              0     0       90O00   0.0  22 320.0  0.0    5.4  0.0  2.5  3.0  0.0  0.0   0.4                    4.0       1.0    0.8  10   75       12   ~t
EaMUS                              u       0      0      0       0     0       0 ____ 0.0 0.0 0.0   0.0  0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0                 0.0       0.0    0.0  1075   12
SupervIsion    ~ ~ ~~~Ip 1 861  27512141   1671   581rI0    3,000  031 0.8  0.01 0.5  0.21   2.41 0.31 1.01 0.81 0.01  0.21  2.9                           0.0    2.910.31  0 01                121



BRAZIL
RN) MEIROPOUrrAN TRANSPOT DECENTIRALIZATION PROJECT
Table TI: Project CoWponerit WAh DeluDed Cost Estkmaes
Us$ Million
I                                               I U~~~~~~~~~~BEANDOWN OF COSTS
IQU A NT IT Y                              UI IT         BASE  COST                             TOTAL            4     onci. c4iall5)       P     For. Gross
ITEM                                                                 COST2   *                                    INCU5TOTL  NG  0011INEE     Foeg        w]IDe  Cant EcdhT.Rato
LAni I  f.1  Yr 21Yr.31   r. 1 Y. S TaAL   US$   Yr     21Y.   r.   r5  OA   Yr. I IYr.21 Yr.31 Yr.41 Yr. 5 TOI   EhwEc Twm1&exe
IL INSWITIONAL DEVELOPMENT
kcodiknmlDevdoPment        p-     82L     68  747       971__ 9 __      9271             0.7 _7.7  1.0  0.1  0.1 __9.5  0.71 9.01 1.2  0.1  0.11 11.11    3.4           7.7    1.3 __        __
-Tmk"                  PM       ~~~~0 89      71__  0       0     71 10.900  0.0  0.7  0.1  0.0  0.0 __0.8  0.1  .   0.1  0.0  0.01  0.91    0.3             0.81   0.1  10    01    121
hpwm*tuWlImIJift                 pm      19 __77       77      9     a    190  10,9D0  0.2  0.8  0.8  0.1  0.1._  1.   0.    .   0.9  -0.1  0.1   2.31    0.7          1.8    0.3  10    0      12
comsTUStdi                       pm       9   225      13 __0        0    247    _      0.1  2.3  0.1  0.0  0.0 __2.5   . i2 6   0.2  0.0  0.0   2.9         0.9      2.0    0.3 
Mb~wp~dev.,Ritioaft             pm       0 __ SI__            0 __0 __58  10.9000  0.0  0.5  0.1  0.0  0.0 __0.8  MO0.   0.1  0,0  0.0   0.7                0.2       0.7    0.1   1 0 __0     12
Costmctmd4TaIft                 pm~    0 _48          4 _    0      0     so 5    10,00  0.0  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0    as0.   0.0  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.8    0.2       0.4    0.1   1 0 _0      12
M.iagasmtddogto                 -rn      0 _44 _     4 _    0   _0 __48  110,900  0.0  0.4  0.0. 0.0  0.0 __0.5  0.0  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.6              0.2       0.4    0.1   1 0 _0      12
pfeseoatorpmaaftI               PML      3 __28 _     0 _    0      0 __31  10,9000  0.0  0.3  0.01 0.0  0.0    0.3  0.0  0.3  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.4          0.1 _     0.3    0.0  10 __0       12
Nwt-qmerhg wauaePlai            pm       3    27       0      0     0 _  30  10,900  0.0  0.3  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.3  0.0  0.3  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.3          0.1       0.2    0.0  10    0      12
CBTU Mormnktgft*                pm       3 _29_  0 _     0 __0 _32  10.9D0  0.0  0.3  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.3  0.0  0.3  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.4                   0.1 _     0.3    0.0  10 __0       12
mom ~InIgraion IudIe             pm~    28   268 _     0 _     0 __0    284             0.3  2.6  0.0  0,0  0.0    2.8  0.3  3.0  0.0  0.01 0.0   3.3        1.0 _     2.3    0.4 
WbdaMeFUMstwuPIla              pE        7 __  4 ___0 ___0 _  0      71   10.900  0.1  0.6  0.0  0.0  0.0 _  0.7  0.1  0.7  0.0  0.01 0.0   0.8             0.2 __  0.6    0.1  10  _ 0        I1
cTcmmwenwtjocutorgkwi.std w     P        4 _  40  _  0  _  0        0 _  44  10,900  0.0  0.4  0.0  0.0  0.0 _  0.4  0.0  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.5          0.2  _  0.4    0.1   1 0    0      1
mdio OrgJMgmft ft*d             PM   __  5     48 ___0 __0 _  0 __ 5    10.0010  0.1  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0 __0.6  0.1  0.8  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.8               0.2 ___0.4    0.1   1 0 __0        12
CpUr. Fern D.Pedro 1-wedoro     pm    _  41_  43 ___0         0     0 _  47_ 10,900  0.01 0.4  0.0  0.0  0.0    MS0.   0.0  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.5        0.2       OA_  .  0.1  10 __0      12
Trmkud lntpdyg. secto-e                  8    ea63_    0 _    0 __0 _69   10.9D0  0.11 0.6  0.0  0.0  0.0 __0.7  0.1  0.7  0.0  0.0  0.01  0.8              0.2 _     0.6    0.1   1 0    a_   12
Fbwumeohmisms               prn         _ 27 _ 0__0  _0  _30 10,9000.0 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0  _0.3  0.0  0.3  0.0  0.00.    0.3                                0.1       0.2    0.0  10    0      1 2 
DOmutraIlbm Iudrm                p        3    27  _  0 _     0 __0      30  10.900  0.0  0,3  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.3  0.0  0.3  0.0, 0.0  0.           .      01o_  .           .   10 _0  _  12 
kWffdonmdSvystuns    -           PM!L     6 7_64 _     0_  0 __0           70           0.11 0.9  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.9  0.1  1.0  0.0  0.0  0.-.03__  .                        .1 I                _
F1mkguand Trelig                PM   __       so_68__ 0 ___0 _  0         64  10,90   0.1  0.8  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.6  0.11 0.7  0.01 0.0  0.         .       .   __05        0.110 0o            12
PUdIedIE %d0m n                                               0     0      6a 0,0   0.01 0.3  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.3   .    .    .    .    .           .       .         .      .     0    0     1
Erh  rh P                        I  n      131  67       181    171    SI   1201  5.0I0)01]  0.31 o.i( 0.11 o.01   0.s0 0.0.1 oAI    oi] .1  0.01  0.71        021       05      .1110             1
sasmy
r                   ~~~~~~~~~T(OIAL BAMICOS6TS   _            65I 39    9    2291                                 1 ___    ___   
I               ~~~~~~PH4VS1CAL.  WITINGENCIES     a_             ..2  ..2       21J____ ___J 
I                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SItOHMAL          71   4    211  26                                                      
I                  ~~~~~~~~PRICE coNnNWNCES                    7                                                           1j 2J _. 
_____________________  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRMQ TOWA                                       78   481 2- 19-13



- 37 -
Tablg I
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANISPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
RIO DE JANC'RO
Table T2: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of th
Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditure
for items to be financed in each Category:
CATOOi          AU;OATE I7l XpRES                   % P 
IN 'S £VIVALENT)               TOBEq-A
(1) Works:
a. civil works                      33,000,000                     40%
and systems
b. rolling stock                   41,000,000                      56%
(2) Goods                             25,000,000   100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures for other items procured
._________________________  locally
(3) Consultant's services              9,500,000
and training:
a. training abroad                               100% of foreign expenditures
b. training in Brazil                            60% of local expenditures
c. consultants                                   50% of local expenditures for services of
consultants residing within the territory of the
Guarantor and 100% of foreign expenditures
for services of other consultants
(4) Unallocated                       20,000,000
TOTAL                        128,500,000
Source: Appraisal Mission, April 1892
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS: USe million
BA.NK.                 1994          1995           1996   |      997 .9998.
Annual                      29.01          51.0           27.0         1 6.5           5.0
Cumulative                   29.0          80.0          107.0        123.5         128.5
1/    Including initial deposits Into the Special Accounts totalling USS 11.0 million.



- 38 -
Table:
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
RIO DE JANEIRQ
Table T3: Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Million)
.RD          .      ESTIMATED            ESTIMATED      :     SSTiMAT.?
FISCAL YEAR AND         DISBURSEMENTS        CIUMMULATIVE        CUIM 11V
SEMESTER             PER SEMESTER        DISBURSEMENTS          : %OPTOTAL
1994
December 31, 1993                        19.0                 19.0                   1S
June 30, 1994                            10.0                 29.0                   22
1995                                                               E
December 31, 1994                        31.0                 60.0                   46
June 30, 1996                            20.0                 80.0                   62
1996                      _                    _    -_X
December 31, 1995                        14.0                 94.0                   73
June 30, 1996                            13.0                107.0                   83
1997
December 31, 1996        1               10.01               117.01                  91
June 30, 1997            1                6.5 |              123.51                  96
1998
December 31, 1997                         5.0                128.5                  100
Assumotions
Loan Effectiveness: June 30, 1993
Loan Closing Date: December 31, 1997
1V    Including an initial deposit of US$11.0 million into the Special Account
Source: Mission estimates



BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECEfTAIZATION PROJECT .
MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION ARRANGEMENTS
I   OVER                            SAO PAULO                                                  RIO DE JANEIRO                    rOE  N
oo         ,....................                              Mr..     ......................
EShDO                                                                                                                            ESUW
-I                                                            I                                      .      ' ......... .....
ESTADUAL  ~     FEDERAL                             PFIESIDENCIA   4~    '~FEDERIAL                   ESTADUAL        UIPA
lh S   -- 1 '''':-         -...   ,ADIECO
ESThOUAL           *            ~                   0    ~             -.            L  [IESTAD71~ TECINICA
ESTAMIAL                                      COORDEMACAOlEO D
COH~~~~~~DAFEERL SCDULO.0WA
.UCLEO DE                        PAULEDE NTO
CONTATEACAO                       PPAOGRDENACA0 E             -D
CENTRALIMA ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ DECNTAZAA
|~~~~~~~~i $, WMs
Nsffom  ECOEM O
I   EOACAENTIAUAA IE SAOPALOSEN                                        D RO ANI
IFOONSOUDACAOSISTEMAS                         SISTEMAS r MI B IMEIOA                        s1UCIONIAI
JURIDICA          PARMNOMATERIAL                                 MATERIAL                       PARMNOURDA
RODANTiE       RODAN~TE                       PAAMM                 UVC
RtECURSOS          ENGENHARLA   ... ..                 AS          OBRAS    ~        .   .. ENGENHARIA              REURSwOS
..  ...   .. ....-                                    E   E
CONSOUDACAO  MEIO AMBIENTE                                               V~~~~~~~~~~~EIO AMBIENTE  OSUAO



- 40 -
CHART 2
FLOW OF FUNDS
1   ......    ..  .    . ..  ,....... ;..
(;00J;IB.RD                                                                            UNIA1                                  .....................
--                                                                     ..- :.....:..
'-::'''.:::S   _          ~~~~~~...,.,,... ....    .........
.    .   . ..  ..  ....    .  .  ...   . .  ...  .  ~~~~~~- . - ...     ..    . . ...    ..
,        . .   ..   ...,.,         .,      ,...    ............
.   . _  ~~~~~... .. . . .
-   .  .:  : .:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :     .     .. .:.:.:..-.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..J. . :...  :..P. .. 
LEGAL  AG REEMIE NTS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                                    .....     . ...   ....    .1:'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... .... .. D.:..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                  .   --. . .    .    . .   .    . .
_                                           .  .   .   ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ... ........  ....   .........   .   .  ..
_ ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....              . .   ..    ...... .  ...   .... .   -.   ..    ...,..    ... -. ..
... ...   .. .:.  ..   -.. .. . .:.vv
. :: : PROJECt .::: .:CONVENANT :
_ ...............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... ............. ....  .". "......... SF .'.



-41-                                    CHAT 3
STU/RJ
LOAD DIAGRAM - MORNING PEAK HOUR
6:00 - 7:00
JAPERI
SANTA CRUZ
QUEIMAOQS
WCAPO GRANOE            COMENOAOOR
SOARES
N. IGUA¢U'      /
PAORE/ 
j  \MlIGUEL/              /
\  \    ~OLINOA        /
i        .. /  /  =DBELFORD.ROXo
DEOOORO .        /      CO         A  BARROS
I4_ONORIO GURGEL
t        ~~~MANGUEIRA
MAGNO
OENG.OE                  OUQUE         GRAMACHO
.''P  O CAX
. z w - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAIL LINE
20 tz3           rRAE LOAO
LAURO  r. RS
MULLI R                                        SCALE
[             ~~~~PASSENGERS/HOUR/OIRECTION
,          gB~~~ARA DE MAUA
.                                             2000
o1.ooo
o



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR IN BRAZIL
1.     This Annex outlines the Bank's past support for the Brazilian Urban Transport Sector and the
experience gained over a period ranging from 1977-1989. Four projects were financed: 3 focussed
on public mass road-based transport and one for rail-based transport.
A. FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1563-BR, US$88 MILLION, MAY 1978)
2.     Proiect Obiectives: (a) to improve urban public transport services, especially to the poor; (b)
to promote and support the development and implementation of appropriate urban transport policies;
and (c) to strengthen municipal, state, and federal capacity to prepare, appraise, and execute sound
urban transport projects.
3.     Proiect Content:  The project, broad in scope, included: (a) traffic engineering and
management measures in central urban areas and at critical points, the introduction of exclusive bus
lanes and segregated busways, widening of critical links, or construction of missing links in the road
network, reorganization or construction of bus terminals, paving of bus routes in low-income areas,
and training, technical assistance and institution strengthening to improve the delivery of transport
services. Project beneficiaries included the five MRs (Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Porto Alegre, Recife and
Salvador). Some nine different agencies were involved in implementation and overall coordination was
the responsibility of EBTU.
4.     Imolementation Exnerience:  The project suffered various delays due to:  (a) lack of
institutional support to the cities from EBTU, and Government changes in 1979 which led to staff
changes in the implementing agencies; (b) the preparation of final engineering designs and tendering;
(c) land acquisition; (d) availability of counterpart funds; (e) weak local coordination, and (f) poor
quality control of the works. The closing date for the project was extended twice, resulting in an
implementation period from 3 years to 5 years and 9 months. This suggests that the appraisal
schedule estimate was overly optimistic but performance was still substantially shorter than both
worldwide and LAC region profiles which were above eight years. The only specific covenant (property
revaluation), other than the standard conditions, was not met. The 5 beneficiary municipalities were
required to take the necessary steps to revise the valuation for tax purposes of properties impacted
by the project. In the early stages of the project, EBTU staff were less forceful than expected in
solving local problems and bringing difficulties to the attention of decision-makers. It must be
recognized, however, that EBTU was in its formative stages. This was a first project for them and
there was a learning process involved. As part of this process, and in order to achieve institutional
improvement, EBTU prepared several operational manuals to assist in the appraisal and supervision
processes. These manuals and the experience gained by EBTU (and the Bank) provided the basis for
the development of procedures applied in the Third Urban Transport Project (1981), which did much
to improve the quality and efficiency of EBTU's operations.
5.     Results: The project was timely and helped to orientate the Government's growing concern
about urban transport problems. The support given to the institutional development of EBTU, following
its creation in 1976, improved federal level urban transport planning. The OED concludes that "the
project was successful in implementing some of the most imaginative and radical bus priority measures
carried out anywhere in the world. These experiences have relevance for Bank-financed urban
transport projects worldwide". The bus priority measures included the development of the bus corridor



ANNEX 1
- 43 -                              Page2of6
concept. Bus corridors were designed to accommodate passenger demand levels which were difficult
to satisfy by conventional bus services. Schemes involved segregated busways introduced into the
existing road system, facilities for passengers and pedestrians, bus system reorganization (usually
trunk/feeder), traffic management measures and integrated bus fare systems. The project was also
generally successful in providing institutional support at the MR level where there has been a significant
improvement in the capacity of the agencies to tackle urban transport issues; the success was most
particularly noted in those Mrs where future urban transport investments existed, not necessarily
financed by the Bank, which provided the scope for continued institutional support. Finally, the studies
and institutional strengthening, financed under the project, coupled with the successful implementation
of the physical components, have led to policy changes affecting urban transport in Brazil as whole
and, in particular, lead to increased emphasis on public bus transport and greater attention to cost-
effective policies to traffic management.
6.     Sustainabilitv: Institutional, technical and financial resources are required to sustain the types
of investments included in the First Urban Transport Project. Although there were some institutional
and technical weaknesses, the project clearly provided institutional support to strengthen EBTU and
the local agencies. In the case of EBTU, this support was continued in the Third Urban Transport
Project. The major constraint with respect to sustainability has been the lack of provision for cost
recovery, or other funds to cover maintenance of the physical schemes implemented under the project.
The failure to make provision for maintenance of the investments is seen in practically all the city
projects.
7.     However, the project had a substantial institutional impact overall. It assisted EBTU at a
critical and formative stage of its development, by providing strong technical and financial support,
which enabled it to play a catalytic role in transport improvements in urban areas. EBTU subsequently
took increasingly more responsibility in the appraisal and supervision of Bank-financed urban transport
projects, a process which began with the five MRs included in the First Urban Transport Project, and
which culminated with full responsibility for appraisal and supervision of eleven out of the fourteen
urban centers included in the Third Urban Transport Project.
8.     The institutional strengthening of EBTU coupled with the experience gained, led to urban
transport policy changes which affect Brazil as a whole; these include more emphasis on traffic
management, increased emphasis on the provision of public bus transport, and the creation of
coordinating bodies at the local level to implement urban transport policy.
B. SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT (TRENSURB) PROJECT (LOAN 1839-BR, US$159 MILLION, JUNE
1980)
9.     Proiect Obiectives: (a) to establish a new company to own, manage, and operate a suburban
rail mass transit system on a commercial basis without operating subsidies; (b) to achieve a
significantly more efficient modal distribution of traffic, and use of all transport facilities in the
metropolitan region's North-South corridor; and (c) to promote the development of selected
employment growth poles in the North-South corridor near urban railway stations.
10.    Proiect Content: The project consisted of the construction of a surface suburban rail mass
transit system using electric unit trains between the central business area in Porto Alegre and the
municipality of Sapucaia, 26.7 km to the North; the establishment of a new company to own, manage
and operate this service; and a complementary program of policies and studies.
11.    Imolementation Exgerience: Despite some serious problems of procurement, passenger
services started in March 1985, one year after the originally planned starting date. The railway
company, TRENSURS, had successfully been constituted and during the course of project



ANNEX I
- 44 _                             Page3of6
implementation had changed its nature from a construction organization to a railway operating
company. The closing date was extended once by one year to December 31, 1986.
12.    Results: The Project Completion Report sums up well the principal lessons:
"(a) It is not sufficient that the railway servica has been successfully implemented. The
success of the project depends upon the service attracting sufficient passengers to make the
investments economically viable and the railway profitable. This will be highly contingent
upon the resumption of economic growth in Porto Alegre and in the evolution of the fares for
the users of alternative transport modes. In addition, the attractiveness of the system would
be enhanced by the implementation of the recommendations of the studies carried out under
the project (bus Integration, car parking restrictions, etc.);
(b) One major lesson to be learned from this project is that, in cases in which there is a need
for substantial policy decisions and the implementation of measures involving different
Government agencies subject to conflicting pressures, their commitment should be realistically
assessed during project preparation. The steps to ensure that these policies are implemented
on time should be carefully identified at the same time. In the particular case of the Second
Urban Transport Project, a more detailed action program including specific policy
implementation targets and appropriate measures for its enforcement should have been agreed
upon during appraisal; and
(c) Regarding the original objective of TRENSURB covering its working costs, the appraisal
was unrealistic tco expect that this would take place during the initial operation period. Only
after the system has demonstrated its reliability to the users, will the application of a revenue
maximizing policy be feasible. In the meantime, TRENSURB should review its staff needs in
order to streamline costs and carry out a tariff study to determine the optimal user charges.
The Bank should closely follow-up the implementation of these tasks in the context of its
ongoing and future involvement in the sector and continue to impress upon the Government
the benefits to be gained from a financially healthy public enterprise as well as the existence
of tools much more effective than transport subsidies to achieve income distribution
objectives."
C. THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1965-BR, US$90 MILLION, MARCH 1981)
13.    Proiect Obiectives: (a) to improve the quality and efficiency of EBTU's operations through
changes in its structure, procedures, and staff allocation; (b) to improve transport infrastructure and
operations in 14 medium-sized cities and conurbations (AGLURB); and (c) to pave bus routes in low-
income areas in medium-sized cities, state capitals, and metropolitan regions (PROPAV).
14.    Proiect Content: The project consisted of three subprojects: (a) the institutional subproject
included EBTU's reorganization, training, technical assistance and studies; (b) the AGLURB subproject
consisted of the establishment and operation of an urban transport management unit in each of the
14 cities and various components in low-cost improvements to existing urban transport infrastructure
with emphasis on public transport operations and improvements of planning and operation of urban
transport infrastructure and services at the local level; and (c) the PROPAV subproject included the
paving of about 850 km of bus routes in low-income areas.
15.    Implementation Experience: Project implementation delays occurred as a result of numerous
political changes, limited counterpart funds, the transfer of EBTU to the MDU from MT and, soon
thereafter, the Sarney Govemment's Economic Package, which delayed the signing of the 1986
Convenios by about six months. The project was amended twice, which included for the addition of



ANNEX 1
- 45 -                             Page 4 of 6
four cities to the AGLURB subproject and of 350 km of bus routes in low-income areas to the PROPAV
subproject, and resulted also in an extension in the implementation period from 4 years and 3 montu..
to 5 years and 9 months. EBTU was in compliance with all loan covenants.
16.    Results: The AGLURB subproject has done much to create a realistic and effective transport
planning environment in Brazilian medium-sized conurbations. The design of the physical components
drew heavily on the successful experience from the First Urban Transport Project. Emphasis of the
project was placed on cost-effective, traffic management based schemes in which assistance to public
transport (buses) has been the primary objective in the majority of components. The institutional
development of the AGLURB areas was achieved through the establishment of management units
specifically to coordinate project implementation. Transport planning agencies were formed to
coordinate transport planning and operation. Retention of the agencies would depend on decisions by
individual cities. At the time of project completion, the implementation delays arising from the political,
financial, and organizational factors meant that comprehensive ex post evaluations were not yet
available. As with the First Urban Transport Project, there is a risk that the institutional gains may not
be sustained unless a flow of funds is made available to AGLURB cities to continue purposeful
transport planning, and national policies provide some direction.
17.    The PROPAV program was innovative and was a significant step in EBTU's development.
PROPAV was essentially a subsectoral component and EBTU was responsible for all aspects of the
program. The program utilized local materials and labor-intensive construction methods to the
maximum practical extent and thus, the costs were initially overestimated. This permitted a greater
than targeted program to be undertaken and to date all 850km of paving have been implemented. The
PROPAV program is regarded as a highly successful program. To an extent, the success of the
program is demonstrated by the fact that similar paving programs have been undertaken in other
countries in the region.
18.    The institutional strengthening comprised two main aspects: (a) EBTU reorganization; and (b)
training and studies. The reorganization of EBTU proposed under the Third Project was completed in
1984. In general, the reorganization was judged to have increased EBTU's effectiveness. However,
with the changing demands arising from federal government policy on decentralization and from the
needs of the Fourth Urban Transport Project, additional changes were assessed as necessary.
19.    The training program comprised a conventional approach (of courses, seminars, etc.) to
transport planners and an imaginative training program for bus operators and personnel. The latter
program has been successful in reducing bus operating costs, accidents, and improving public
acceptability for bus services.
20.    The general delays in project implementation affected the commencement of the studies
proposed for inclusion in the project. Furthermore, EBTU did not initially attach high priority to the
studies. However, in the last year of the project, the study program was revised and additionally
provided inputs to the preparation of the Fourth Urban Transport project. In particular, the Financial
Study enabled EBTU to form a policy on on-lending, the vehicle operating cost study (carried out by
GEIPOT) was intended to provide data for incorporation in the EBTU OM and the SITURB program will
provide an initial data base for evaluating bus operating costs.
D. FOURTH URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 2822-BR, US$200 MILLION, MAY 5, 1987)
21.    Proiect Obiectives: (a) improve the operating efficiency of the urban transport systems in the
nine major MRs through savings in transport costs and time; (b) seek to pass savings from
improvements in the urban transport systems on to users, many of whom are among the urban poor,
in the form of lower tariffs and/or improved levels of service; (c) conserve energy and encourage
substitution of diesel fuel by promotion of domestic energy sources, wherever economically justified;



6ANNEX 1
- 46 -                              Page5of6
(d) strengthen the role of financial considerations In urban transport policy; (e) strengthen the major
institutions, in particular for coordinated investment planning for the sector as a whole; and (f) increase
the responsiveness of transport planning to local needs.
22.    Proiect Content: The project would have financed components selected from EBTU's rolling
urban transport investment plan (1986-1990) in Brazil's nine MRs (Belo Horizonte, Belem, Curitiba,
Fortaleza, Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador and Sio Paulo). Components would include
a Corridor Program, comprising investments, including design and supervision, to improve public
transportation (mainly bus systems, but also some trolley bus and ferry systems) and to correct
weaknesses in road networks. The Corridor Program would include infrastructure (including extensive
rehabilitation and reconstruction), traffic management measures and supporting organizational
improvements; and a system-wide Maintenance Program, including civil works, equipment, the
establishment of maintenance management systems, and institutional strengthening. The project
would also finance a sector-wide Institutional Program which would involve EBTU, MRs, MDU, and
CBTU. This component would include technical assistance and training for improved planning and
operational practices, studies and organizational measures to strengthen and improve sector
coordination, financial planning and urban transport policy development and pilot technological
development programs.
23.    Results: There was a considerable delay in declaring the project effective. Institutional and
severe economic problems at the federal government resulted in a very poor environment for the
project's implementation. The Fourth Urban Transport Project was canceled when the EBTU was
abolished by the Government in 1989.
E. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS TO BE LEARNED
24.    Despite the considerable achievements of the First Urban Transport Project and the success
of the Third Urban Transport Project, the projects have lead to the conclusion that a number of specific
issues in the urban transport sector require attention and should be addressed within the context of
overall sector reform: The principal conclusions can be summarized as follows: (a) the coordination
between the three levels of government in urban transport cannot be assumed, and must be dealt with
very carefully at the project preparation level, and reviewed in detail during the mid-term project
review; (b) policy for the sector must be strengthened to minimize distortions resulting from inefficient
physical and financial coordination between modes and to promote multimodal integration; (c) the tariff
levels should allow for significant cost recovery of working costs and must be complemented by
financing mechanisms which cover the shortfall; (d) demand levels forecast by the borrowers should
be carefully scrutinized; and (e) more attention must be given to maintenance management on
infrastructure. Some aspects require elaboration.
25.    Cost Recovery: Direct full-cost recovery is difficult in the urban transport sector, other than
for self-financing infrastructure and passenger vehic!es and vessels.  Therefore, transportation
infrastructure investments (urban and interurban) conventionally recover costs indirectly through
transport-related taxes. In the First Urban Transport Project, it was envisaged that partial cost
recovery would take place by the revaluation of properties whose values were affected by the project.
No such revision in valuation, however, has apparently taken place in any of the five MRs, partly
because of the difficulties in assessing an increase in property values through the low-cost
improvement schemes provided under the project, when alternative policies or conditions encourage
the provision of essential municipal infrastructure, at little or no cost to the beneficiaries. In retrospect,
the project should have addressed also the indirect cost recovery mechanisms.
26.    Maintenance: Lack of maintenance is clearly a problem in each of the five MRs included in
the First Project and is beginning to be apparent in the components implemented in the early stages
of the Third Urban Transport Project. Problems apply to a wide range of components. Maintenance



ANNEX 1
-47 -                               Page 6 of 6
covenants were included in the agreements for both projects but this has proved an ineffective
mechanism for ensuring adequate maintinance levels. While there is increasing awareness of the
problem and while improved maintenance standards are an objective of the Federal Government, there
is a need to develop an institutional and financial framework and capability to provide the necessary
funding and to carry out the appropriate maintenance. In hindsight, this problem probably reflects the
limitation of addressing narrow sectoral issues, in isolation of a broader policy framework for the urban
sector as a whole.
27.    Bus Reaulation: There has been a trend in some cities toward the creation of integrated bus
systems, controlled and regulated by a central, public authority. The central authority plans the system
and contracts with operators to provide services according to standard cost schedules. "Excess
revenue" is taken from operators on profitable routes to cross-subsidize those operating unprofitable
routes. The feeder/trunk concept may make this increased regulation easier to achieve. There are
several areas of concern. First, there are signs that the determination by the central authority of all
operating parameters is tending to lead to standardized solutions which may stifle innovation and
reduce passenger choice. Secondly, the contribution of the private sector is limited. Thirdly, the needs
of the passenger do not always receive adequate attention; for example, feeder/trunk systems force
passengers to change buses and in cases where full integration has not been achieved, passengers can
be worse off since they have to pay twice and are further inconvenienced by the change. A thorough
review of the regulatory framework is required urgently, to ensure improved accessibility, balanced
with equity and efficiency considerations, while encouraging greater role for private sector operators
of public transport.
28.    Urban Metrorail Systems: The construction of the Rio and Sao Paulo METROS (subways) used
about 24% of total urban transport investments made by EBTU during the 1976-1986 period (no Bank
financing). Although since 1984 the financing of the METROS is the responsibility of the State
Governments, the Federal Administrations, through BNDES, have continued to expand these systems,
without a thorough economic and financial examination of the investment's viability - and hence have
substantially increased their dependence on subsidies. Urban rail transit systems in Belo Horizonte,
Porto Alegre, Recife, and Fortaleza, which have, or are planned to be expanded, apparently without
overall and detailed study, raise two key issues: first, the implications of forced integration of buses
with the rail systems (here the experience from Porto Alegre suggests that this is a typical example
of unsuccessfully increasing bus regulation in that passengers are highly resistant to making transfers,
even when the fare is lower than a non-transfer alternative), and secondly, with the prospect of
continuing operating deficits for the urban railways, changes in the financial arrangements for public
transportation are likely to be required. Some years ago, the audit report for the First Urban Transport
Project concurred with the Bank Urban Strategy Paper of June 14, 1985 (Report No. 55867a-BR)
regarding the need to "move toward more rigorous economic evaluation of subway and suburban rail
systems while improving coordination of investment decisions to ensure macro-economic improvements
such as energy savings and increased urban efficiency". The experience of preparing the proposed
Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project, for Sao Paulo (approved on March 31, 1992) and the
proposed project for Rio de Janeiro, considerably expands on this, and provides the model for
reviewing instant decisions against a broader framework of Institutional, Technical, Economic, Financial
and Environmental framework, focussed on long term sustainability of the investments.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
TRAFFIC DEMAND AND MODAL INTEGRATION
1.    The objective of this Annex is to describe the transport planning analysis undertaken in Rio de
Janeiro to forecast the CBTU ridership during the project horizon. Since one of the most common
pitfalls in the rehabilitation of passenger rail systems is to overestimate traffic demand, a considerable
amount of time was dedicated to examine the justifications for the proposed traffic forecasts.
Furthermore, despite claims that the traffic levels proposed are only based on recapturing ridership
levels which were already achieved in the past and which lives mainly within walking distance from
the stations, the CBTU planning team was asked to demonstrate how those forecasts were estimated
and the effects on the potential ridership of different relative tariffs between bus and rail. The analysis
shows that there is good justification for the proposed traffic forecast. Following is a summary of the
methodology used in the forecasts and the highlights of the analysis.
2.    The topography of the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region with its several steep hills natural
barriers, makes the existing rail access a comparatively advantageous mode to reach the employment
areas, especially for those people who live in the fringes of the RJ municipality.
3.    The ^BTU team undertook a full Urban Transport Planning System (UTPS) exercise, updating
a model prepared in 1985. Basic population, income, ridership and other relevant data for traffic
forecasting, are presented in tables of this Annex. The traffic forecast was done by corridor to
evaluate each one of them separately and to drop from the project those which were not viable.
4.    Taking into account the master plan proposed for the municipality of RJ and basic O-D and trip
purpose data prepared in 1985 by consultants, the CBTU team updated a loait model which had been
calibrated for the following basic independent variables: accessibility to stations, trip times by mode,
waiting time by mode, relative fares by mode. The updating consisted in adding an additional variable
which reflects the relative variation between the seats (supply) offered by train and the seats offered
by bus. This was necessary because in the last few years, despite a considerable gap between the
rail tariff and the bus tariff, the rail traffic came down. This can be explained by the lower capacity
offered (and the precarious conditions of passenger cars in service) since the lower reliability alone was
not sufficient so explain such a big drop in demand in the last six years. The inclusion of such variable
has in fact improved the fit of the model and all the coefficients of the independent variables have the
correct signs. Details of the model are given in Report No. 19, which exists in the Project Files.
5.    The most interesting fact in the analysis is that the traffic appears to be relatively inelastic to
the difference between bus and rail fares as long as there is rail capacity capable of absorbing it. This
is probably due to lower trip times for rail, which even at low incomes per capita, are highly valued by
the users. The evolution of the rail traffic demand in CBTU-RJ suggests that every time that there was
an increase in seat capacity by the introduction of new trains, the ridership increased considerably.
This observation and the results of the model appear to agree.
6.    In order to materialize the proposed traffic demand, the CBTU team is well aware of the need
to change the image of the company, which at present transports mainly those who have no other
option. Therefore, all economic evaluations accounted for a longer period of time to recapture the
traffic as forecast. Accent was also put on modal integration, by emphasizing integration terminals
where the volumes justify it. Since the Bank's negative experience with the TRENSURB (see Annex
1, paras. 9-12), it was stressed that the most realistic way of having buses feeding trains is involving
the bus owners in the process by allowing them to invest in terminals and other aspects of the system.
An informal discussion with representatives of the bus owners confirmed their interest in operating



ANNEX
- 49 -                                 Page 2 of
integration terminals. Finally, since a substantial portion (50%) of the ridership to be recaptured
within walking distance of the system, there are good chances that the forecast will materialize.
Table 2A.1: Population Growth in Brazil and Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Area
(Millions of Inhabitants)
ANNUAL             ANNUAL             ANNUAL              ANNUAL
1960   GROWTH   1970   GROWTH   1980   GROWTH   1990   GROWTH    200011
__                 %                  4%)                  M%)    _____
9JMR      5.0     4.3        7.6      1.8       9.0      2.2       11.2      1.4        12.8
aLil   70.1       2.9      93.1      2.5      119.0     2.7      155.6      2.2        194.1
1/     CBTU Estimate. Source: ISGE, April 1991
Table 2A.2: CBTU Ridership Income Profile
MONTHLY INCOVIM RANGE IN US$
CORRIDOR           0    0-39   40-78   79-117   118-172   173-390   391-677    > 577
M.8.   0    0-1/2  112-1    1-1.6   1.6-2.2      2.2-6      6-7.4     > 7.4
a. D. Pedro Il-Deodoro'
b. D. Pedro Il-Japeri   3.8    6.8   31.5       24.3      17.4      13.8        2.0      0.6
c. D. Pedro 11-S.Cruz   6.0    3.7   22.0       24.0      20.8      19.1        4.0       1.4
d. D. Pedro Il-B.Roxo   2.6    4.9   31.8       27.4      19.2      12.2        1.6      0.4
e. B. Maua-Saracuruna   2.8    8.2   37.2       26.2      14.9       9.2        1.2      0.3
Global        3.8    6.6   29.1       25.0      18.4      14.5        2.6      0.8
1/ Included in S. Cruz Corridor. Source: CBTU, July 1991
Table 2A.3: Household Income/Month Basic Consumer Basket and CBTU Tariffs 1991
Housheold Incomo        % Of         o f Pet$.1    Basle Cons.         Cons.        CBTU
RaOge          Households    Houseold    BesketiHousehold       Basket/      Tarlff/
IUS$)                                            (US$),        H. Income    H. Income
_ _   _  _   _   _ _    l, _  _ _    . _   _  _    . _  _   _ _  _         4% )         ( % )
0 (zero)2                 4.6            3.9             39.0              .
0 -39 (up to 1/2 MS)       2.6          3.1              37.8             94           67
40 - 78 (1/2 to 1 MS)     11.7          3.1              37.8             64           21
79 - 156 (1 to 2 MS)      21.5          3.5             42.7              36           13
157 - 234 (2 to 3 MS)     30.9          3.6             43.9              22            8
235 - 390 (3 to 5 MS)     12.9          3.5             42.6        j     14            5
Above 390 (> 5 MS)        15.8          3.3              40.2            <10            4
(1)    MS: Minimum Salary (APR 91; US$78)
12)    The basic cost of the basket was Cr$12.495.86 (APR/91) - US$48.75 (household with 2 adults and two children)
(3)    Including people who receive only benefits.
(4)    CBTU monthly tariff. Estimated as US$0.12x22 days x 2 trips x 0.80 x # of persons/household
Source: IBGE. DIEESE. July 1991



ANNEX 2
- 50-                                     Page3 of 5
Table 2A.4: Population Growth In Municipalltes Served By CBTU
Rio De Janeiro Metropolitan Region
1 9 80                      1 9 9 O          AVQ3 ANNUAI
I NIIPALm ES    TOTAL  iDENSTY  O%   F TI T#  DENSITY I% OF                     POP.     I
POP.   POP.IHA.) TOTAL   POP.    IOP.HA  TOTAL- GR                  I
DuquedeCaxias           575,814       13.0    6.6  739,699        16.7    6.8            2.5
Itaboral                114.540        2.2    1.3  169.717         3.2    1.6            4.0
Itagual                  90,133        1.7    1.0  119,209         2.3    1.1            2.8
Mage                    166,602        2.3    1.9  227.393         3.2    2.1            3.2
Nllopolls               151,588       68.9    1.7  178,332        81.1    1.6            1.6
Niterol                 397,123       30.5    4.6  479,834        36.9    4.4            1.9
Novalguacu            1,094,805       14.3   12.5 1,511,915       19.8   14.0            3.3
Pwracambi                30,319        1.5    0.3   35,023         1,8    0.3            1.5
Fio de Janeiro        5,090,700       43.5   58.4 6.042,411       51.6   55.8            1.7
Sao Goncalo             615,352       27.0    7.1  825,338        36,2    7.6            3.0
Sao Joao de Merlti      398,826      117.3    4.6  508,221        149.5    4.7           2.5
Total         8,725,802    _        100.0 10,837,092    -        100.0
Sourc 1113GB. July 1991
Table 2A.5: Modal Split of Motorized Transport in The Metropolitan Regions
(% of Total Motorized Trips)
1980                                19
_AETROPOUTAN                                                         AUAUTAX   T           U RO
REGION           BUS   I+ TAXI I TRAIN I METRO          BUS       AUT
Belem                      57.0       43.0      -         -       68.0   32.0
Fortaleza                  57.0       41.0    2.0         -       69.0   30.0            1.0
Recife                     68.0       30.0    2.0         -       66.0   30.0            4.0
Salvador                   68.0       30.0    2.0         -       69.5   30.0            0.5
Belo Horizonte             68.0       30.0    2.0         -       69.4   30.0            0.6
Curitiba                   68.0       30.0    2.0                  ND      ND            ND
Porto Alegre               68.0       30.0    2.0         -       67.8   30.0            2.2
Fio de Janeiro             68.0       24.0    7.4       0.6       64.3   31.1            3.5       1.t
Sao Paulo                  54.0       39.0    3.0       4.0       43.0   45.0            4.0       8.0
Soumes: GEEPOT. CBTL and METRO/SP
Table 2A.6: Forcast of Public Transport Trips by Corridor
(% of Public Transport Trips)
CORRIDORS       I  BUS   I TREM    METROi   US B          TREM    METRO
IRO DE JANEIRO       I         I_  I_I_I   I_I
D. Pedro II - Deodoro       84         16   -            55         45    -
D. PedroU - Japeri          84         20   -            55         45    -
D. Pedroll - SantaCruz      84         12   -            72         28    -
WD. Pedro IlI- B.Roxo        84         13   -           79         20    -
Leopoldina                  84 _    13 _                 77f        23    -
SAO PAULO            I         I          I                I_I_    _   I_
Santos Jundial"             51|        281    211        481        31     2 1
Leste Tronco and Variante   431        101    471        151        161    69
Note- *.estimates; *-.ncluding FEPASA:4 NA..not available



A-NN-EX-2
- 51 -                                      Page 4 of 5
Tabl 2A.7: Passenger Traffic Per Work Day Actul
CORRIDORS                  |104  {t8o                      1     1987      1086       1989; |  ;1
RIO DE JANBIRO
D.Pedro D - Deodoro                          189        186        137        140        121        115
D.Pedroli-Japerl                             266        262        223        228        195        187
D.Pedro n - Santa niuz                       226        223        173        176        151        145
B.Maua - Samicuruna                          162        161        181        185        158        151
D.Pedro  - B.Roxo                            164        162        150        152        130        125  =
SUTOrTAL (DAILY AVBRAG8 X 1000)            1,007        994       864        881        755        723
ANNUAL AVERAGE (DAILY AVBRAOBx 300       302,100    298,200    259,200    264,300    226,500    216 900    2
ANNUAL PASS. I__________x_______   8,458,800  8,349,600  7,257,600  7,400,400  6,S42,000  6,073.200  6,0
Table 2A.8: Passenger Traffic Per Work Day Forecast
CORRIDORS
RIO DE JANEIRO                                                                  .
D.Pcdro f - Doodoro                          110    -    _   _ _ _ -      - - -      - _      _- _ _-
D.Pcdro 3 - Jaesi                            159        168        203        247        296        312
D.Pedro 11- Santa Cruz                       129        261        316        380        445        468
Baua - Saracuruna                            135        141        170        228        228       240
D.Pdio DI - B.Rozo                            97        100        121        152        171        180
StlBIrAL (DAILY AVBRAGB X 100)               630        670       810       1,007      1,140      1,200
ANNUAL AVERAGE (DAILY AVERAGEx 3W)       189,000    201,000    243,0001  302,100    342,000    360,000
ANNUAL PASS. ICM* 1000                  5,292,000  5.628,000  6,804,0001 8,458,800  9,576,0001 10,080,000
Table 2A.9: Operational Permnonce Targets
RIO DE JIWEIRO
Pass. Trans K (000's) day                    630        670        810       1,000      1,140     1,200
Headway (minutes)   Minimum                    10        10          51         5 I                   5
Maxmum                     20        20         15i        15         is         15
AvaibIllty of EMU's M%'                        56        60         80         60         80         80
UlIaXton of EMUs (%)                           97        98         98         s8         98         98
Staff (# of employees)                     11,298      9,300      9,800      9,300      9,300     9,300
'Raedo between avaIlable and  sng flet
Ratio between fleet In opeaton plus reseve and flet availabble.
Source: CBTU, July 1991



Table 2A.10: Basic Data Used in Demand Model for Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region
5~~~~~~~~ _
1985
Deodoro       38.3    61.7    0.04       0.12     12.7    -19       9.8       10      259      418      677
Japeri        40.3    59.7    0.04       0.21     -0.6    -31       15.1      10       325     481      806
S. Cruz       26.6    73.4    0.04       0.14     10.1    -14       11.6      10      273      755    1,028
B. Roxo       16.3    83.7    0.04       0.13  1 13.2    -12   1  17.7        10       117     599      716
Gramacho      22.3    77.7    0.04       0.14     13.6     -9       16.1      10       185     643      828
1990
Deodoro       16.3    83.7    0.10       0.29    12.7    -19        13.1     22.9      110     567      677
Japeri        19.8    80.2    0.10       0.62     -0.6    -31       15.6      16.5     160     646      806
S. Cruz        12.4    87.6    0.10      0.52    10.1    -14        12.7      16.6    128      900    1,028
B. Roxo       13.5    86.5    0.10       0.69    13.2    -12        19.1     14.1      97      619      716
Gramacho      16.3    83.7    0.10       0.57    13.6      -9       16.4     13.6      135     693      828
1996 (target yr.)
Deodoro       45.2    54.8    0.25       0.29    12.7    -21        7.0       10      306      371      677
Japeri        44.5    55.5    0.25       0.62     -0.6    -34       11.1      10      359      447      806
R. Cruz       28.0    72.0    0.25       0.52    10.1    -15        9.0       10      288      740    1,028
B. Roxo       20.1    79.9    0.25       0.69    13.2    -13        17.3      10      144      572      716
Gramacho      23.2    76.8    0.25       0.57    13.6    -10        15.6      10       192     636      828
1/    Train
2/    Bus
Source: CBTU, July 1991
as



ANN-EX 3
Page 1 of I
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
THE POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PLAN
1.   This Annex describes the studies and training to be undertaken as a basis for the policy an(
institutional development action plan. As mentioned in the main text the studies will be divided in threi
categories: (a) studies which are only CBTU related; (b) studies to enhance modal integration, anc
management of related transport agencies (CTC, METRO and CONERJ); and c) studies which examinE
the decentralization and financing mechanisms aspects. The training component should contribute tu
the skill upgrading of staff at all levels of the CBTU-RJ and of selected cadres of other transpor
agencies, through recycling, training in-house, in-country, and abroad.
2.   A list of the proposed studies and training is presented below. Draft Terms of Reference havE
been agreed during negotiations.
A.   CBTU Related Studies
3.   Preparation and implementation of a manpower development and organization plan with stafl
rationalizaton. This study will review the organization of each of the new systems by functional area
and as a whole. It will provide job descriptions for each of the main posts and a strategy to rationalize
the staff. It will review the salary scale and benefits and, based on equivalent positions in the private
sector, propose a new salary scale and a chronogram for its implementation. It will also define the
training requirements and recycling to be undertaken under the training component. Finally, it will
propose a new admissions policy based on the needs of the new operating Corporation (RJ Entity).
4.   Preparation of a cost accounting and tariff, management information systems and financial
management study. At this stage, it is clear that both systems need a good costing group which is
capable of determining the long run variable costs of the system and for that purpose separate the
fixed costs from the variable costs. In addition, the accounting and finance directorate should be
equipped with the required management information systems to allow a timely analysis of the costs.
Finally, the Planning Department should be prepared to estimate and operate on a regular basis the
tariff schedule, integrated tariffs, multi-trip tariffs, etc., using the information from the cost systems,
information from the competitive modes and socio-economic constraints.
5.   Preparation of an acton plan (and its implementation) to improve the management of stocks.
Both systems should have a computerized inventory management which will allow internal control and
prevent lack of spares due to poor programming. This action plan should be implemented and will
hopefully contribute to better the rolling stock availability.
6.   Preparation of proposals to subcontract maintenance and other operations to the private sector.
This study should examine the operational activities which could be subcontracted to the private sector
at competitive prices (at least two competing sources) and indicate the staff reductions which can be
achieved and potential operating savings if those activities are subcontracted.
7.   Action and revenue plan through promotion of station space, advertising and real estate
development on CBTU's real estate and action plan for their implementation. This plan should indicate
very clearly what are the non-operating revenues which each of the CBTU new systems can earn
through promotion of station space, advertising and real estate development. The study should provide
a detailed estimate of income and costs and suggest how the proposed plan should be implemented,
i.e., in-house or through outside parties.



ANNEX3
- 54 -                             Page 2 of
8.   Marketing CBTU's Image. CBTU's image is very poor in both Rio de Janeiro and S. Paulo. Aft4
the system is decentralized, management must undertake a marketing campaign to improve CBTU'
image and attract new ridership. This study will discuss proposals to improve CBTU's image, th
marketing plan to implement them and the incentives to attract new ridership.
B.   Modal Intearation Studies
9.   A study to update the Transport portion of the Master Plan for RJ with emphasis on rout
rationalization, modal and tariff integration. The RJMR Master Plan should be updated to account fc
the RJ Municipality Master Plan and recent changes in land use. In addition, more recent 0 - I
estimates are required and the connections with Niteroi must be analyzed. Basic guidelines for th
development of future systems must be prepared.
10.  CTC management and route rationalization study. CTC, the RJ state owned bus company ha
been losing a great amount of money, unlike the privately owned bus companies. The Governmen
defends its existence alleging that, if well run, the company serves as a benchmark in its negotiationi
with the private operators. The study will examine if there is a role for the CTC and the mos
appropriate structure for its routes and management. Should CTC be an operator, a holding or both,
The study should provide a blueprint for Government decision-making.
11. CONERJ management and route rationalization study. CONERJ is the RJ state owned compan~
responsible for operating water-borne transportation across to Baia de Guanabara, has also been losin(
money, and running a skeletal but popular service. There appears to be considerable scope fol
improving the operations of CONERJ, and also for examining the regulatory environment for stimulating
a considerable expansion of water-borne ferry services, and tourism focused services to Niteroi, and
other fast growing coastal settlements. The study should provide a blueprint for Government decision-
making.
12. RJ's METRO operations and management reorganization study. The RJ METRO was initially
planned to grab a more substantial share of the urban transport trips. Ironically, its unreliability and
its lack of capacity coupled with financial problems and poor management have led to a decrease in
ridership, when all metros in the world are increasing their ridership. The Governor has threatened to
shut down the system several times because it absorbs substantial revenues from the State budget.
At appraisal in July 1991, he requested this study to see how to proceed with a reorganization option.
Under the Protocolo signed in April 1992 between the GOB, RJ and MRJ, operational responsibility for
the METRO will pass to the MRJ. An estimate of the components required to extend the METRO and
its economic evaluation and financial impacts for several scenarios will be undertaken, as will a full
management review.
13.  Preparation of a study to examine the regulatory framework for concession of bus routes. This
study will examine the regulatory framework for concession of bus routes in the RJ/MRJ and in the
RJMR and will propose changes which will embrace deregulation and competition. It will prepare the
draft of a decree to be discussed by the respective Governments.
14.  Technical and economic feasibility study to transform D. Pedro II - Deodoro into a metro
operaton. This study is intended to examine the technical and economic feasibility of transforming
the D. Pedro II - Deodoro operation into a pre-metro type of operation. The financial impact of such
transformation will be examined in considerable detail and the sources for financing such system will
be specified.
15.  Feasibility study and preliminary design of two integration terminals in the RJMR, with
identification of private sector participation. Modal integration is one of the main priorities of this
project. In Rio, the lack of integration terminals has hindered progress on modal integration.



ANNEX 3A
_55                                Page3 of 6
Exploration of integration terminals by the private sector may induce rerouting of buses to the railway
stations, thereby reducing congestion. This study will examine two main integration terminals in the
RJMR and identify opportunities for its management by the private sector.
C.   Financina Mechanisms
16. Financing mechanisms study for transportation systems In the MRRJ with recommendations on
how to cover operating deficits and capital investment, action plan and chronogram for implementation.
This study will identify the financing mechanisms available and proposed to cover the operating
subsidies and cagital investment requirements of CBTU-RJ. The contribution by Federal, State, and
beneficiary Municipalities in the Metropolitan Region, should be clearly identified. The study should
make concrete recommendations and prepare a draft of Decrees to be discussed by the local
legislatures to provide the funds required. The study should also discuss how these funds should be
allocated and the role of the Agency for Local Coordination in assigning these subsidies.
17.       Targeting of Subsidies: Study for Reform of the Vale Transport:
A number of recent reports have identified shortcomings of the present system and the need for
modifications to reform of the use of the "Vale de Transporte", with a view towards improving its
targeting and administration, and ensure better utilization of transport subsidies to support travel by
the lowest income segments of the community.
D.   Decentralization Studies
18. Preparation and implementation detailed supporting studies to handover the CBTU-RJ, including
the legal, financial and institutional arrangements. This study will produce the final basis action plan
for the Ownership transfer of the CBTU-RJ to the State. In the action plan, all legal, financial, physical
and institutional arrangements, will be identified. Preparatory work, such as inventory of assets of
each subdivision, will be included at this stage.
19.  Preparation of contract plans between CBTU and subdivisions and subdivisions and the State.
This study is intended to prepare annual detailed contract plans with basic performance and financial
targets, obligations of each of the parties, etc. for the CBTU and RJ-Entity.
E.   Manaaement Information Systems
20. This component is intended to provide the CBTU-RJ system with the very basic software and
hardware required to perform the basic accounting, financial management and planning functions.
F.   Trainina
21.  Training will take place at all levels of the organization as proposed in the recommendations of
the Manpower Development studies. The training may consist of in-house, in-country, on-the-job
training or of visits or courses abroad in very specific areas. Selected training will also take place for
selected staff of the CTC, CONERJ and METRO, following the completion and recommendation of
Training Needs Assessment studies in the agencies.



ANNEX 3A
- 56 -                             Page 4 of 6
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
A.   Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan
22.  Decentralization Action Plan of the CBTU-RJ System: In carrying out the decentralization of the
System CBTU and the State shall, not later than September 30, 1993:
{i)       complete a study and an action plan for the ownership transfer of the CBTU-
RJ System to the State.  In the action plan, all legal, financial and
institutional arrangements to be undertaken as well as the inventory of
assets of CBTU-RJ, will be included (CBTU, RJ);
(ii)      complete a study which will determine the long run variable costs of the
CBTU-RJ System using the most appropriate methods available, will propose
the creation of a data base for more accurate costing and will recommend
and justify a tariff system which is cost-based and take into account modal
integration and affordability issues (CBTU, RJ);
(iii)     complete a study and an action plan for the setting up of a cost accounting
system and management information systems for the CBTU-RJ System (RJ,
CBTU).
(iv)      complete a study on the financing mechanisms required to cover operating
deficits and capital invostment and propose an action plan and chronogram
for their implementation in the CBTU-RJ System. The Federal, State, and
Municipality contributions should be clearly identified (CBTU, RJ).
(v)       complete the preparation of contract plans between CBTU-RJ or its
successors and the RJ. This study is intended to prepare a detailed contract
plan document with basic performance and financial targets and obligations
of each of the parties. (RJ).
23.  Mana_ement Action Plan of the CBTU-RJ System.  In carrying out a management action plan
to improve the performance of the system CBTU and the State shall, not later than September
30, 1994:
(i)        prepare and implement a manpower development and organization plan to
streamline the management and operations staff in CBTU-RJ, to propose
concise job descriptions and to staff them accordingly; (RJ, CBTU).
(ii)      prepare and implement an action plan to improve the management of stocks
for CBTU-RJ which will include a computerized inventory management to
improve internal control and prevent lack of spares due to poor programming
(RJ, CBTU).
(iii)      prepare and implement an action plan to subcontract maintenance and other
operations to the private sector. This study should examine the operational
activities which could be subcontracted to the private sector at competitive
prices (at least two competing sources) and indicate the staff reductions
which can be achieved and potential operating savings if those activities are
subcontracted (RJ, CBTU).



ANNEX 3A
- 57                               Page5of6
(iv)      prepare and implement an action and revenue plan through promotion of
station space, advertising and real estate development on CBTU-RJ. This
plan should indicate very clearly what are the non-operating revenues which
CBTU-RJ can earn through promotion of station space, advertising and real
estate development. The study should provide a detailed estimate of
income and costs and suggest how the proposed plan should be
implemented, i.e., in-house or through outside parties (RJ).
(v)       prepare an action plan to market CBTU-RJ image. After the system is
decentralized, management must undertake a marketing campaign to
improve CBTU-RJ System's image and attract new ridership. This study will
discuss proposals to improve the System's image, the marketing plan to
implement them and the incentives to attract new ridership (RJ).
24. Financial Studies Action Plan.
Not later than 12 months after loan signing:
li)       complete a study for the financing of capital and operating subsidies for
public transportation in the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro (MT,
CBTU, RJ, MRJ)
{ii)      the GOB will complete a detailed study and draft legislation to reform the
use of Vale Transporte, with a view to improving its administration, to
ensure direct targeting of transport subsidies to the lowest income segment
(MT, CBTU, RJ, SP).
25. Modal Intearation Action Plan of the CBTU-RJ system. In carrying out the modal integration
component of the project the CBTU and the RJ shall:
Pi)        Not later than September 30, 1994 submit a preliminary study and plan of
action to integrate CBTU-RJ, the METRO, CONERJ, CTC and the private bus
system. CBTU's integration with the METRO is an objective already set by
the State.  This study will propose alternatives for the physical,
organizational, and financial integration of the systems. It will make
recommendations to the State and Municipality on how to proceed with the
integration (RJ, MRJ, CBTU).
(ii)       Not later than 12 months after loan signing complete finalize Metropolitan
Region Transportation Plan (including a multi-year investment program, with
supporting financial, technical and institutional arrangements) and a time
table, satisfactory to the Bank, for multimodal integration. The MRTP will
be updated to emphasize the integration between CTC, CONERJ, private
buses, and the METRO. If need be, an updated version of the most recent
origin-destination traffic survey will also be obtained. Basic guidelines for
the development of new systems and integration terminals must be outlined.
A management and route rationalization study of the Companhia de
Transportes Colectivos (CTC),and of private bus operators, will be
undertaken, with support from the Rio de Janeiro Municipality.



ANNEX 3A
- s8 -                             Page 6of 6
26.  Training Action Plan of the CBTU-RJ system. In carrying out the training action plan of the
project the CBTU and the RJ and MRJ (where applicable) shall, not later than June 30, 1994:
{i)       complete a training action plan at all levels of tha CBTU-RJ organization
taking into account the recommendations of the manpower development
and organization study. (para. 2(b)(i) above)
(il)      complete a training action plan for selected cadres of the CTC, CONERJ and
METRO agencies taking into account the recommendations of the training
needs assessment studies (para. 20 above).



ANNEX 3B
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
PERMANENT WAY REHABILITATION WORKS
1.   General. The Rio de Janeiro system (CBTU-RJ) is organized into five corridors: D.Pedro II-
Deodoro, Deodoro-S.Cruz, Deodoro-Japeri, D.Pedro Il-B.Roxo, and B.Maua-Saracuruna, with about 532
km of main line track (Map IBAD 23133R). The system is electrified and passenger services are
provided with electric multiple units. The rail network mainline is broad gauge 1 .60m), and has an
adequate alignment, about 2% of total track length is in curves with less than 300m radius (Table 3B-
1), permitting if the track was maintained in good conditions, maximum speeds up to 80km/h.
Passenger traffic lines are laid mostly with 57 kg/m rail (Table 3B-2). Sleepers are impregnated timber
(about 69% of total number placed in mainline track), but mono-block and bi-block concrete sleepers
have been used on main line relaying for some years (Table 3B-3). Rail fastenings are rigid in some
sections and elastic in others. Ballast is crushed stone of reasonable quality, but not adequate in
quantity and in general, polluted (Table 3B-4). CBTU's main problem related to track
infra/superstructure is deferred maintenance, the track condition has been gradually deteriorating during
the last years as a consequence of budgetary restrictions. Track infrastructure is in poor to fair
condition, in particular the drainage systems are in serious disrepair, imposing an increasing number
of speed restrictions, thus affecting normal train operations and passenger safety; rehabilitation and
track upgrading are crucial in both systems to provide safety, transport reliability and to cope with
expected increasing traffic.
2.  Infrastructure Rehabilitation Works. Based upon the results of a track infrastructure condition
survey performed in 1990 for CBTU's network in the system, an evaluation module was developed and
investment priorities defined. Preliminary engineering designs have been completed, and bidding
procedures for related civil works agreed upon and scheduled, to meet the five-year targets of the
project (Annex 3F). These works would comprise improvements of drainage systems, consisting of
construction of drain channels in 12 line-km, and 1 75m of culverts; rehabilitation of eight bridges; the
construction of three pedestrian overpasses, 3,100m2 of retaining structures and some 2,200m of
fences and earthworks to stabilize and improve the road-bed (about 16,000 m3). The proposed
infrastructure works amount to US$ 9.8 million including contingencies, which together represent
about 3% of total project cost.
3.  Suoerstructure Rehabilitation Works. The track maintenance renewal program, would consist of
rail replacement with welded joints, elastic fastenings supported on treated-timber or concrete sleepers
and new crushed stone ballast; it aims at providing an improved standard of track to cope with
increasing traffic and safety regulations. The maintenance of the track, is being improved steadily by
a mechanization program, which calls for increasing use of specialized machinery. However, during
recent years, this program together with the general maintenance of the track, had to be scaled down
because of financial constraints. During the last five years only 88km of track were rehabilitated or
22% of the total main line network. In addition, the targets set for the sleeper and rail renewal program
were not met during the period 1985-1990, only 30% of the needed sleepers were replaced and 78%
of the program of rail renewal was implemented (TabIcs 3B-5 and 3B-6), as a result speed restrictions
on about 36% of the main line had to be imposed (Table 3B-7). It is important to note, that only US$
27.0 million (in current US$ dollars) or 37% of the program ($73.5 million) were spent in permanent
way maintenance during the period 1988-1990. A major effort would be needed in the short term to
reduce the backlog of track maintenance.
4.  CBTU's specifications for track rehabilitation are summarized as follows: () rails are standard
57kg/m of international specifications and are welded by the flush-butt process at a fixed depot into
longer lengths (240m) before laying and are then joined again in the track using alumino-thermit
process; (ii) rail fastening are of elastic type, to be used in all track renewals; (iii) timber sleepers are



ANNEX 3B
- 60 -                             Page 2 of 6
of selected wood and impregnated; (iv) concrete sleepers are locally manufactured, pre- or post-
tensioned and are placed at 1850 per km using elastic fastenings; and (v) crushed stone ballast is
provided at about 1500m3 per km. CBTU has prepared a detailed program for selective track renewal
and rehabilitation, to be initiated in 1992, and completed in 1994; it calls for the purchase and
installation of rails, sleepers, fastenings rail switches and ballast in selected sections of both systems,
where total renewal or partial rehabilitation is needed, focusing on those sections whose present
conditions are not currently providing reliability and safety. The track program is aimed at the
rehabilitation of some 227km and 16km track renewal of main line in the CBTU-RJ, distributed among
the five corridors and the laying of 4.5km of double track on the new section C.Eliseos-Saracuruna at
the tail end of B.Maua-Gramacho (Saracuruna) corridor or 154km equivalent (Table 3B-8). These works
have been estimated to cost US$ 59.0 million, including contingencies and they represent 22% of the
total project cost. A summary of the condition of the track in the system, before and after the project
and the track rehabilitation program (1992-1996), are presented in Tables 3B-9 and 3B-10 of this
Annex.
5.  Track Maintenance Eauio nent Rehabilitation. In early 1991, CBTU restructured its organization,
including the permanent way labor force, decentralizing the administration by corridors. It is felt
however, that further refinements are still needed for productivity improvements, and for allowing
private participation in track maintenance tasks and thus continue to reduce its staff. In addition, the
planning, programming, cost accounting and monitoring methods and procedures need to be
strengthened. A specific study (man-power development/rationalization overall CBTU) has been
included for this purpose in the project (See Annex 3A). The track maintenance force in CBTU-RJ is
divided inf! six residencies (five for the passenger iines and one for the freight line), with 13
superintendencies (nucleos), and 55 working gang groups totaling about 720 staff (a reduction of 140
staff compared to 860 in 1986), representing 0.84 staff/km, still on the higher side if compared with
modern standards (0.40/0.50 staff/km). Each unit has the responsibility for periodic routine
maintenance in their sections of track, including the cyclical work performed annually by special gangs
with the mechanized equipment. Major rehabilitation or new track works are carried out by the private
sector. The standards of maintenance can be assessed regularly on the graphs produced by a track
condition recording unit; the system has one Permanent Way workshop in Deodoro which provides
maintenance support to track equipment. The condition of the equipment fleet has been gradually
deteriorating because of deferred maintenance, to a point in which a significant number of equipment
is currently out of order, having an average availability of about 35%; the project includes the
rehabilitation of existing maintenance equipment, the cost of this component has been estimated at
US$ 4.1 million including contingencies, representing about 1.5% of total project cost.
Table 36.1: Summary of Track - Une Characteristics
% WCURVIN        LoomT OF CURVss
0 -CORRIDOR          lENB             30O - - R OOm-       R    00 m (m)
D. Pedro II - Deodoro                159.40                 14                 3,037
Deodoro - Sta. Cruz                  104.10                  3                 1,283
Deodoro - Japeri                     111.90                 11                   190
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo                 96.60                 24                 4,587
B. Maud - Saracuruna                  60.30                 26                   257
Sub Total                       632.30                   .
Freight                               96.90                 18                 5,307
Meter Gauge                          227.80                 15                10,000
Sub Total                       324.70
TOTAL                         857.00 _
Source: CBTU, July 1991



ANNEX 3B
- 61 -                              Page 3 of 6
Table 3B.2: Summary of Track - Rails
...         ~~~~~~~~~~~.....................
D. Pedro II - Deodoro           TR-57         Tons              16,476              70
Deodoro - Sta. Cruz             TR-57          Tons             11,870              70
Deodoro - Japeri                TR-57         Tons              10,259              70
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo           TR-57         Tons               72795              50
B. Maua - Saracuruna            TR-57         Tons              4,730               70
Freight                         TR-57          Tons              7,140              50
Meter Gauge:                    TR-37         Tons              8,482               50
TR-45         Tons              6,718               50
TR-57         Tons              7,477               70
Source: CBTU, July 1991
Table 38.3: Summary of Track - Sleepers
g~~~~~~~~OO m~~                                             MN.nuK
PERCENTAGE
D. Pedro II - Deodoro                 91            1              8
Deodoro - S. Cruz                    100  _
Deodoro - Japeri                      80            3             1 7
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo                  71           4             25            --
B. Maua - Gramacho                    69                _     ___31_I
UNITS
D. Pedro II - Deodoro            144,526        13,905         1,000            14,905
Deodoro - S. Cruz                104,123
Deodoro - Japeri                  89,922         2,952        19,085            22,037
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo             68,380        4,040         24,220            28,260
B. Maua - Gramacho                41,473             -        18,760            18,760
TOTAL                     448,424                            _           83,962
Percentage                            84                                            16
GRAND TOTAL   532,386
Source:    CBTU, July 1991



ANNEX ^
- 62-                               Page4of
Table 3B.4: Summarv of Track - Ballast
COA_0OJI                     AUA#M
D. Pedro II - Deodoro                      Fair                7,000           4.4
Deodoro - Sta. Cruz                        Fair                 SOO            0.5
Deodoro - Japeri                           Fair                5,000           4.5
D. Pedro Il - B. Roxo                      Bad                 4,000           4.1
B. Maua - Saracuruna                       Fair                3,000           5.0
Note: Good - Clean > 1.6mm3/m
Fair - Partially clean 0.8 - 1 .5m3/m
Bad - Polluted < 0.8m3/m
Source: CBTU, July 1991
Table 3B.5: Summarv of Track - Sleeper Renewal
1985                         257,091                     127,634            50
1986                         267,452                      84,763            32
1987                        329,675                       97,835            30
1988                        265,685                       70,007        2__6
1989                         282,017                      70,606            25
1990                         270,012                      50,000            19
1985-1990                    1,671,932                     500,845            30
Source: CBTU, JuIV 1991
Table 38.6: Summary of Track - Rail Renewal
...... ...~
1 6                            30.7                 14.0                 46
1987                           32.9                 28.0                 85
1988                           36.6                 36.0                 98
1989                           47.4                 38.0                 80
1990                           46.5                 35.0                 75
TOTAL                          194.1                151.0                 78
Source: CBTU, July 1991



ANNEX 3B
- 63 -                                Page 5 of 6
Table 38.7: Summary of Track - Speed Restrictions
D Pedro II - Deodoro              159.4       70          78.0        49         40
Deodoro - Ste. Cruz               104.1       80         13.5         13         60
Deodoro - Japeri                  111.9       70         25.7         23         30
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo              96.6       60         57.0         59         30
B. Maua - Gramacho                 60.3       70         15.0         25         30
TOTAL                     532.3                  189.2       35
Freight                                       60                      9          30
Meter Gauge                                  40/60"                   40        30/40
Note: 1/ 60 km/h Long Distance Passenger trains
40 km/h Freight trains
Source: CBTU, July 1991
Table 38.8: Track Rehabilitation Program (1993-1997)'
(Track-krn)
CORRIDOR              1893     1994       1995      1996       1997      TOTAL
D. Pedro II - Deodoro          2.0       18.8      14.2                            35.0
D. Pedro II - Sta Cruz         2.0      21.7       22.3       7.5                  53.5
D. Pedro II - Japeri           6.0       15.4      7.3        9.0                  37.7
D. Pedro II - B.Roxo           7.0       16.1      18.0       22.0                 63.1
B. Maua-Saracuruna             7.0      17.0       6.2        7.5                  37.7
TOTAL                 24.0      89.0      68.0       46.0                 227.0
"In addition, there are 16 Km of track renewal (1994 -4km; 1996 - 6km & 1996 = 8km)
Source: CBTU and Mission estimates, July 1991



Table 3B.9: Summary of Track Condition Actual CBTU-RJ
~~~~L 1'
D. Pedro - Deodoro      159.4        3       57       70     62       38       50   Regular      91       09    1,517        22
Deodoro - Sta. Cruz     104.1        4       57       70    100         -      50   Regular     100         .    1.276       22
Deodoro - Japeri        111.9        3       57       70     51       49       70   Regular      80       20    1,332        22
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo    96.6        3       57       50     71       29       50    Bad         71       29    1,424        22
B. Maua - Saracuruna     60.3        3       57       70     33       67       50   Regular      69       31    1,424        22
Source: CBTU, July 1991
Table 3B.10: Summary of Track Condition Overheaded Track
- -..- X, - 
N                                                                       N
D. Pedro - Deodoro    36.8                57         .      62      38        25    Good       88         12              70      17        2
Deodoro - Sta. Cruz   37.7         .      57         .    100         -       25    Good      100          -              80      17        3
Deodoro - Japeri      20.3        .       57                51      49        25    Good       80         20              70      17        3
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo  20.6    17.6       57       100      64      36       100    Good       52        48               60   17132      2(1
B. Maua - Saracunma    11.8    4.541      57       100      30      70       100    Good       72         28              70      17      2/2
I1     Good                       Elastic             Concrete                   1,600
2          j    Regular          Elast/Rigid         ConcrANood               1,550 - 1.850
3___________         Regular          Elast/Rigid           Wood                  1,300 - 1,550
|____________ 4           Regular          Elast/Rigid           Wood                     <1,300
1/    Km of section, each section has up to four lines totalling 227 Krn
2/    See Table 38.4
3/    Cass of Track 
41    New double Track
oI
_S



ANNEX 3(
Page 1 of
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION, AND MODERNIZATION OF STATIONS
1.    The suburban rail transport systems in Rio de Janeiro have been subject to several reforms ani
expansion processes during the last decades to cope with increasing passenger demand. 14,!wever
works performed were highly constrained by scarce fund resources and often lacked proper planning
When the track gauge was changed from meter to 1.60m, and the traction power was replaced tc
electric, the profile of the platforms of existing stations was not reformed accordingly, nor was thei
height in relation to the level of the track which, in turn was modified repeatedly under severa
maintenance works. Furthermore, the passenger accesses and transit areas of many stations arn
inadequate in size and location (see photographs at end of report), causing discomfort to the riders an(
often potential hazardous conditions.  These aspects, together with the lack of appropriate
maintenance contributed to a great extent, to induce passengers to other modes of transportation, an(
indeed, deteriorated the image of CBTU among the users and the public opinion. A major effort would
be required to improve passenger facilities.
2.    To this effect, CBTU recently completed a survey of all stations and prepared a comprehensive
program for the rehabilitation and modernization of selected stations in the system. The program alsc
calls for the construction of 4 stations in the new section Campos Eliseos-Saracuruna in CBTU-RJ
Details of location and type of works to be performed on those stations under the project are showr
in Charts 3C-1 and 3C-2 of this Annex. The proposed works contemplated in the project have beer
estimated to cost about US$60.9 million including contingencies, which together represent about 22%A
of the project cost.



-66 -                                                    ANNEX 3C
Page 2 of 3
,                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cha4 aC-I
Station Rehabilitation Works
QBemarnta4cmO690S  _ Japorl
~h6.015   bn85.8O95                                                                                                Ion 70.004
brn "74                                                                                                              km e7.000
brdo  Nev".                                                                                                              km 6E&as
PaciOna cgaer
km 49.283                                                                                             arn6t.479
Cosmos 
Wicaib.  km 47.398
ban 45.320                                                                        EngeMako
** j9in  Ddo Mon.reir
Iakm 43.80i k 4.920
O Campo Grvado |IG.08
.  .   km 41.621                                                     /      |  /
Auguto Vascasloa
km 39.080
' SaztissImo
n    36.83                                  kg
Seienador Camari                            m                            I
33.229                 Coneonda4er Aors_                                  nfla
Pudt M mig 81                       km  k., 3m 39.67a
ksm 30.196           Msuilt,a                   km" 34t.300    KOX       km 41.978
kmr 29.248                  luEng. Pasos         F Suxniho       . da kRcha
eaIengoin km 30.390                          km 30.38       km 28.
Magaiha.1    Basto       km 27.717 km.2
Ian 2610
Via MID         x        m 28.484 P
Ion 24.264          R. de Albuquerque              km2504
Serito RibeIm   km 20.60-24.4r                      25.042
km .03   otlnneoeiv kmilG.. .kmeg          I1mZ.962]i
km 2es8d  km 145                                                                     § do  tu km 15.iQ
km 7.74                 kmiBir  5.700Se 0()    Mait guind h            S. kmnt 8.680          ] |g  -               * E
km=t 19.878               km      ik9o 3m. A.O 2Me 182
dur   O                             .Co1ShoO                  ,.   km                                      a       a
kmn t320 kmt.32 tnn          R.4 Veada
M*- r9      m  t278Cot l                        iR la.hv               Banlr. m ta00.
i-cm~ ~~~~~~~~~an                                           Wmse  kmi.4  _   *k  t.4     bok  Z9
Eng nho Cnoz                         km 1so117 F                                             nawug04
$km 18.o09    Makmsi               Cav28W                                      2 tkm02e  t.Oib+km4*§
R~~~~~~Ian 230                                     uni Suu;Mkm4.8t
km s.se      80 dw0va                                            G,-m  .6
C=i km3Pi2t. Mub \                 St IChmt  m5,3
S.8viuvzo la 143_                                              de44t  Lua -Nu    l)kwn      id5ik5597
kmI.40      _g 14SS
kmZ~~~~~~or                                             Pin - k/  m7            / 9i!0i    i                  i
O.Pdill                          DeCah                    CicA  -k  t                     ,.jma             _     e
Ianm0.0007                        kmiS  9.A4 Ma           km I u4                                      lw .|32 09g0
S.~ ~    ~ ~ mOit kmO.OOO Xavier. k/ 7.07                                                       Swul-kmO        ' 
.Stp                                                           o Ll                                                S
bv92]a                                            wo 0.0                                     bfr - lw 5i0  ln.9t      gX 
lu 3.     i: 460i                        ;                ]        >E
Laum~~~ ~ ~ ~ M                                                        i t               tb
kn~~~~ ~ ~ ~ *3C                                                           t



Station Rehabilitation Works
z~~~~ _i
\    -_     O~~~.Pe*oU.Ddo  |   D@o.boSmCnaz   Oj s$Xp  | D.PibIi  e Ibaasi* Otamdi
1X3~~~~~~~~ 4jA a                                                  3Sia
d_Shii_ _li_;                          0_0_13*111*  | *i _    _ _ _ _ _**_ _***__  
FBh6fi151m~ ~ _) _ _a _11                                   __-   e***    _ __ =__
______  *5         . _                  _ _ _    * _  - _ _ _ _ _  _                E t *  _ _  t
Even       2.                  -0               E- Lp  E                  S *  E'  4 E   E
oIMauuI inf    t1f1             *             .e  * . v . S  .  e ********.**  S1 .3
|dPlidosisian~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                         D   (Dt1     CL <       > w1 
diMo~~~~~0                                       5.0       0
Consbu*njtw
Accesses00000                                                                            
| dTrsckLovel l i  X  EL:J   X  . 9. -A--L A. X-9--X   J 8 |z~~~~~  --
d ddrPdestimn                                    S  00ol00 
Accwsses   -          - -                  * T - - - - - -
| Dstiulon                         1               01t   @ 000000        @ 00 _   _*0  * * 0  _  |  | |
ofFo=Si    1.                I I -                               .-- -I I--
ReimtnAhIaon                            ...*...   *51000    00 0.0 01 00           0 *@
olFtmncI              I~~~1              -                         -- - -    - - - - - -
'M E*WNS    0          0       l I    S Se *I00500
_ _ _ _ _   -                            @ 0I  I  I1    I*   . 5  4   10 .
ErdaMguent     .. .                                                                0 * ***
or Constimcton  0  - l                                    1   l 0000o            
Constiuctin*****I@S I* **                                                            0
of Opeiatl wonal  Office0         0    0      i      10 0 O o   l    l   0 0 0 0          
00000     *51           ~~~~~0 010        0 0 0 00 0 0
EmOnerd Passs
______PM _                       I   I_
Modification                                                               a1        1 1    
lEle Sl&TOleCi  _-  -I-I-   -  iCA)
D_mo___n  - *e*@@@I@@0oeo  Ie@ teIeeieee@i                         Ho 1



ANNEX 3l
Page 1 of I
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
ROLLING STOCK AND WORKSHOPS/DEPOT REHABILIlATION
ACQUISITION OF SECOND-HAND LOCOMOTIVES
General
1.    This Annex evaluates the Investment Proposal requirements raised by CBTU with regard to
Rolling Stock and Depot/Workshop maintenance support facilities. The proposals are designed to
improve passenger train set availability and reliability to meet the planned future increased revenue
service.
2.    Such proposals cover the following areas: (a) Refurbishment/ modernization of existing
passenger train sets (EMU's); (b) replacement/ renovation/refurbishment of existing Depot/Workshop
equipment; (c) procurement of additional second hand locomotives; (d) refurbishment of freight cars.
3.    This Annex covers the CBTU-RJ system commenting on its requirements as listed in para. 2.
The existing train sets are in average overall condition but can presently only achieve around 60%
service availability. This substantial shortfall is caused by the reasons listed under para. 5. There is
a shortfall in the number of preventive maintenance Depot facilities to support train set availability.
Proposals to increase such facilities are also covered in this Annex.
4.    The main overhaul Workshops contain a mixture of adequate and run-down plant, machinery
and buildings. As a result of the outdated facilities productivity is severely affected. The investment
sought for the improvement proposals will raise output significantly.
Rollino Stock Rehabilitation
5.    Within the CBTU-RJ network there are numbers of passenger train sets presently not available
for revenue service due to a number of reasons, mainly: (a) accident/collision damage; (b) lack of spare
parts due to budgetary restrictions; (c) material/components cannibalization, resulting from (b). These
factors significantly reduce the numbers of train sets for passenger service use (train availability). An
ideal service should provide between 90% - 92% availability. The remaining 8% - 10% is being
stopped for essential maintenance. By investing in the rehabilitation, modernization, and re-equipping
proposals outlined in this Annex, CBTU-RJ network would raise its train availability figures significantly
(see Annex 2 for targets).
6.    Attached as Table 3D. 1 is the actual fleet size for CBTU-RJ showing current train availability.
Table 3D.2 shows the future plan for train availability for Rio de Janeiro after implementation of the
rehabilitation proposals. These tables show substantial anticipated increases in train availability after
ir.plementation of the various proposals. The proposals presented to achieve this, as described herein,
are straightforward, feasible and technically sound. CBTU would have to contract out all the work
proposed due to lack of current capacity within their own organization. The work contents of the
proposals are such that a wide range of capable Contractors could submit competitive bids. The
Contractors could be Local or International or a combination involving Joint Ventures or Licensing
Agreements. The overall work contents entail mechanical, electrical and civil engineering. The extent
of work, coupled with the quantities involved, would be very attractive to interested Contractors.
Therefore, the bidding should be extremely competitive.
7.    The issues involving the types of bidding suited to such work have been discussed in detail.
Basically, out of the seven Rolling Stock proposals, six can be subject to International Competitive



ANNEX
- 69 -                              Page2o
Bidding (ICB). This is due to. (a) Their general scope of work and extent of material/parts supply;
the large quantities involved 015 + 12 + 2 + 5 EMU's). However, difficulties are foreseen regarding 1
proposal involving the two (2) only, EMU's, Series 500, rehabilitation proposal for Rio de Janeiro.
this particular case both the work content and component parts supply are specialized. It is anticipal
that the original manufacturer of the train sets could be the only source able to return those two tn
sets to their original condition in order to ensure compatibility with the other sets in the series.
8.    Of the seven rehabilitation/modernization proposals, five involve the stainless steel carba
shells. Such a factor significantly incredses the justification for renovating instead of replacement
new stock due to their non-corrosive values and strong construction. This, coupled with the cast sti
bogies, makes the life extension (in the region of 30 years) entirely feasible.
Workshoo/Denot Rehabilitation
9.    The Rio de Janeiro network is served by strategically sited Workshops and Depots providi
overall train preventive maintenance and heavy overhaul facilities. However, from site visits to tl
Depot/Workshops it is readily seen that extensive re-equipping, renovation and reform work is requir,
to support the planned passenger train service enhancement program. The sites visited display
outdated and run-down machinery, plant, equipment and working environments in several places.
10.   For example, the existing above-floor wheelset lathe at Deodoro Workshops is 35 years ol
It was stated that the machine can now only output one wheelset every two hours. The Missior
cursory examination of the process would support this. A modern, equivalent machine should I
capable of outputting wheelsets at the rate of two per hour (4 times output). All the propos=
associated with Depot/Workshop re-equipping and reforming are in the Mission's opinion entire
justified and overdue. The implementation of the proposals would create more efficient, effective, sa
and attractive work environments. This would lead to increased train set output required for tI
planned increased passenger service by significantly reducing the time spent by train sets und
maintenance. Reliability of train sets in revenue service would also increase. An improved wo
environment would be an additional benefit. Table 3D.3 lists the rehabilitation, re-equipping ar
modernization proposals identified.
11.   The construction of the two new Train Wash Plants is justified.  Presently, only of
mechanized wash plant exists sited on the Dom Pedro II - Japeri Corridor, at Japeri. To clean the trair
operating on the other corridors, washing by hand at the stabling sidings is the current practice. Th
is labor intensive and very inefficient. The sittings of the proposed two Wash Plants have be(
planned to handle the optimum numbers of trains with minimum disruption to services.
Acquisition of Second Hand Locomotives
12.   A proposal has been compiled associated with a requirement for nine (9) second hand diese
electric locomotives of 1 600HP for RJ.
13.   A need has been identified to increase the existing fleet of five to eight in order to support th
planned increased passenger revenue service. This is for two main reasons: (a) To provide addition;
support for network maintenance. This involves Permanent Way and Traction Power Distributio
systems. The additional locomotives are required to ensure adequate availability to haul wagon
containing materials such as track ballast and rail for the Civil requirements. For the overhead lin
power requirements the locomotives are needed to attend the associated maintenance vehicles. Th
nine locomotives required for RJ will be essentially used to carry out the proposed Permanent Wa
Rehabilitation program; (b) to provide ready assistance for retrieval of passenger trains stopped i
service through breakdown or system failure. Both these factors have the indirect effect o
(i) decreasing passenger train headways thus increasing service, and (ii) providing greater passenge
comfort, safety and well-being by better train ride quality and faster breakdown retrieval.



.ANNEX
- 70 -                              Page 3c
14.   A study of the numbers of locomotives throughout the CBTU system raveals that no equivall
specification locomotives are available for transfer to meet the needs described. These locomotii
will not be financed by the Bank.
AcQauisition Versus Rehabilitation of Eauioment
15.   CBTU's proposals are  categorized  as follows: (a) Passenger Train  Set, (EMI
rehabilitation/refurbishment/modernization; (b) Workshop/Depot, replacement/reformation/renovati
of plant, machinery and equipment; (c) locomotive, new procurement; (d) freight car refurbishme
Acquisition against rehabilitation can be debated associated with these requirements as follows:
16.   Passenger Trains - The age of the train set units involved are:
Stainless steel - 15 EMU Series 800 - 1 1 years
Stainless steel - 12 EMLU Series 900 - 11 years
Stainless steel - 2 EMU Series 500 - 14 years
Carbon steel - 5 EMU Series 400 - 25 years
NOTE: (i) For the Series 400 sets electric traction equipment, auxiliary energy supply ai
traction control equipment exist within CBTU. Such items of equipment would be fre
issued to the successful Contractor.
The proposals listed above lend themselves entirely to rehabilitation work. As mentioned earlier, tt
stainless steel bodyshells and the heavy cast steel bogies ensure a prolonged life for the vehicles.
17.   Analysis of each proposal supports the case for refurbishment against new procurement. Tt
main reasons being: (a) Faster "delivery" time, thus providing the proposed increased passenger servic
earlier; (b) lower investment cost (around 50%); (c) equivalent car life expectancy.
18.   WORKSHOPS/DEPOTS - From detailed visits to all sites associated with the proposals, th
individual requirements are supported. These are to replace/reform/renovate/refurbish/renew the rui
down, outdated facilities identified. The implementation of the proposals would contribute to attainin
the designed objective, that is, to increase train set availability for revenue service.
19.   LOCOMOTIVES - As stated previously, it was confirmed that there are no existing, suitabl
locomotives anywhere in the system for transfer. Therefore, the procurement of second-han
locomotives (9 for RJ) is justified.
20.   FREIGHT CAR REFURBISHMENT - To reach the goals set for the Permanent Way Rehabilitatiol
Program, CBTU will need to adapt the types and size of its freight car fleet. CBTU intends to refurbisl
and transform 80 wagons to meet the several Permanent Way activities.



ANNEX 3D
- 71 -                             Page 4 of 8
Work/Investioations to be done by CBTU orior to Contract Awards
21.   Passenger Train Set Rehabilitation
15 x Series 800
12 x Series 900
2 x Series 500
5 x Series 400
(a) No design changes are involved; (b) the Technical Specification and Work Contents List
have been compiled for each of the four proposals; (c) prior to contract award the cars will be
finally checked to confirm the components/item fitted in case further cannibalization of
materials takes place; (d) CBTU confirm, and the Mission agrees, that no additional design
involvement is required for the four proposals. Existing design and specification data will be
furnished to the successful Contractor.
Worksho D/De oot/Re-Eaouio ina/Modernization
22.   The 15 individual proposals subm.tted are divided into the following categories: (a) New
buildings/plant construction - 2 proposals; (b) civil work/refurbishment - 4 proposals; (c) replacement
of plant, machinery and equipment - 8 proposals; (d) refurbishment of plant, machinery and equipment
- 1 proposal.
For item (a) - Full detailed design and technical specifications exist for the B. de Maud and
Pacigncia proposals (new maintenance buildings and train wash plant). For the other proposal,
construction of Static Electrical Equipment Section at Deodoro, the detailed designs and
technical specification are complete. However, the terms of reference are not yet available.
CBTU state that those should be ready within 2-3 months.
For item (b) - Only outline concepts exist at present. CBTU plan to complete all bid information
details within three months.
For item (c) - Full bid information package existing.
For item (d) - At present only outline concepts exist. CBTU plan to complete all bid information
details within three months.
Procurement of the second hand diesel-electric locomotives
23.   For the procurement of the nine locomotives for RJ, CBTU proposes a diesel-electric
locomotive; 1,600HP; 1,600mm gauge. This will not be financed by the Bank proposed project.
Refurbishment of 80 freinht cars
24.   CBTU has defined the refurbishment of 20 GNR wagons (gondolas). There are 53 GNR wagons
that will be transformed into GT and PE (flat) wagons, plus seven that will have their trucks changed
form 1,600mm to 1,000mm gauge. The Technical Specifications are being prepared by CBTU. For
the indicative monetary values identified in each Project Form compiled, CBTU obtained the costs from
previous comparable projects and other sources. The wagon rehabilitation will be financed by the Bank
proposed project.



ANNEX-3-D
-72 -                               Page5of8
Maintenance Procedures and Organization
25.   CBTU operates six separate network organizations of which Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo
comprise two of these. Each individual network is controlled separately by similar, independent
organizational structures. Each organization is responsible for the day-to-day operations within their
own area. This includes the main operationial functions of Traffic, Maintenance, Finance and Training.
From the organizational charts studied along with detailed discussion with relevant personnel and
through site visits, it would appear that the existing set-ups are adequate for the day-to-day
management of the current operations.
26.   An independent Project Team is located at the Rio de Janeiro Central Headquarters Offices.
This specialist team provides overall support facilities for all six CBTU network areas. This Project
Team were responsible for the initial identification, investigation, compilation and processing of the
individual proposals covered by this Report.
27.   It is planned that the complete set of proposals, namely: (a) 7 separate EMU schemes; (b) 15
separate Workshop/Depot schemes; (c) locomotive proc:urement; (d) refurbishment of freight cars;
when authorized, will be placed or. contract aware more or less simultaneously. Such an overall,
comprehensive plan/program will require extensive, detailed monitor and control. Such control work
will entail the essential project management aspects of (i) cost, (ii) delivery and (iii) quality. This,
coupled with the extensive day-to-da.y general communications associated with contract technical
discussion, will require a dedicated, specialist team throughout the entire project duration (between
2-3 years). Therefore, it is assumed that the CBTU Central Project Team will be augmented
accordingly. This would be by Engineer grade disciplines specialized in the various proposal disciplines.
Costs and Benefits of the Proaram
28.   Each Project Identification form generated covering the Workshop/Depot, Rolling Stock and
Locomotive proposals, contain estimated present day cost indications.
29.   It can be stated that the eventual overall implementation of the proposals will improve
passenger train availability. This should have the effect of increasing passenger volumes and the
associated revenue earnings substantially. Service reliability should also improve thus uplifting the
image of the CBTU system. Other benefits include increased passenger safety, comfort and
acceptance.
30.   From a detailed study of the information provided for each proposal along with discussions held
with associated CBTU personnel and site visits, it would appear that all of the proposals presented for
review are reasonable and justified for the purposes of achieving the proposal performance and
operational targets.
Future Plans/ProDosals
31.   From general observations made during the various Depot/Workshop site visits, it appears that
further similar replacement/refurbishment programs will need to be generated in the future. It is
anticipated that the implementation of any of the current proposals will not be wasted as a result of
any future similar proposals. Similarly, the majority of the current proposals are associated with
projects within Depots/Workshops sited strategically throughout the network. Therefore, in the event
of any future rationalization/centralization of activities the current proposals should not be affected.



ANNEX 3D
- 73 -                                 Page 6 of 8
Table 3D.1:  Conveyance of 630,000 Passengers per day (Current Actual)
TRAIN AVAILABILITY
NUMBER OF EMU*
CORRIDORS         PASSENGER    TRAIN SET                     NilOT AV ILABLE   TOTAL
__________  PER DAY      SERIES      AVAILABLE   QUANTITY       %
Dom Pedro Il/Deodoro       110,600       700                8           5     46
800                2           5     71
900                2           4     87
SUB TOTALS:           10          14     68       24
Dom Pedro Il/Japeri         169800       700                4           4     40
800               14          14     60
900               12          10     46
SUB TOTALS:          30          28     48       68
Dom Pedro Il/Japeri        169,800       700                6           4     40
800               10          12     66
900               18          16     50
SUB TOTALS:           32          32     50       64
Barao do Maud/Gramacho     136,000       500               20           9      31       29
Dom Pedro Il/B. Roxo        97,000      400M               28          11_  28          39
Sub Ramal: Paracambi                    400M                1            1     02
Sub Ramal: Sao Joao                     400M                1            1    60         2
TOTAL              _30__00                        122          96     44       218
Source: CBTU, July 1991
Table 3D.2: Conveyance of 1,200,000 Passengers per day (Future Plans)
TRAIN AVAILABILITY
Dam Pedro IlI/Deodoro     215,600       700               10           2      17
800                6           1     14
900                4           1     20
_  SUB TOTALS:          20          4      17       24
Dom Pedro Il/Santa Cruz   262,000       700                8           1     20
800               22           6     21
900               18           6     22
SUB TOTALS:          46          12    21        58
Dom Pedro lI/Japeri       312,000       700                8           2     20
800               18           4     18
900               28           6     19
SUB TOTALS:           52          12     19       e4
Barao de Maua/            240,000       500               22           7     24
Gramach                                400M                8           0       0
SUB TOTALS:          28           7     20       36
Dom Pedro Il/B. Roxo      180,000      400M               28           9     24        37
Sub Ramal: Paracambi                   400M                2           0      0         2
Sub Ramal: Sao Joao    I    _400M                          2           0      0         2
TOTAL                  1.200.000                         178          44     2022 2
The increase of the fleet is due to the modernization of 4 EMU's of series 400, undertaken by CBTU. Not included
in World Bank submission. Source: CBTU, July 1991



ANN£X 3L
- 74 -                                  Page 7 of i
Table 3D.3: Rio de Janeiro - Workshops/depots Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts
COMPONENT                      CONTRIACT        TYPE      NO. OF       TYPE
VALUE           OF        CONT-        OF
US11,000    CONTRACT   RACTS    BIDDING
Deodoro Workshop, Construction of Static           1,460        Works        01         LCB
Electrical, Equipment Section and General Reform
of the Civil and Utilities                                   _-
Deodoro Workshop,                                   376         Supply       01         LCB
Procurement of New Equipment
Deodoro Workshop, Refurbishment of the Existing      160        Works/       01         LCB
Overhead, Bridges Cranes                                        Supply
Deodoro Workshop, Procurement of a New Above        800         Supply       01         ICB
Floor, Wheel Truning Lathe
Deodoro Workshop, Procurement of a New              400         Supply       01         ICB
Trackmobile for Shunting Operations
Locomocao Workshop,                                1,000        Works        01         LCB
General Reform of the Workshop
Locomocao Workshop,                                 380         Supply      02/03       ICB
Procurement of Equipment - 5 Items            |
Paciencia Depot, Construction of a New Train,      15,500       Works         01        ICB
Maintenance Depot, and
Paciencia Washplant,                                 500
Construction of a New EMU Wash Plant
Jose Dos Reis Workshop,                              350        Works         01        LCB
General Reform of the Civil and Utilities
Jose Dos Reis Workshop, Procurement of Various       330        Supply      02/03       LCB
Items of Hand Tools and Small Equipment
Barao de Maua Depot, Construction of a New
Train, Maintenance Depot, Barao de Maua Depot,     3,000        Works         01        LCB
Construction of a New EMU Wash Plant
ICB - Local Competitive Bidding
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
Source: CBTU, July 1991



ANNEX 3D
- 75 -                                 Page 8of8
Table 3D.4: Workshops
CORRIDOR                  ORMIDOR          CORRIDO      CORRIDOR BARAo
DOM PEDRO II         DOM PEDRO II - SANTA    RDOM            DE MAUA -
DOODORO                    CRUX            PEDRO XO       SARACURUNA
B. ROXO               ____
Deodoro    Locmoopo    Peclinoal    Pecinola  Joa6 Rleb   Baro  de    Ibdo de
Waikahops    Workhops   Workhop.    Sidings    Workshop        Maui       Mau&
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  W o Aahop.  Sldk W
Function      A            C            E           G           I          K           M
Capacity      B            D             F          H          J           L           N
Source: CBTU, July 1991
A.   General overhaul of EMUs, stainless steel, and general overhaul of all train set electric components.
B.   32 berths used for the general overhaul of 61 EMUs, average, per year.
C.   General overhaul of locomotives, passenger cars and wagons. Also auxiliary rolling stock.
D.   Assists with 19 lifting berths.
E.   Inspection of the fleet, passenger cars, up to six-monthly exam level. Also, minor repairs.
F.   Corrective and preventive maintenance of 63 EMUs, monthly and six-monthly inspections. Three pit roads.
G.   External wasii and clean of all EMUs operating on the Dom Pedro II - Deodoro and Dom Pedro II - Santa Cruz
corridors.
H.   Extemal wash - 8 hours - 22 EMUs each 5 days
Internal wash - 8 hours - 15 EMUs each 8 days
Service platforms - 4 off comprising 8 cars each.
I.   Repair and maintenance of all carbon steel bodyshell EMUs.
J.   Assist with the repair and maintenance of 43 EMUs of carbon steel bodyshells.
K.   Inspection of the fleet, passenger cars, up to six-monthly exam level. Also, minor repairs.
L.   Assist with the repair and maintenance of 42 EMUs of carbon steel bodyshells. Two pit roads.
M.  Exterior wash and Interior clean of all EMUs operating in this corridor.
N.   External wash - 8 hours - 22 EMUs each 5 days
Intemal wash - 8 hours - 15 EMUs each 8 days
Service platforms - 2 off comprising 8 cars each.
Table 3D.5: Maintenance Depot, Workshop, and Outstation Maintenance
MAINTENAMCE DEPOT                   WORKSHOP                OUTSTATION MAINTENANC
Sao Diogo                      Deodoro                         D. Pedro II
A. Maia                        Jose Dos Reis                   Barao de Maua
Engo. de Dentro                                                Deodoro
Paciencia 2                                                    Santa Cruz
Barso de Maua                                                  Gramacho
B. Roxo
Japeri
(1) Maintenance Depot and Workshop of the auxiliar rolling stock
(2) Maintenance Depot (Future)
Source: CBTU, July 1991



ANNEX 3E
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
SIGNALLING. TELECOMMUNICATIONS, AND ELECTRIFICATION
Signalling
1.    No signalling modernization program is contempiated in this project, and the present system
with the ongoing upgrading projects is censidered sufficient to achieve the proposed operational
targets. CBTU-RJ is in the process of setting up a program to modernize its installations, in association
with a single supplier, MITSUI (Japanese finance). The same contract includes an ATC system, the
components of which are in storage. They can only be brought into service), gradually, after equipping
track circuits and trains
2.    Present Situation and Ongoing Programs - The trackside equipment, namely track circuits,
points machines and signals remain unchanged, using old (1 930-i940), heavy-duty technology for
which maintenance is difficult. The electro-mechanical interlocking boxes with point and signal levers
are gradually being replaced with remote controlled interlocking boxes. This replacement program will
not be completed for several years, thus preventing the centralized control from being brought fully
into service. Local, lever control of boxes is gradually being centralized to a centralized control center
(CCO at Don Pedro 11). This remote control uses an optical fibre integrated network (see the
telecommunication item).
3.    Recommendations - For several years, CBTU-RJ has been working to make its system
operational and to restore it to the level of 10 years ago. To achieve a higher capacity would require
a massive investment in signalling. Very old trackside equipment (points machines, track circuits,
signalsi will remain in service and their preventive and corrective maintenance requires a costly
electro-mechanical workshop. The ATC system already purchased is, at present, in storage. No
installation program is under consideration. At present, the safety system relies on the driver
complying with wayside signals. This installation should be undertaken as quickly as possible. The
replacement of the old signal boxes will require a few more years, and during that period, the
centralized control point will not be fully operational. In the centralized control point, the route control
functions on the one hand and the train describer and track-train radio link functions on the other, will
be separated. These two complementary functions should have been combined on a single work
station, if necessary, manned by two operators during peak periods. The control of disconnecting
switches and the overhead contact line supply circuit breakers should also be combined on this single
work station.
Telecommunications
4.    Present Situaton and Ongoing Programs - Since 1983, CBTU-RJ has been modernizing its
telecommunication systems by the installation of a high performance, integrated optical fibre and digital
radio telecommunication system which provides great operational reliability through loop operation.
The other systems already in operation or in the process of being installed meet the telecommunication
requirements of the network.
5.    Recommendadons - The networks of copper cables are in very poor condition and hamper the
operation of the various operational systems. It is essential tnat these cables be renewed and be given
protection against theft, in the near future. Uncertainty, as to the financial resources available to the
company, require it to spread out i'cs installations, occasionally leaving equipment in storage that has



ANNEX 3E
- 77 -                             Page 2 of
been purchased due to lack of funds to install it. When this equipment is finally put into service, it ii
already obsolete and is difficult to maintain because often the spare parts are not available.
6.    The proposed train loudspeaker program does not pose any specific technical problems.
Depending on the EMU series, the work to be carried out will vary greatly. Certain series already have
all the train lines required and the internal wiring. Other series will have to be fully outfitted. The
technical specifications have been completed and are ready for international tender. Technical
documentation should include the list of components with the supplier, together with other possible
sources of supply. The required documents should enable CBTU-RJ to have all, or part of the system,
rebuilt by a third party.
7.    Review of Costs and Benefits - The train loudspeaker system  is essential to improve
communications with the passengers. However, its use has not been subject to a great deal of
attention. The driver is the person in contact with the passengers and he should be trained in
communication skills an-i monitored, since incorrect use of the system could produce results contrary
to those desired. Similarly, the maintenance of the loudspeaker system should be monitored. The
desired results are to project a better company image to customers, to make a significant reduction
in vandalism and to improve the regular running of trains by avoiding delayed departures, by ensuring
that doors are closed correctly. The idea of using the system to generate non-operational incorne
(advertising) should not be adopted, since "audio" advertising is perceived badly by passengers. The
anticipated cost of installation, approximately US$4 million, will be recovered with the first train not
destroyed by vandalism.
8.    Staton Clocks - The purpose of this operation is to equip large stations with a master clock
and slave clock on platforms for the use of passengers. Station clocks shall not be connected to a
central master clock. Technical specifications do not pose any problems. The study phase has been
completed. This installation is designed to increase the comfort provided by the system, but it is not
essential. Its cost is relatively low (US$190,000 for 35 stations).
Electrification
9.    Present Situation and Ongoing Programs - The transformer and rectifier sub-stations and the
disconnection switches are very old and unreliable. The current program provides for t- eir replacement
by more modern, remote-controlled equipment. The equipment has already been pur. iased and is, at
present, in storage awaiting installation. The centralized power control point purchased from MITSUI
has been installed and is being commissioned in the D. PEDRO-Il CCO. It will only become fully
operational after the modernization of the substations and disconnection cubicles. The network of
overhead contact lines is of english design with rigid mounts. In general, the concrete posts are in very
poor condition as well as some parts of the contact wires. An improvement program is underway.
The 4.4 kV power supply should be re-rated to take account of the load. The 6.6 lKv workshop supply
should be switched from the present substations to local sources supplied directly by the 13.8 Kv
utility.
10.   Recommendations - The modernization and overhaul programs are totally justified. They should
preferably be scheduled for completion at the same time as the salvage programs, mainly for the
remote-control of substations and disconnecting devices, in order to make the CCO ful'N4 operational
(saving in substation operating personnel and better response time).
11.   Operations Provided for by the Program - Electrification of the single track between CAMPOS
ELISEOS and SARACURUNA. Purpose of the operation: the present Bargo de MAUA-GRAMACHO line
is to be extended in a sinrjle track to SARACURUNA, an important center of local travel. The track is
already laid and electrified as far as CAMPOS ELISEOS. This program presents no specific technical



ANNEX 31
- 78 -                             Page 3 of '
problems and the technical specifications are complete and open for tender. The study phase has beei
completed and preceded by an economic evaluation which justifies the electrification extension.
Maintenance
12.   Present Overall Structure - Chart 3E.1 illustrates the present overall maintenance structure
(Signalling, Telecommunications, Electrification) for CBTU-RJ. The breakdown according LO lines it
satisfactory. The pyramid structure comprises at lease 1 level too many, probably management leve
IlIl (and perhaps the core level). The scattering of maintenance teams leads to high costs, insofar as
building, labor, spares, storage and tools are concerned. !n addition, this scattering of personnel makes
efficient personnel and resource management impossible. Assignment according to line and specialty
would greatly improve the situation. This maintenance team should be located at the mid-point of the
line to reduce travelling time to a minimum. Table 1 does not take into account workshops and
laboratories attached to other departments. In order to make responsibilities clear, the relationship
between the maintenance department and workshops and laboratories should be put on a detailed,
formal basis. The number of maintenance personnel should be rev.ewed on the basis of a preventive
maintenance program, an assessment of the corrective maintenance work-load (based on fault
statistics from previous years) and permanent manpower requirements. No maintenance work is
sub-contracted, owing to the irregularity of resources and the lack of specialized companies on the
market. Most equipment uses old, electro-magnetic technology which, in view of the lack of spare,
results in very rudimentary maintenance.
13.   Signalling - Chart 3E.2 illustrates the scattering of maintenance teams localization: 30 teams
with approximately 250 employees for approximately 150km of track (equivalent to 1,7 employee/km
of track). Operating methods both in the field and in the workshop appear to be basic and the concept
of inspection by a third party is unknown. However, this is essential for railway safety equipment.
14.   Telecommunications - The laboratories appear to have little in the way of advanced testing
equipment. In general, the advent of equipment fitted with large scale integration components has
resulted in the acquisition of universal, automatic test benches. The integrated, optical fiber, digital
radio telecommunication system, purchased in 1982, included A limited number of spares. To ensure
a reasonable operating life of this system, a study of the stock Oi spares required for 10 years, based
on the experience acquired, should be carried out and the spares supplied immediately.
15.   Electrification - The modification of substations and disconnecting devices for remotely
controlled operation should be carried out quickly to generate savings in the permanent staff required
for their operation.



STU - RJ MAINTENANCE STRUCTURE
Present StrncGtre
Etrac: Signalling. Teleconunuicalions, Elechlificarion
w_                       .                 ~~~~~~~~FMC bSTAlltEl  MANFME
4b&#.U
rc T                                ,      .             ..                                              c
mu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wmn
Ub&*U               ~~~~~~4k$    ftt         3          3kgo1      3ho.6    2b 1024 
%I
U  I       2   4    SIII1                                    2        I   I     I  I  I
mU,
m Ii .



- 80 -                                                   ANNEX 3E
Page 5 of 5
*dm                  - 591   _J                   Signalifn Ilmantenance                                               Chart 3E.2
km tll0 s°Oal                                                             Ine   Itsonnel                     >sa     4      p     ,ab
km 65.098                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~km 70.004
Ibn   7.es                                                                                 s                            4V.000
TAWmS& Niom                                                                                                              km 60.000
km=.63                                                                                                       6  m1.479
Intomh   kmn 47.3496
km46.32 a      raonD MW
k        t 41 . k48
AugtSot Weom.abs                                      ursg
km39.0600 
lbN9~~~~~~ Jif                                                                                rP4wFa
km 35.063                                                k   4                             n  .2
Senedor Camard
km 33.229                 Com' dedo SAnib
8M .     48    88 km3k                                                                       /3.7
bn adr Mi/gu                                                                                               oe
km 29.245         Eng. Pasace    *   n~N     Souw v   A.4                    M. Cat
ugherAIn    km2 do S    *v  km n 35.349                                      km512
kmd25.160                       Anldl  km952          3354   4S. i       m2.9
km 29.26a bn do A                                 6.   kmob  04
bun 29248                                 S E~'t .J - Mew                   25.3 t 90
km 20.50                             ee. I8
2z39 N   ess?9t2 .|4 No
Sampelo     liSt* ~~~ do   o k8               2 km  .54
bI    I   J. 22. 0i                                                2111
More92" Ramo                                                           ea      has tlon
PlrdedeVbo                                                                       N bn 101u2 td.meybnu14 550
bp      na      1     3      2      I*w eO° [6,d hn 13 ne7
k n tILMt              km 13C 0 jI       V       C       b   Z
llbbn IeA         o^  P.n 121940                                          -tl n I2 09
bn r0 0laft   ki 14n 1032                     ,,                   - lun 14.55tz0                            U9t
,It    E           bitf A7et jn                           Fb  - kbn  13.1
8  FrtX~~~~k  I-V                      A br2t*070    S v cula  in IO78l
kz6)m i/.07     
EDgft tlo an          <5   (5          a/                                                     B            
bnOXO       **  ~~~A de1|    noeiA/]]   ijf  
Frwwt   X3|    INS 1.347                  e rgX    !e 0X                 i
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M - W T"4.tl                                 4
km~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           NrUSO               em_W |4
km 2.=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



AUN-EXIE
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
1.   The proposed project is scheduled to be implemented over a five year period and monitored
agains. a targeted time-schedule, starting in January 1994 and ending December 31, 1997 (CBTU-RJ,
Annex 3G), and against the operatioial and financial performance targets shown in paragraphs 3.22
of the text. With regard to item A (permanent way for the rehabilitation of track infra/superstructure)
detailed engineering has been completed and bids are expected to be called during late 1993, and
contracts for the first lots for infrastructure works would be awarded starting at the beginning of 1994.
The procurement of materials required for track superstructure works has been divided into subgroups;
the bidding process is scheduled to start during the last part of 1993, and the first contracts are to be
awarded before July 1994. Works included in item B, (for the rehabilitation and modernization of
stations) are expected to start in the last part of 1993, with completion date towards the end of 1997.
Concerning the Systems component shown as item C (telecommunications and electrification), tenders
would be called during the last quarter of 1994, and contracts are expected to be awarded during the
first quarter of 1994. In regard to Item D, (rolling stock) works would commence in December 1994
and be completed during 1997. It is estimated that Item E (works for the construction/rehabilitation
of workshops and purchase of equipment) would start in the last part of 1993 and be finished by July
1997. The development and implementation of the various programs, studies and training under item
F - (Institutional Deveiopment) - would start during the second semester of 1993 and be completed
by end 1997. Table 3F. 1 shows the details of the Procurement Schedule for major contracts of items
to be financed under the loan.
2.   The project would be monitored through quarterly progress reports to be forwarded to the Bank
not later than one month after the end of each quarter, and through at least two meetings per year
between CBTU's management and the Bank. CBTU would submit quarterly progress reports in a
format satisfactory to the Bank, to provide the following information.
A.   Civil and Mechanical Works
(a)  detailed computerized list of the main components, i.e., civil works, including
rehabilitation of permanent way infra/superstructure, track renewal and construction;
stations, workshops; and installation of electric, and telecommunication systems;
rehabilitation/modernization of EMU's, wagons and track machinery, indicating contract
information and status of implementation in physical and financial terms;
(b)  summary tables indicating physical and financial progress versus targets, and expenditure
and loan disbursement status;
(c)  brief description of problems encountered and corrective actions taken or proposed.
B. Materials and Eauioment
(a)  detailed computerized list of materials and equipment to be procured, i.e., rails, sleepers,
fastenings, ballast, tumouts, telecommunications and electric equipment, track and
workshop machinery, indicating the several actions involved in the procurement process
up to contract signature and delivery of goods and status of implementation in physical
and financial terms. This list would also indicate the projected dates for each action
against actual performance;



A-NNE-X
- 82 -                               Page 2 c
(b)  summary tables indicating physical and financial progress versus targets and expendit
and loan disbursement status;
(c)   brief description of problems encountered and actions taken or proposed.
C. Tech  I  Assistance
(a)   assessment of the progress made under each component of the technical assistar
program against agreed schedules and targets; the identification of the problei
encountered and recommendations for remedial actions; and
(b)  summary of consultants progress reports and contract information including expenditul
and disbursements.
D. Trainina of Personnel
(a)   a summary of the progress made under each component of the training program again
agreed schedules and targets, the Identification of the problems encountered, ai
recommendations for remedial actions;
(b)   updated timetables for training courses, seminars and other activities with an assessme
of progress against set targets; and
(c)  summary of the consultants progress reports, and contract information includir
expenditures and disbursements.
E. Traffic and Oerational Performance
(a)   an assessment of traffic evolution and a summary of operating statistics;
(b)   brief description of problems encountered and actions taken or proposed.
F. Financial Matters
(a)   working ratio cumulative from beginning of year;
(b)  salaries and wages as a % of working costs;
(c)   average train fare;
(d)   paying passengers per day;
3.   In addition, each quarterly report should contain: (a) a summary table indicating, item by item
the appraisal estimates of costs versus expenditures and loan disbursements as at the end of thi
reporting period in accordance with the Project Accounts, and the balance of project loan if
accordance with the respective loan categories; and (b) quarterly movements and the balance of thE
Revolving Fund Account and that of the Special Account; and (c) a summary of loan covenants anc
their status of compliance.
4.   In order to monitor the progress of project objectives and provide for extensive dialogue betweer
representatives of CBTU and the Bank, at least two meetings per year would be held:



ANNEX 3F
- 83 -                               Page 3 of 5
(a)   at the first quarter of each year, the progress made during the previous year would be
reviewed with regard to:
- physical and financial status of CBTU's decentralization project versus agreed targets,
including all components financed under the project;
- traffic and operations development;
- review of the impact of institutional reforms, and the status of the action programs;
(b)   during the third quarter of each year, the primary focus would be upon the next year's
program with a review of:
- CBTU's budget, and rehabilitation program, considering the level of overall investments
and priorities of the various components;
- evaluation criteria used for investment decisions;
-  status of loan covenants.
5.   In addition to the foregoing, CBTU would forward to the Bank the following specific reports by
the dates indicated below:
(a)  annual operating and investment budgets including financing plans - by November 10 of
each year;
(b)   proposed normalization agreement to be included in the next year's budget - by
September 30 of each year;
{c)   pluriannual plans for CBTU-RJ by December 31 of each project year.
(d}  corporate plan - by June 30, 1994; and
(e)   comparison of revenues working costs plu3 depreciation and interest for CBTU-RJ by
December 31 of each project year.



Table 3F.i: Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts 1/
C ontract I            I         I                              I
Component                 Value      Type of    No. of  Type of  Docunents Bids Prop Contract  Delivery  Initiation
(USS'000) I Contract I Contracts Bidding    Readv      Invited  Signature of Goods2/1 of Works
A. Civil Works
1. Rehab. of Track Superstructure        2,6sa    Works                                   ___  ____ 7f92  1192|129
- Deodoro-Sta. Cruz              1      2.6501  Works   I II    LCDs  1   6(92    17192  1  11/92   ______                12Z192
- D.Pedroll-B.Roxo               j      2.534   Works   I   1         LC J  6I92    1  7192  1  11/92    _              1 12f92
- Cavalcante-B.Roxo                     2.266   Works         1       LCB        792    1   /92  1  12192              1  1193
-D.Pedro Il-Deodoro                     23191   Works      _          LCB  J    7/92        8/92  1  12192             i   1/93
2. Track Renewal                                                      ____
-Manguera-Cavalcante                    15,120   Works     I          ICB        1f93       2/94     8/94    __           9/94
3.Rehabildation/Modernization Stations                                    _
- Lot 1                                 13,078   Works        I       ICe        3/92       9/92     2/93                 3f93
- Lot 2                                 10,803   Works     1          ICB      6/92        10/92     2/93             1    /93
- Lot 3                                23J26   Works          I       ICa       7/92       3193      11/93            j12t93
- Lot 4                          I      1,99    Works         1       ICB       10192       3f93  1 11/93                 12193
4. Womkshops
- Paciencia                             14.353    Works     I I    I  ICB  I   2193    ]  4193  1 12/93  1             1   1/94
- B. de Maua _                          3.3631  Works  I   1    I LCD  1   6/92    I  7f92  1 10f92  1                 1  11192
B. materials
- Tunber Sleepers                       10,175   Supply  I  1-2   |  ICB  1   6/92    |  7192  |  9/92  1  11f92  |
- Concrete Sleepers                     7.180   SUPPIV       1 -2   1  ICB  [    6/92   1  7192  1  9192       11192
-Rals                                   5.106   Supph         1    1  ICB  1    7/92    1  8192  | 10192        12(92  1
-Fastenings&fitins411   Suppl                               4-6   1 ICB          792        892 _    10192  1  12192
C. Equipment                    ___        ___
-WorkshopMachinery                1     2.6261  SuDpp    I  1-2   1  ICB  i   6192    1  992       12192  1  1f93   1
D. Mechanica Workss
-AudiD System EMU's              T      4.338 Spworks  1              ICB       7/92        8/92     1 2/92               1/93
-Bolfing Stok Rehab:                                     I                     
- Series_400_ _ _                      3,505W  S Jworks I 1          ICB        9iB2      10192     7193                 8/93
- Seres500_                      1     6,696 Supptworks I 1          ICB        9/92      10/92     7193                 8t93
- Series 800                    1     43.431 SuppJworks      I 1     ICB       992       10921  7f93                     8f93                  n
- Series 900                    |    33.2071 SuppJwrk6     1        CB|   9f92    | 10f92 _  7193  |                    8f93                o
E. Tech. Assince                  |    1768431 Serices    Several Other 31   8192    1 9192    1 0O/92                  11/92
1/of items to be finaned under the Bank Loan
2t staft of delvery
3/ BanKs Guidelines br Selecton of Consultarns
4/ Consortums for Tur n-Key assignments



-85-                                                ANNEX 
Page 5 of
Table 3F.2: Implem.ntlon Sc edule Istimatd Annual Contrulc and Other Payments
(US$ Mllilon oquivalent)
PROJ                                                        MROJECT YEAR                      TOTAL  REMARKI
I  1002    10 093    1 00"4    10   100o 11t90e   PAYME
Loan Timing
Signature/Efe.JCbse            10cobitr1002 I Nov30   1                                   O0c 31
A. Civil Works and Syxt_mt.
- Rehab. Track Supw inlra/ .
Emergency:                                    2.746      2.060       _          _          _        4.811      LC8
DOodoro-Sta. Cnrz
Deodoro-JapsrI
D.Pedro-8.Roxo
B.Maua-Gramacho
Deforred Maintenace:                            -        1.360      4.994     1.662                            Ic- .01    -CB
D.Pedro-Deodoro
Dcodoro-Sta.Cnr
Dcodoro-Japcri
B.Maus-Gramacho
Cavalcante-B.Roxo                            0.427      1.103     0.738        -          _        2.2e6     LCB
Renewal:
Mangueira-Cavalcante                           -         -        3.233   0 .861        5.028     15.120     ICa
Constructlon:
Campos Ellseos-Sracuruna                     0.334      1.200       -          -          -        1.540     LCD
- Stations
Lot 1                                         -        7.519     4.973      0.58s        -       13.078    ICa
Lot 2                                         -        4.834      3.857      1.s88     0.524   -10.803      lCB=
Lot 3                                         -        8.122     10.945     3.177       1.082    23.326     ICe
Lot 4                                         -         _         2.056     5.826       4.111    11.993     lCB
- Systems
Electrilication                              0.287      1.045      0.171       -          -        1.503     LCB
Telecommunications                          t1021       1.185      2.132                  -        4.338      LCS
- Workshops                                                                                  ________
Rehabilkation                                1 1.582    1.636             -               -        3.218      LCB
Construction:
Paciencia                                      -        1.032      4.398     5.480      2.843     14.353     IC8
B. de Maua                                   2.457      0.900       --                    -        3.383     LCB
B. Materials
Timberf lse"era                                -        3.995      3.109     3.070        -       10.175     ICe
Concrete sl epers                              -         -         2.304     2.393      2.483      7.180      iCa
RaiIsTR-57                                   0.712      0.979      1.108     1.849      0.548      8.106      ICa
Fastanings/ittings                           0.687      1.419      2.213     2.227      0.795      7.411      ICB
Ballast                                      0A21       0.435      0.587     0.587      0.244    * 2.254     LCB
Turnouts                                                0.098      0.203     0.211      0.109      0.621      ICa
Ins, fishplates              I            I                        0.047     0.049      0.068      0.163     LCB
C. Equipmont
Rehab. of tracklmachinrys    
|Ught equiP.I                                                        
Lot 1                                     0.087      0.012        - _        .                  0.079      LCB
Lot 2                                     0.204      0.038        -          -          -       0.242      LCD
Lot 3                                     0.230      0.041   j         _     _                  0.271      LCB
HOsa  s ulD                                                                  
Lot 1                                     0.800      0.136                                                 US -    0.945  LJ.B
Lot 2                                     0.625      0.105        -          _          -       0.730      LJS
Lot 3                                     0.509      0.080        -          _          -       0.595      ICa
Lot 4                                      1.11t     0.185             -                -       1.300      lce
Locomotives                                    -        2.514     3.920                            0 -  6.434  ICa
RchabiltatUono ofwagon$                      0.908      1.408       -          -          -        2.310     LCB
Workshop equiP nent                                            i                     i
Ught *qulp.                                  0.384      0.507       _          -          -        0.981      lCB
Hsav equlp.                                  0.640      0.099  1         _     _                   1.640      lCB
RehatrillalUon               I0.180                      _          _-    -                       1 0.10      LCB
0. Mechanical Works
EMU's Scrb 400            _                  1.505      2.000       -          -          -    I 3.505        LCB
EMUs Seri, 500                               30 1O  3.696  r    -                               1 6.696       ICa
EMU'c Serfe 800                              7.680   j t7.i82   1 13.609     4.500        -    j 43.431      'CB
EMUs SerSe 000               15.000                     6 0.000   10.007     6 8.304  |  5.89 0   33.207     ICB
E. Technical Aseltanc
Supewhion                                 I  0.660   I  t1.616i 1  1.719   I  1.397   1  0.644   1  .033
T Andetutos                                11.317   |  8.939       1.1198   |  0.220   1  0.137   | 11.811  I
F. Training
Travel and expenses          L_I_-_I_                   0.3501  0.038          -          -        0.388
Consulotans|f                                            .5        .4                               .O-  
TOTALS                1            I5.6092  180.26  I7.554            46.000      24.400   271.926
Consultants   i             I_I_(18.900) 1______        0.483      0.?04  i   42 .124)    I      t 02.504)0
(Dank-Plnned)           ______   115.9000)  (41.263) 1 33.786) 123.124) 111.371)  1128.464)1



BRAZIL
Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
Prolect Implementation Schedule
Year 1            Year 2            Year 3             Year 4            Year 5
_            IV   III   IIIIV    I II  III  IV I _               III  IV   I  li   III  IV
A. PERMANENT WAY                          _    _    t                                                                _  T ! 
-Pamdl  of bidding documn t_
. BWding~iin                                                          ±        ~      
- supply                                                     *|    
2. Works
2.1 Superstucture rehabilitaton
(EPmegncy)digocmn
- DDOrS. Cruz Corrldr
- Preparation of bidding documents
- DDOPJaed  Corrldor                                                                                               i
Prepaon of biddig documenXt
Works
-D. P - o 11-1^  F  Corrldof                                                                                       la
-Preparation of bUidng docLuments
-9. Maua-Saracuruna Corridor                                _
*Prepraton of bidd   documents l
- Bidding 
.Works                                 I
2.2 Supertucture rehablitation                                                                                       i
(Del. LMaWntencne)
- D. Pedro Il-Deodoro Corridor
Preparation of bidding documents
Bildding                                                               
odoSTa. Cruz Corridor                                                              m -
Preparation of bdi  documents                                                                                   ii
- DeodoroJaperi Corridor                                                                                            Ii                          Mi
- PBpran of bid  documents        |     |
Bidding                                                                                                                                       A                    



BRAZIL
Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentrailization ProJect
Prolect Implementation Schedule
Year I            Year2             Year  3           Year4             Year5
- D. PedmT.TRoxoCon7 _ _ _IV I N                          - - -   IV   I   II  III  IV          I I   I   III  IV  I   II  [il  IV
-Preparaon of biddng documerds
-Bldding          o     
-B. Maua-Satcurur Conkor                                                   
-Preparaton of bin doumetns t
- idolngT_  
- Works1
2.3 InfrWSuperslucture Rehablitation                            I
- D. Pedcro IIB. Roxo Corfidor
languelra-Cavacanti)
- Preparaton of bidding documents                                      _
2.4 Track Cor--s-on                                                                                            -
* B. Maua-Saracunr .:!                                                                                                                        OD
- P|rs. Of bidng docwons_                                            I                           l            I
* Bidding 
3. Rehabilitatlon of Equipment
- Preparation of biddng documents                       -      i
supply
4. SupervIsion
- Preparation of TOiTs & Short List
- Selection
. woft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I -   
B. STATIONS                  -
1. ModemizationConstruction           j
1.1 Lot 1
- Preparation of bidding documents            _
- Works                                                             -   - i       -   -   -                               a                 Ci
1.2 Lot 2
- Preparmrdon of bkiding documents



BRAZIL
Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
Project Implementation Schedule
Year 1            Year 2             Year 3            Year 4             Year 5
iII  III  IV   IlII  II lIV    I  11   III  IV  I~l  1IIIIV I 1 II
1.3 Lot 3         I                         __i _-Iv I   I   III V,,
Predaraton of bidding documents                                                   I                    I
-*Works
- Preparaton of bidding documents                                                J |
- Bidding
-Works  D                                                                                                          - i -  ..   -
2. Engineering Desigris                                                                               T     
- Lot 1I
- Preparation of specs. & short list                        I                           i
- Selection                          COn                    i                  I i                        I tl
- Design D
- Preparation of specs. & short list      _
- SelectonI 
-Design                                   _                 I
- Lot 3                                                      1co
- Preparaion of specs. &short Ost 
- SelectonII
- Desgn
* Lot 4
-Preparation of specs. & short lis
- Desgn
3. SUPERVISION
- Lot I
- Preparation of TOrs. & short Ist docus.
-Selection
- Lot 2                                                                                            I
- Preparation of TORWs & short list docus.        I.
- Selection                                                 I-
- Works                                                            a,q      -Z 
- Lot 3      ofTRssotM..dcs                                                 
- Preparation ofTO' & hI lsIocs                                                                                                                      
- Selection~



ANNEX 3G
89                       Page 4 of 6
-2= 
C                 __.. _ . _..            .    .   .
.2_ 
g   - __ .., -_
ii  _-2__ t_
£                    I              __  __1------      _     __ 
I~~           o ______I                               S 
i-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ La ~
L    ~~cjS                          ~     Cc S
l |   F t   tt t s   , , ,   , 31  ; 4 0  gC  G     |
_  ,,  , .   _ U                               _
I.



BRAZIL
Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan lransport Decentralization Project
Project Implementation Schedule
tear l            Year 2            Year 3             Year 4            Year 5
2 Construciin                             I   IIIIIIV II_  _              IV    I _      II  1V I        | 1 II  IV   I       I
Preparatlon of Bidding Documents                                                                         L
-Bidding_                                         _
-Works
- B. Maua
- Preparation of 3iddin Documents
E. I  kOUINg SOK_
Prqrioinct   of INr; Equ.pment
- Prepamtion of BidiWn Documents
E.ROLLING STOCK
-Reha1b11itation of EMLFs
- Seie 400
* Preparaton of Bidding Documents
Bidking
- Works
- Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding  4_l_   
- WorkS
- Serie 800
Preparation of Biding Documents
- Bidding
-Works                                                              -      _        -   -  -s
- Wago R b
- Preparation of Bidding Documentsj
- Bidng
- Works



BRAZIL
Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
Project Implementation Schedule
Year I           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5
I   II  II  I   V  ' '    ' I II II  IV  I  II  III  IV  I  II  III  IV  It  ,,  III  IV
- Purchase of Locomotives
- Preparation of Bidding Documets a
- Bidding                                                                                                          I
-Supply                                                                                               I          I
- Supervision                                                                                      I             I
- Preparation of TOR's & Short Ust
- Selection-                                                                      -Ij-                 .    -i
* Works
F. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Prepamaon of TOFWrs & Short Uist
- Selection                                                                         E       i~
__ _Works_                                      F        I        i
I~~______ .1~~--. 



ANNEX 4A
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN -RANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
URBAN TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES AND HOLISEHOLD INCOME
1.    Although the National Household Survey (PNAD) which is carried out every year by IBGE provides
recent data on income and other household features (1989), equivalent data on household income are not
periodically available. The last data allowing a consistent analysis of household income and expenses are
for the period from 1987-88 and come from the Family Budget Survey (POF). The latter was also done by
IBGE, to update the household consumption baskets on the basis of which Brazilian consumer price indexes
are calculated.
2.    Table 4A-1 shows some significant variables related to household income and expenses for the Rio
de Janeiro metropolitan region. The regressive features of urban transportation costs are immediately
apparent, since the share of household income spent in urban transportation decreases as income goes up.
It is interesting to note that in Sao Paulo, where most of the bus system is publicly run, the degree of
regressivity is higher than in Rio, where most of it is private. It must be pointed out that in the lower income
brackets, basic expenses (excluding urban transportation) exceed average household income by 3% in RJMR.
That is, lower income households spend more in food, housing, clothing, health care and education than their
declared monetary earnings. In the next bracket, the extent to which household income is committed to
those basic consumption items is also high: for example reaching 78% in SP. If urban transportation
expenses are added to the other 'basic" expenses, almost all household income is used up, even in the 2
to 5 minimum wage (MW) bracket catagory.
3.    For 1991 there is no data available on household expenses, therefore, it was necessary to simulate
the burden of urban transportation costs on the budget of poor households. Table 4A-2 shows the results
of a simple exercise designed to answer this question. The reference month is May 1991, and the minimum
wage, exchange rate, and bus fares are those prevailing at that time. Households are assumed to have the
same size, by income bracket, as shown in the 1987/88 POF. Average household income is assumed to
keep the same relation with the bracket limits as in 1987/88. Household expenses ;n urban transportation
are estimated bus-rail trips, and ii is assumed that 2 rides per day are made in the 22 working days of the
month, and that a coefficient equal to 0.8 is applied to account for the fact that not all household members
make trips.
4.    As shown in the tables urban transportation expenses as a percentage of household income show
an increase between 1987/83 and 1991. It is a clear result of the recent faster increase !n bus fares in
relation to the minimum wage. The same exe,cise can be done to evaluate the impact on low-income
household budgets of the proposed rail rates (UIS$0.25) after CBTU decentralization in RJMR. An additional
assumption has to be made: the minimum wage. by the time decentralization is completed, will reach the
US$100.00 level. This level for the minimum wage has been repeatedly announced by the government as
one of its major social targets. Actually, if one looks at the recent minimum wage increase, from US$49.43
in October 1987 to US$84.57 in May 1991, this assumption seems very plausible.
5.    Table 4A-3 shows that, given the above mentioned assumptions, the proposed rail fares will take
up about 16% of average income in RJ in the lowest income bracket, which means a substantial increase
in relation to the situation portrayed in Table 2. For the households earning between 2 and 5 minimum
wages, the increase in comparison to the current situation is smaller. Combined rides in the case of RJ
cause an increase of about 10 percentage points (23% to 33%). As shown in the projection in 4A.3,
affordability of urban transport under the proposed tariff regime (and reasonable assumption about the level
of the minimum wage) does not change significantly from the situation as of May 1991. However, reduction
of travel time will actually decrease the generalized cost to the user, i.e. increase the user's welfare and
therby make the system more affordable.



-93-
ANNEX 4A
BRAZIL                                    Page 2 of 2
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOUTAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PRA JECT
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOUTAN REGION
HOUSEHOLD INCOME, TARIFFS AND AFFORDABIUTY
Table 4A.1: AVERAGE HOUSEHOLD INCOME AND EXPENSES, BY INCOME BRACKETS - 1087/88 (1)
§  Income      NNumbor      Avragol       AvOrage :    Aveirae: Avrage Urban               . asl
Bracketa             of  Holisou ildi            l Ia.Ic -.aTpoltatl.a                   Ex0001.*   . 0na8
uHoUseholdsaa   4ncomo       EX0*n.e  fiose (2)            - Ex     c I   % of _nm e
Uo to 2        292,863         69.59         99.64         71.54             6.74          102.8%           O.; %
2     to 5     782.190       185.34        203.09         143.71           14.12           77.5%           7..%
_Mor than 5      1,785,826     1,051.69        854.80        441.70            24.83           42.0%_ 24%
Total        2,860,879       714.28        599.31        322.33            20.05           45.1%           2.8%
Source: IBGE, Pesqulsa do Orcamentos Familiares - 1987/88. Rio de Janefro, 1991.
Notes: MW: Minimum wage In October 1987 = CzS 2,640.00 = US$ 49.43.
(1) Averago income and expenses: values in USS  Total income and expens e: values In USS millions.  Baso period: October1987.
(2) Basic expenses (excluding urban transportation) = food, housing, clothing, heaith car, end education
Table 4A.2: AVERAGE HOUSEHOLD INCOME AND EXPENSES. BY INCOME BRACKETS - SIMULATION FOR MAY 1901
Income                    Average  I                     rban Transpotfiton Expenses (2) ,ombined
Bracketv   Average    Household                                           k                                       Rid.i 8a!c-
in MInimu'm   Houctsehold  Income (1)           Bus Riders                     Ri  lo*rd1Epne
_MW       Size          UUSS)    I %m  Incom                       US$)  |      #  f income                   & . Icome
Upto2              2.51       119.071        17.811        15.0% I           9.801           8.2%1         232%        1260%
2to5               3.7       317.09         25.71          8.1%            14.14            4.6%          126%         90.1%
More than 5          3.6      1,799.33         25.05          1.4%            13.781           08%           22%1         44.2%
Source: IBGE
Notes: (1) EsUmated assuming that average Income keeps the same relation with bracket limits as In 1987/88.
(2) Estimated asuming 2 rides per day In the 22 working days of a month per person, a coefficientequalto 0.8 to accountfor
not all household mombers travelling. Combined rides ae bus-rail connected trips.
Tab M4A.3: AFFORDABIUTY OF PROPOSED RAIL RATES FOR LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLDS - SIMULATION FOR i995
Income                    Avorage                       Urban Transporitton Exponsts (2)         
Bracketa     Average     Houshold I            _-_-__
MIn lZnimum    fousehold l Indome (1)         B  Riders S                    R1   R de r.- a        Ombined1  i
Wage  MW)        Siize       fUS$)         (Ul %f .    of Ineome I  . (US)$.   1            n.%016o!om: 'FotIncome
Up to 2            2.51       140.791        24.741        17.6%1           22.28 I         1 5.8%         33A%
2 to 5             3.71      374.951        35.711         9.5%            32.141           8.6%1         18.1%
Source: IBGE
Notes: (1) Estimated assuming that average income keeps the same with bracket limits as In 1987/88, and thatthe minimum wage vAIll reach U1SS 100 by 1993
(2) See Table 5.2. in SAR text.
(3) The estimated bus fare In RJ is US$ 0.23, and In SP Is USS 0.58.



ANNEX 4E
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
THE IMPACT OF DECENTRALIZATION OF THE CBTU ON STATE FINANCES
Summary
1.    The financial capacity of the State oF Rio de Janeiro (RJ) to assume the responsibility of the
CBTU-RJ system has been assessed considering the past performance of the State's finances and the
projected needs of operating and capital subsidies. CBTU-RJ has shown a weak financial performance
in the last 5 years, but in 1991 the situation registered a marked improvement. At the State level, the
outlook is largely positive. After a period of financial difficulties (1987-91), RJ (see Annex 5B) has
benefitted from three positive factors: {i) a new administration which was able to undergo a strict
program of financial adjustment; (ii) the effects of the new national Constitution which has increased
the participation of the States in tax revenues; and (iii) the reschedul,ng of the State's debt with the
central government which has reduced substantially the debt service for the next 5 years.
2.    These circumstances justify the confidence that the authorities have shown in terms of being
able to assume, comfortably the financial responsibilities associated with the project. In fact, the
normalization costs are projected to represent no more than 3% of the State recurrent revenues in the
next 10 years. Under unfavorable circumstances -- revenues stagnating in real terms -- normalization
costs could reach at the most 4% of State revenues.
An Overview of State Finances in Rio de Janeiro
3.    In the last two years, the State's current revelues have averaged US$4.1 billion (at 1991
prices) and expenditures US$5 billion (current, US$4.2 billion; capital $0.8 billion) as shown in Table
43-1. Per capita own-revenues have been growing over the last 6 years, and reached US$324 in
1990.
Recourse to credit has declined in the last foLur years -- the credit/total revenue ratio fell from 27.6%
in 1987 to 9.7% in 1990. Total borrowing (difference between own revenues and total expenditures)
has declined but in 1991 was still at about 11 % of revenues.
4.    In 1991, capital expenditures totaled US$730 million, or 12.9% of total expenditures. Per
capita capital expenditures has been around US$52 in the last four years. Half of the expenditures are
allocated to investment, half are transfers to municipalities and State agencies. It should oe noted
that, on average, RJ spends roughly the same amount on debt service it invests annually.
5.    The State of Rio's finances have been, in general poor. Current revenues have been barely
sufficient to finance current expenditures. Capital expenditures, including both investments and debt
amortization, have been financed by borrowed resources, short-run loans, supplier's credits and,
frequently, by accumulation of payment arrears. Labor costs are high (about 50% of current
expenditures). In 1990, out of the US$3 billion in current transfers, US$758 million corresponded to
"other transfers" and US$735 million to intra-govemmental transfers, most of that corresponding to
labor costs with personnel of the indirect administration (State companies and foundations), retired civil
servants and pensioners. It is estimated that in 1990, labor expenditures amounted to US$2.5 billion
or to 57% of net revenues.



- 95 -
ANNEX 4B
Page 2 of 4
6.    RJ's financial situation worsenad towards the end of 1990, mostly because of the economic
recession and its impact on declining tax revenues. In March 1991, when the new State administration
took office, more than 90% of revenues were being spent on payroll. No money was left to finance
the purchase of goods and services, much less the debt service. This severe short-term crisis was
overcome in 1991, as the overall economic situation of the country improved and the new State
administration initiated a serious internal adjustment. Nevertheless, a solution for RJ's structural
problems will take longer to materialize.
Expenditures on Urban Trnsoortationl
7.    The State annual expenditures on transportation (not only urban) averaged US$359 million in
the past decade, or 8% of its tota! expenditure. Information on urban transportation expenditures is
incomplete. In Rio, the State runs the Metro, the ferry lines across the Guanabara Bay (CONERJ), and
a bus company (CTC). Thus, in 1989, of the US$370 mi;lion spent by RJ in transportation, US$192
million corresponded to operating and capital subsidies to the urban transport companies, with US$95
million (or about 50%) for the Metro alonie. In that year, the Metro's fare-box revenue amounted to
only US$20.5 million.
Financial Impact of Decentralization on State and Municioal Governments
8.    The CBTU-RJ rail L;stern has been an onerous burden having received, in 1990, US$175
million of operating subsidies from the federal government. With the rehabilitation project operating
subsidies will still be reeded, but in much lower amounts, due to the increase in own-revenue
generation through tariff increases and reduced operating costs. By 1996, the number of transported
passengers is estimated to increase from 630 thousand/day to 1.2 million/day; fares are targeted to
double from the annual average of US$0.12 to US$0.25; and productivity is expected to improve.
Even so, operating subsidies will be needed in the amount of US$128 million in 1993, declining to
US$95 million by project completion in 1996.
9.    In 1989 RJ spent US$104 million in recurrent subsidies to urban transportation-- US$84 million
of which with the Metro - or 25% of the overall expenditure in transportation. At present the State
has been relieved from the future financial responsibility of Metro (now to be under the Municipality
of Rio starting January 1, 1994) and this will create some margin to finance the subsidies to CBTU.
That is, adding the subsidies that CBTU needs and the savings ($84 million) obtained by not having
the responsibility for the Metro, one obtains an additional expenditure of $33 million in the first year
of the project declining to $1 1 million by the last year project, that is from 7% to is 2% of the
transport expenditures. The total subsidy would fall from 28% of the total expenditure to 21 %.
10.   CBTU-RJ estimated replacement costs are forecast at US$78 million a year. Unlike the
operating subsidies, this replacement ir.vestment represents an average long-run projection. Its impact
on RJ's finance would be very high. In the 1987-89 period, RJ's capital transfers to its three urban
passenger transport companies amounted to US$100 million a year, or 14% of the total investment
made by the State in all sectors. If RJ were to become responsible for financing the annual
replacement investment of the new company, State investment in urban transportation would
increase by 80%; the overall investment by more than 10%.
11.   It is clear that RJ does not have the financial capability to take over the CBTU-RJ rail system
and continue operating the Metro which is owned jointly by the GOB, RJ and Municipality of Rio (MRJ).
The system has a limited network confined within the administrative limits of the MRJ, which will



- 96 -
ANNEXd
Page 3 01
assume its operation starting January 1993, under a three-way Agreement signed in April 19'
between the GOB, RJ and MRJ. The MRJ also, regulates within its municipal boundaries, the licensi
of bus services, which are owned and operated exclusively by the private sector.
12.   As noted above however, the improved financial situation of RJ, coupled with the transfer
operational and financial responsibility for the METRO to the MRJ, create c.rcumstances to justify tl
confidence that the authorities have shown in terms of being able to assume, comfortably the financi
responsibilities associated with the project.



7able 4 B I Rio De Janeiro State Revenues and Expencadures. Hreoric and Forecast
(in US$ Milloris. June 1991 Prices)
flEMS   _           -186A _                                          AVERA(Li                                                        PFtOJE
ITEMS                                                 I |l :, TII      87-91      1992     1993           4    1  1995      1998         1997 T198           1 IIS       2000       2001
Toal Revenuies                      3.0| 3    2.786     3.378     3.S889    4.136     3.465      4.702      4,SI       5.128      5.309      5.497       .8        5.898      8.10 6     O2         e.
Currert Revenues                   3,063     2.788     3.378     3,966     4.13X     3,485      4.490      4.716      4.891      5,072      s260       5.456      5.659      5.         8.,88      6,31E
Olwhich TaXRevenue                 2.424     2.238     2.702     3.112     3.007     2.89       3.744      3,884     4.0S0      4211       4.380      4.555      4.737      4.927      5.1124     5.328
Transters                 546       436       609       758       447      55         672        708       720        734         749        764        779        785       811        827
Other                     83       114        65        eS      682       210         74        117        121        126        131        137        142        148        154        16
Capitl Revenues                                                                                   212       237        237        237        237        237        237        237        237        237
0
CmZest E xpedtetim                   3.6f     3.452    3.248     4.53e     3,645     3.748      4274       4271       4,411      4.559      4.7(1      48E4       5.015      5,192      5,SEB     5.4
Goods and Services                 2.342     2,194     1.751     2.509     1.923    2.144      2.405      2A479      2.564      2.652      2.743      2.838      2.936      3.038      3.144      3254
Payre                  2.124      1.910     1.449    2259       1.679    1,e84      2.015      2.078      2.149      2223       2.299      2.379      2.461      2.54       2,635      2.727
Other                    217       284       302       250      243       259        390        401        415        429        444        459        475        492        508        527
Cainert Trnsers                    1.312     1.259     1.4-7     2,030     1.923     1,604      1.869      1.792     1.647       1.097     1.365      2.028      2,089      2.154      2.224      2293
trtra-gowrrwnertal                 55       547       570       648       590       482        502        517        535        553        572        592        612        634       6s5        679
lrter-govaT_neftal                488       42:       562       768       785       605        999        929        86       1.004      1.045      1,086      1.130      1,175      1.222      1.271
Debt-senice                       220       258       562       768       785       519        164        152        146        143        136        128        122        1141       107        97
Irterrnl                                                                            0         161       148        143        140        133        126        118        112        108         95
Extreal                                                                              0         3          3          3          3          3          3          3          2          2          2
Other Transfers                   49        30        28                  38        3         24         1          200        207        212        219        225        231       239        24f
0
Cur#t Balklo                         -591      -868       128      -574       29t      p82)        420        682        717        750        789        e29        871        914       957       1005
CapitllExpendOures                     793     1255       905       839       812       921        440         90         60         G3                    961 9gS              1021       105        102
Investrnen,                         222      3.090      340       151       392       838        308          0          0           l          l          l          l          ,         o           I      r
CepaTraTiesters                     497       704       464       560       418       52980                   0          0                                 °         °          °         °  
DebtAmortateon                     213       395       138        68       108       184        132        90         60         901        93         96         981       1021       105        109
Irsternal                                                                          01       131         88         S8|        88i        GI         94!        9fi|      100|       1031      10
Exleral                                _         _                                 0          1          2          2          21         2          2          2          2         2          2
Over1l Bel,we                       (1.383)   (1.921)    (77)   (1.413)       (522)   (1I2a3       (12)       Gm2        657         6o0       a86        733        773          2                  89 6m
FirwleIrt                       |    1383      19211      7761     1413        22I    12031         12
Boravng                       1    1.169      571       431       427       388       597        S96
Othrf                               214      1.350      345       9s6        134      808
Potdena Capila E4edlu                                                                                         592        BS7        eo0        86m        733        773        812       am2        am8
Menmantun Itesr_
t Debt Serviveas%Revens              t4.t      23.5      20.7      21.1      21.6        201       6.3        4.S        4.0        4A         42         4.0        3.?        3S        3A         3,1
2.DeflciVSapkisas%Re verxJe         -452      -689      -23.0    -35.6    -12.6         (C         0,3       12.0       12MS       12A        12.7       12.9       13.1       13.3       135.       13,7
3, Tr swsto U*>an Trns,Erg.                               11 41      so1       as1       S1         t1 2      152|       1371       lie        1281      t291        130§       131       1331       132
4. Trantss ais % Revenues                                 3.4       2.0       2.1         1|         4        3.1        2.7        22         2.3        23         2.2        2.1        2.1        20
-             :Rweae_t                                                                                        3.1   } }||}|                          
in meal 16111                                                                                              4953      4953       4953        49         483        4953      4953       4953       49il
S. Tandefas5%   Re sra                                                                                        3.1R       2S8        2.4        2.8        2.8        2.8        2.7        2.7       2.7
Souce: Estimates Provided by the Govenvnertof the Stateof Rio de Janeiro                                                                                                                     1 
0S
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



ANNEX 5A
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
1.    The economic evaluation of the project was done for CBTU-RJ as a whole and by corridor. Each
of the main corridors in CBTU-RJ, were evaluated to determine whether any of the corridors should
be dropped from the project. Certain assumptions had to be made in the corridor analysis to assign
rolling stock to each corridor. In addition to the above evaluation, an analysis of incremental ERR for
the electrification of 6 km of track in CBTU-RJ was also undertaken. The overall and corridor ERR's
for tise base case, summarizecd in Table 5A.1 and 5A.2, are satisfactory and show that the CBTU-RJ
rehabilitation program has a high economic justification.
2.    The benefits quantified in the evaluation were: (a) direct benefits, such as the reduction of trip
cost and the value of time savings, reduction of the road maintenance cost due to fewer buses, as well
as reduction of the operating costs associated with more efficient traffic flow; (b) indirect benefits
such as the reduction of congestion due to fawer buses, reduction of road accidents, and the reduction
of environmental pollution. Indirect benefits were not included in the base cases evaluated, and were
only used for sensitivity analysis purposes. The costs quantified in the economic analysis were: (a)
the long-run marginal costs of the CBTU operation, estimated on the basis of sound operating and
maintenance policies; and (b) the economic investment costs of the program.
3.    The basic inputs used in the evaluation are summarized in Table 5A.3. The analysis was
undertaken on a corridor basis by corridor basis and for the overall network comparing the situation
with and without the project. The sensitivity analysis is summarized in Table 5A.2. In order to test
the economic viability of the proposed 4.5 km electrification in the Leopoldina corridor, an economic
evaluation of the electrification scheme was also undertaken and the results are given in Table 5A.2.
The ERR for the whole project was estimated at 43.4%. Cost and benefit strmams with and without
externalities are shown in Table 5A.4 and 6A.5 with details of the analysis is provided in Report No.
CB20 in Project Files.
4.    The sensitivity analysis on traffic forecasts, increased investment costs, deferral of benefits
to the fourth year, etc., produced acceptable rates of return ranging from 23.4% to 63.2% (Table
5A.2).
Table 5A. 1: CBTU-RJ: Economic Evaluation
CORRIDORS                     ERR(%)         NPV(US$910)          BIC
All Corridors                                    43.4            265.6               3.1
D.Pedro Il/Deodoro2
D.Pedro Il/Sta Cruz                              47.0            106.6              3.2
D.Pedro Il/Japeri                                53.7             91.4               3.3
Linha Auxiliar (Don Pedeo Il/Belford Roxo)       36.0             38.4              4.3
Leopoldina3                                 36.5(36.6)       39.9(36.6)             2.34
1/ Useful life: 20 years; Discounted rate: 11% per year
2/ Included in the D.Pedroll/Sante Cruz corridor
3/ Values in parenthesis refer to case without electrification of Gramacho-Saracurna



TABLE SA.2 CBTU-RJ: Economic Evaluation - SoKlivfty Analysb
A               B                  I D                                                                        I                 IWHOUT
BASE    SALARIES AND    ELECTRIRTllY                                               BENEFIT (-1I    DEFERRAL OF  EXTERNA           D       LECTRIFICA1lON
CASE       WAGES                a              (     T     RL  tt01 A l 10 A t-10o   INVESTU NT  A (+I%,  10)MIBENEIS TOT msC ('0 1 I EPODN
+         10 %  |        -10 X   +  tO X |-10X   +10%t-10%                   C (+F)i    FOURTHYEA    INCLUDED &a(+10X               COIRIDOR
A - D.PEDROII SANTA CRUZ
-ERR (%)              |   47.0       37.0   60.31    40.41    54.91   31.81   43.01    71.41  41.5|  54.21            29.01            32.6       89.01      24.1
-NPV (US$ x 1.O0.0       106.61    85.01 128.11   93.01  120.11   71.51   98.51  141.01 101.41 111.81                64.3             87.81    173.01       61.01
-B/cI                       3.21      2.2    5.8      2.5      4.5     1.9      2.8    11.9    2.0    3.6              1.9              2.         4.6        1.8
- D.PEDROll JAPERI
-ERR                       6 s3.7    43.81   68.71    45.2    6431   386.91    2.0    81.3   47.7    1.61             34.71            38.41      79.1       20.
- NPV (USSxx.000.000i |   9t.41      77.11 105.71   79.1   103.01    64.81    3.2   118.1   87.81   5.01              60.1             78.41     151.11      60.S
-BIC                        3.31      2.41    5.21    2.5      4.81    2.01    89.5    10.5    3.01    3.71            2.11             3.01       4.81       2.11
C - D.PEDROII BELFORD ROXO
- ERR                      30.01     29.01  43.4    32.71    39.61   26.71    32.71    47.51   32.2|  40.81           24.01            29.1       46.51      22.1
- NPVS x 1.000.000)        38.4      30.11  4071   34.81    42.51    26.01    34.21    50.91   30.01   40.81          22.61            33.21      57.71      22.41
- BIC                       4.21      2.5   13.71     3.11     6.41    2.1      3.11      *    3.5    5.31             2.01             3.81       5.8        2.0
D - BMAUA SARACURUNA
-ERRt%)               I   36.51      27.0"   47.21    31.91    41.51    24.01    32.01    53.71   32.51   41.5        21.41            25.91      51.1|      18.2              38.
-NPV 1S$ x 1.000.000       309.9      2.81TI 51.21    33.91    46.0    22.51    34.71    57.21   37.31  42.51         18.91            30.41      64.21      16.6              36.6
-BIC                        2.31      1.71    3.51    1.91     2.81    1.51     2.01     5.1    2.11   2.51             .41             2.01       3.11       .4                  *   (0
AU CarrnC
- ERR                      43.       34.1   54.51    37.51    50.11   29.81    30.91    63.21   38.51  49.1           27.21            32.81      62.01      24.11             44.
- NPV AS$MI0)             265.8r  210.4  321.21   230.0   301.61   174.61   246.21   357.01  252.01  279.6           157.21           225.41     431.0      156.1             262.
-BiC                  I    S3.11      2.11    5.41    2.41     4.31    1.8      2.7    10.6    2.1    3.41             1.81             2.81       4.41       1.81              3.7
UUAbLN: 20yws; DiscouatRate: II%lyaw
SoUC: CBTU



-Iioc-
ANNEX 5A
Page 3 of 5
Table 5A.3: Basic Inputs Used for Economic Evaluton - CBTU-RJ
r                                         I     '    ^           ~~~~~~~~~~CORRIDO R
t   P A R A M E T E R         SYMBOL    UNIT       GLO:AL  I D.PEDRO Il/ D.PEDROI1/ D.PEDRO IlIJ  B. MAUA/
L____________________________________                        _ ,        _  SANTA CAUgZ  JAPERI  I B.ROXO   SARACURUNA
PRES_ENT _DEMAND___                          Dc  PASS/DAY        700,000      265,000     177,000    108,000       150,000
AVERAGE TRIP LENGTH                  =        L        Km           28.00        27.23      38.63       22.88         20.47
AVE RAGE BIJS ROUTE LENG',-                  CIO       Krn          30.00        31.14       38.06      24.63         27.81
% DEMAND CAPTURED BY TRAlN-Y_VEA_,11         Fel                     0.90         0.90       0.90        0.90          0.90
% DEMAND CAPTURED BY TRAIFN_ - Y-EAR 2       Fc2                     0.90         0.90       0.90        0.90          0.90
% DEMAND CAPTURED BY TRAIN - YEAR 3          Fc3                     0.95         0.95       0.95        0.95          0.95
% DEMAND CAPTURED BY TRAIN - YEAR 4          Fc4        _            0.95         0.95       0.95        0.95          0.95
%DEMANDCAPTUREDBYTRAIN-YEAR5                 Fc5      _              1.00         1.00        1.00       1.00          1.00
TRAIN CAPACITY - YEAR 1                      O1     PASS/ODA      800.000      312,000     200.000    120,000       168,000
TRAIN CAPACrTY - YEAR 2                      02    PASSS/DAY      900,000      351.000     225,000    135,000       189,000
TRAIN CAPACITY - YEAR 3                      03    PASS/DAY    1,060,000       400,000    260,000     160,000       240,000
TRAIN CAPACrfY - YEAR 4                      04    PASS/DAY    1,200,000       4,         312,000     180,000       240,000
TRAIN CAPACI-Y - YEAR5                       05    PASS/DAY    1,200,000       468,000    312,000     180,000       240,000
INVESIMENT - YEAR 1                          11    US$x 1v          49.52        15.28      10.43       13.66         10.15
INVESTMENT - YEAR2                           12    US$x 10°         74.18        31.27      21.68        8.17         13.06
INVESTMENT - YEAR 3                          13     US$x 10 °       40.05         15.5      11.36        6.33         6.86
INVEST ENT - YEAR4                         -14    US$x10             6.91        2.77        1.06        1.31         1.77
INVESTMENT - YEAR 5                          Is     US$ x10 °        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
AVERAGE INCOME OF BUS USERS                 Rmo        SM            3.50         3.50       3.50        3.50         3.50
AVERAGE INCOME OF TRAIN USERS               RBm        SM            1.80         2.06       1.69        1.56          1.40
RENEWALFACTORFORBBUS                         FR        -             1.15        1.18        1.10        1.15         1.15
BUS COMMERCIAL SPEED                         Vo       Km/h          28.00        35.00      38.00       20.00        20.00
TRAIN COMMERCIAL SPEED                       Vt       Km/h          36.00        38.63      45.30       31.00         37.00
REDUCTION OF WAMNG TIME YEAR 1            Rtb ano I    h            0.019       0.023       0.032       0.019        0.003
REDUCTION OF WAIING TIME YEAR 2           Rtb ano 2    h            0.048       0.071       0.068       0.027        0.011
BUS OPERATING COST                          cop      US$/K           0.52        0.52        0.52        0.52         0.52
I ROAD MAINTENANCE COST                     Ccr      US$/km        0.0004      0.0004      0.0004      0.0004       0.0004
ROAD CPERATION MANAGEMENT COST              Cor      US$/km        0.0004      0.0004      0.0004      0.0004       0.0004
I OP+MTCE SALARIES AND WAGES - BASIC COST   CPom    US$ x 106       37.89        14.78       9.85        5.68         7.58
% OP+MTCE SALARIES AND WAGES - YEAR 1  | Pomi                         62           62         62          62            62
%OP+MTCESALARIESANDWAGES-YEAR2             Pom 2       %              65           65          65         65            65
% OP+MTCE SALARIES SANDWAGES- YEAR3        Poim3       %              70           70          70         70            70
% OP+MTCE SALARIES AND WAGES - YEAR 4      Pom 4                      70           70          70         70            70
%OP+MTCESSALARIESANDWAGES-YEAR5  IPom5                  %             70           70          70         70            70
UNIT COST (OP+MTCE STAFF                   CdCup.om   US$/rpass __0.126         0.126       0.126       0.126        0.126
PRESENT CAR x Km                            C.Km   C.Km x 10O     4632.7      1752.8      1512.8       759.9        607.2
CORRECTION FACTORCAR x Km - YEAR1          Fckmi   -  -            1.0975       1.1545     1.1148      0.9311        1.0985
CORRECTION FACTOR CAR x Km - YEAR 2      IFckm2        -           1.1037       1.1365     1.1544      0.9311        1.0985
CORRECTIONFACTORCARxKm-YEARS3              Fckm3       -           1.2404       1.3154     1.1544      0.9647         1.583
CORRECTION FACTOR CAR x Km- YEAR4        IdFckm4       -           1.3262       1.3154     1.3837      1.0318         1.583
CORRECTION FACTORCARx Km-YEAR              Fckm5       -           1.3262       1.3154     1.3837      1.0318        1.583
UNI COST FOR ELETRICAL ENERGY               Cuee   US$/C.km         0.195        0.195      0.195       0.195        0.195
SPARES AND MATERIALS BASIC COST             Cms   US$ x 10-6        17.46         6.51       5.91        2.38         2.66
CORRECTION FACTOR FOR COSTOF 
MTERIALS WITH PROJECT                       Mcp _                     1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2          1.2
CORRECTION FACTOR FOR COST OF                                                                                            2 _
MATERIALS WITHOUT PROJECT                IMsp                         1.3          1.3        1.3         1.3          1.3
%OFOTHERCOSTS-YEAR I                       Poc1 1 11.5                          11.5       11.5        11.           11.5
% OF OTHER COSTS - YEAR 2           -       PO 2       %      '      11.0         11.0       11.0        11.0          11.0
% OF OTHER COSTS - YEAR 3                 _ PocS3      %             10.5         10.5       10.5        10.5         10.5
% OF OTHER COSTS - YEAR 4                   Poc 4      %             10.0         10.0       10.0        10.0         10.0
PRESENT % OF (OF+MTCE) STAFF COSTS         F Pomat    5% 57.4                     57.4       57.4                     57.4
%OF OTHER COSTS WITHOUT PROJECT             OCsp       %             14.0         14.0       14.0        14.0         14.0
RESIDUAL VALUE OF INVES5MENT                                           0 %         5.0        5.0         5.0          5.0
USEFUL DAYS/YEAR                             Nd       Days           300          300         300        300           300
MINIMUM WAGE WITHOUT TAXES                   SM_      US              68           68          68         68            68
MINIMUM WAGEWITHTAXES                       Vsm       US$            1501         150         150        150           150
BUS CAPACITY                             iCV    PASS/BUS j            75           75          75         75            75
NUMBER OF WORKING HOURS/MONTH                Hm       Ho"s [          180' 180_               180        180           180



Table 5A.4: Economic Evaluation of CBTU-RJ with and without Project
(All Conidors)
Externalitles included
_JySSimon)
EXTERNALMES                        DIRECT BENEFITS                                                            ..
Y   QEOUCTION'REDUCTION REDUCTION    REDUCTION Of                    REDUCTION OF                                      COSTS                               NET
E        OFOF                       OF      TFRAVEL IWAMI   BUES   ROAD  I13US SYS. TOTAL  SALARIES E' EC- MATER- OTHERS INVEST- TOTAL BENEFT
A   CONGESTION       ROAD        ENVIRON.   TIME    TIME  OPERAIT MAINTEN MANAGE. BENEFIT               &      TRICM   IALS             MENTS COSTS  (B-C)
R  (ACCDENTS POLLUTION                                         COSTS I COSTS COSTS                    WAG -S-
m                                           ~~m
1            0.55         0.16         0.37     0.30     0.90     2.17      0.00      0.00      4.45    -4.90    1.06     0.30    -3.73    49.52   42.25   -37.79
2            3.03         0.88          2.01    1.65     2.27    11.94      0.01      0.01     21.83   -13.67    1.12     0.43   -5.40    74.18   56.66    -34.83
3            8.46         2.46          5.69    4.60     2.27    33.32      0.03      0.03     56.86    -8.77    2.61     3.29   -4.86    40.0S   32.31      24.54
4           12.13         3.53         8.16     6.60     2.27    47.75      0.04.     0.04     80.51    -1.21    3.54     5.09   --4.32     6.91   1000      70.50
5           13.78         4.01          9.27    7.50     2.27    54.26      0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.541    5.09     432      000    309       8808
6           13.78         4.01          9.27    7.50     2.27    54.26      0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54     5.09    -4.32             3.09     88.08
7           13.78         4.01          9.27    7.50     2.27    54.26      0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54     5.09   -4.32              3.09    8808
8           13.78         4.01          9.27    7.50     2.27    54.26      0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54     5.09    -4.32             3.091    88.08
9           1" I8         4.01          9.27    7.50     2.27    54.26      0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54     5.09    -4.32             3.09     88.08|
10 1                       4.01         9.27     7.50     2.27    54.26     0.04      0.04     91.17     -1.21    3.54     5.09    -4.32            3.09     88.08
11                         4.01         9.27     7.50     2.27    54.26     0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54      5.09   -4.32             3.09T  88.08
12           13.78|        4.01         9.27     7.50     2.27    54.261    0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54      5.09   -4.32             3.09     88.08
13           13.78         4.01         9.27     7.50     2.27    54.26     0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54      5.09   -4.32             3.09     88.08
14           13.78         4.01         9.27     7.50     2.27    54.26     0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54      5.09   -4.32             3.09     88.08
15           13.78         4.01         9.27     7.50     2.27    54.26     0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54      5.09   -4.321            3.09     88.08
16           13.78         4.01         9.27     7.50     2.27    54.26     0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54      5.09   -4.321            3.09     88.08
17           13.78         4.01         9.27     7.50     2.27    54.26     0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54      5.09   - .               3.09     88.08
18           13.78         4.01         9.27     7.50     2.27    54.26     0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.21    3.54      5.09    -4.32            3.09     88.08
1 9          13.781        4.01         9.27     7.50     2.27    54.26     0.04      0.04     91.17     -1.211  3.54      5.09    -4321            3.09     88.08
20           13.781        4.01         9.27     7.50     2.271   54.261    0.04      0.04     91.17    -1.211   3.54      5.09    -4.321  -6.19   -3.09     94.27
-P.
CITZ
o i
0n



Table 5A.5: Ecoromic Evalalton of CB1M-RR wih and Wthu Project
(AN Ca kos)
E4mersffes not bctded                
__ 7            EXINAU11ES:                   DlRECT BENEF1TS  __    __                      1     1     1                         1       g
Y   EUC"On-(   REDUCTlON SEDU"T10    NlRCla                      EWUCIO  O                                     COS7T                          I  NET 
E       OF           OF    I    OF        TRAVEL W         BSES   ROAD  BUS SYS. TOTAL  SALARIE ELEC- MATER  OTHERS IN T TOTAL
A  CONGESION    ROAD   I ENVIFON.   TIME   TE  OPERAT MAINTEN MANAGE BENEfIT:    A    TRIC    IAS                               MENTS COSTS   (B-C)
R      gl,_    ACCIDENIS   POLLUIION                       COSTSi COSTS   COSiTS        (M     WAGES                    ___(C)|I
I           0.00         0.00        0.00    0.30    0.90    2.17      0.00      0.00     3.37    -4.90    1.06    0.30   -3.73    49.52  42.25    -38.871
2           0.00         0.00        0.00     1 .65    2.27   11.94     0.01     0.01    15.87   -13.67    1.12    0.43   -5.40    74.18  56.66    -40.79
_3           0.0          0.0         0.00    4.60    227    3B S2      0.09      0.03    4024    -&77   2.61    S29   -4.86    40.C05  32Z31         7.931
4           0.00         0.00        0.00     460    227    47.75      0.04      0.04    56.62    -121     3.54    5.09   -4.32        6.91  10.00  46.69
5           0.00         0.00        0.00    7.50    227   5426         0.04     0.04    64.11    -121    3.54    5.09   -4.32      6.W  3109       61462.6
7           0.00         0.00        0.00    7A501   227    54261    0.04        0.04    64.11    -121    3.54    5.09   -4.32             3.09     61.02
6           0.00         0.00 0Q00    7.50    227    5426              0.04      0.04    64.11    -121    3.54    5.09   -4.32             3.091    61.02    t
9           0.00         0.00        0.00    7.50    2.27    54.26      0.04     0.04    64.11    -1.21    3.54    5.09   -4.32            3.091    61.02
8_          0.00         0.00        0.00    7.50    2.27    54.26      0.04     0.04    64.11    -1.21    3.54    5.09   -4.32            3.09     61.02
10          0.00         0.00        0.00    7.50    2.27   5426        0.04     0.04    64.11    -121    3.54    5.09   -4.32             3.09      61.02 1
10          0.00         0.00        0.00    7.50    227   5426         0.04     0.04    64.11    -121    3.54    5.09   -4.32             3.09      61.02
12          0.00         0.00         0.00    7.50    227    54.26      0.04     0.04    64.11    -1.21    3.54    5.09   -4.32            3.09      61.02
13          0.00         0.00         0.00    7.50    227    54.26      0.04     0.04    64.11    -1.21    3.54    5.09   -4.32            3.09      61.02
13           0.00        0.00        o00      7.50    227   54.26       0.04     0.04    64.11    -121    3.54    5.09   -4.32             3.09      61.02
14          0.00         0.W0         0.00    7.50    2.27    54.26     0.04     0.04    64.11    -121    3.54    5.09   -4.32             3.09      61.02
17           0.00        Q0.         0.00    7.50    2.27    54.26      0.04     0.04    64.11    -121    3.54    5.09   -4.32             3.09      61.02
167          0.00        0.00        000    7.50    2.27    5 4.28      0.04     0.04    54.1 1    -1.21    3.54    5.Q9   -4.32           3.09      61.021
17           0.00        0.00         0.00    7.50    2.27   54.26      0.04     0.04    64.11    -1.21    3.4     5.09   -43              3.09      61.02
18           0.00        0.00         0.00    7.50    2.271   54.28     0.04     0.04    64.11    -121 _3.#4    5.09   -4.S                3.09      61.021
19          0.00         0.00        0.00    7.50    227    54.26       0.04     0.04    64.11    -1.21    3.54    5.09   -4.2             3.09   61.02
20           0.00        0.00         0.00    7.50    227    54.26      0.04     0.04    64.11    -121    3.54    5.09   -4.92   -6.19    3.09       6720
II
it
an



AMIEX5B
Page 1 of 8
RlO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
FlNANCIIL PROJECTIONS for CBTU-RJ
1.    The proposed project finances the investment required by CBTU-RJ to meet the operational and
financial targets set in Annex 2.
2.    The combination of tariff increases, increased passengers and cost reductions are projected to
decrease the operating subsidies from USS 172 million in 1990 (US$ 1.03 per paying passenger) to
USS 92.1 million In 1997 IUSS .29 per paying passenger). The working costs will decrease from 10.6
times revenues to 2.2 times revenues. Additional ridership and increased fares after 1997 will
continue the performance improvement.
Summary of oroiect assumptions
3.    The accompanying financial projections of CBTU-RJ set out in Tables SB-1 to 5B-7 inclusive,
are based on the following assumptions:
4.    Decentralization assumotions. The urban rail transpzort systems of Rio de Janeiro (CBTU-RJ)
will be transferred to the respective state govemments free of debt and prior liabilities. All subsidies
received for operating costs and capital additions (including the World Bank project) will be the
responsibility of the federal government until the decentralization is completed. The State will be
responsible for paying the operating subsidy after decentralization (para 8 below). Future debt service
requirements existing at the time of decentralization will remain a federal obligation until this debt is
cancelled.
5.    The assets transferred constitute the rail systems of the two cities operated by CBTU, except
for an unprofitable narrow gauge line (BITOLINHA) in Rio de Janeiro which will remain the property of
CBTU, and will be replaced by a bus-corridor.
6.    Financial assumptions-income stateMeats. The projections are based on the 1991 actual
results projected to the year 2002 in accordance with the assumptions listed below. The revenues and
costs of operating the narrow gauge systein of CBTU-RJ were subtracted from the 1990 results of
CBTU-RJ. Results for 1990 for both systems were converted into dollars at the average exchange rate
for 1990 of CR$ 68.55 per USS 1.00. The Project is assumed to begin during 1993 and continue until
1997.
7.     Farebox revenues and other revenues. The passenger-generated revenues were projected by
assuming increases on transported passengers, reduction of fare evasion and tariff increases, that by
the time the project is completed in 1997, will have reached 90% of the modal (most common) bus
fares. These projections conservatively assume that the number of paying passengers and tariffs will
not increase after 1997. Other revenues for rents and other services are projected from historical
amounts, and because they are not material to results, are subtracted from other expenses in the
income statement projections.
8.     Operatina subsidy. The operating subsidy is the difference between farebox revenues and
working costs and consequently, does not provide for capital additions or debt service.
9.     Salaries and waaes. Salaries and wages were projected based on the 1990 wage-bill and



ANNEX 
Page 2 of
adjusted for personnel reductions that began in May 1990, and which are expected to continue thoul
1995, when CBTU forecasts an increase in maintenance personnel needed as ridership increase
Details of forecasted salaries and wages are attached in Table 5B.6.
10.   Electricity. Electricity costs were projected according to the consumption of car x Km/mon
observed in 1989, the projected increases of the car x Km/month and electricity rates of March 199
These projections are presented in Table 5B.4.
11.   Spares and materials for maintenance. Spares and materials expenses for maintenance we
projected based on 89/90 values, increased by 20% for CBTU-RJ , management's estimates of tl
1989/90 under maintenance, Projections beyond 1991 were based on the forecasted increases of c
x Km/month and are presented in Table 5B.6.
12.    Other workina costs. The other working costs were projected as percentages of the to1
working expenses based on 89/90 values. For Rio it was assumed that they will decrease slightl
These projections are presented in Table 5B.4.
13.   Deoreciation. Depreciation charge is based on an estimate of depreciation based on currei
replacement values rather than on undervalued CBTU carrying costs for its substantially depreciate
fixed assets as shown in Table 5B.7.
14.   Interest. Since the federal government assumes all existing debt burden before and afti
decentralization, the projections do not include any provision for interest. For comparison purpose,
the 1990 income statements exclude interest with a corresponding reduction in the operating subsidl
15.   Other costs, net. Other costs include provisions for accident or labor claims incurred aft(
decentralization and other various minor costs, net of miscellaneous revenues.
16.   Financial assumations-statements of sources and agglication of funds. The source an
application of funds consolidates the funds produced by the independent systems with additional fund
required to maintain the transport system.
17.   Other sources. rhe other sources consist of the proceeds from the World Bank project loa
and capital subsidies from the Federal Government for:
a.    Federal government counterpart funds for the project.
b.    Capital addition requirements not financed by the World Bank
c.    Debt service for existing loans (interest and capital)
d.    Debt service for the World Bank loan (interest and capital)
18.   Investments.  The investments for 1992-1996 are the estimate of the capital additioi
requirements not financed by the project of the two systems during the project implementation period
For the years 1997-2001 these amounts decrease to an estimate of capital additions required t
maintain the renovated systems.
19.   Interest and amortization. These amounts are based on management-supplied information o
debt service to maturity of existing loans and the proposed World Bank loan.



-105-
ANNEX 5B
Page 3 of 8
TABLE 58.1 CBTU-RJ: Income StatementsActual 1990 Prolected 101 -1993-2001
(millions of US dollars)
1'90°    10011  . 10021   10031:  19941   1005s    1906    19071   19081   19901   20001    2001
Passenger and ftae statisU_e:                                                        I         I        I        I         I        I
Passengers transported (000)       7e      630       720      810    1 000    1140    1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200
Evasion %                        22%       20%      13%      10%        8%       8%       8%        8%       8%       8%        8%       8%
Paying passeng er r ada (000)     841      504       576      705      900    1,049   1t104  1,104 -  1,104    1.104    1.104    1.104
Average Fare                      $0.11    $0.12    $0.16    $0.17    $0.20    $0.25    $0.26    $0.26    $0.28    $0.20    $0.2e    $0.28
Incorne :                                           _
Farebox revenue                 817.9   $S1.1    S25.9    $35.91   $54.0    $78.7    $86.1    $86.1    $88.1    $86.1    $ S86.1       $ 883.1
Other operating                   2.4       0.7      0.8      1.1       2.2      3.2      4.1       4.11     4.1      4.11      4.1      4.1
Operating subsidy    ____       11_. 155.1_ 143.5    127.71   107.              85.71    92.11    92.11    02.1      92.1       2.1      2.1
I                ~~~~~~~~~Sfrotal  180.91   17w3.91_ 170.21   14.71   104.01   1o7.01   182.31   182.31   182.31   182.31   182.31   182.31
Costs and expenses:
Working costs- -                                                                             i
|Salariesandwages              135.8    115.4    110.2    106.7    100.0    100.9    114.21   114.2    114.2    114.2    114.2    114.2
Elctricit_    10.8                       12.8      14.0     14.1     15.0      17.0     17.01    17.0     17.0      17.0     17.0     17.0
Spares and materials            20.5     24.8      27.3     27.4     30.8      32.9     32.91    32.9     32.9      32.9     32.9     32.9
_Other                            22.8      20.9     18.7     16.5      16. ;    18.8     18.2     18.2      18.2     18,2     18.2      18.2
S/Total  189.9    173.9    170.2    164.7    164.0    167.6    182.3    182.3    182.3    182.3    182.3    182.3
Operatinig expenses, net
excluding interest-                             _        ___
Depreciation                    20.1     28.2      30.5     55.5     77.8     77.8      77.8     77.8     77,8      77.8     77.8     77.8
Other, net                       11.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5      1.5       1 5      1.5      1.5      1.5
________________________  ~~21.7   29.7     41.0     57.0     '79.31    79.31    79.31    79.31     79.3     79.3      79.3     79.3
Total Costs                      211.6    203.6    211.2    221.7    243.3   246.9   281.6    261.6    261.6    261.8   281.6    281.6
Loss for the year             I (521.7X  ($29.    (41.0)  ($S7.0    (793    $79.3)l  ($79.    ($79.3    $79.31  ($79.    ($79.3   (S79.3
Federal government expenses.                        $
Interest and amortization    | $eo.01   SS8.71   $55.71   $54.e1   ss4.31   s30.31   s23.71   s33.91   s27.71   s18.71   s17.61   S167|
R atio$:__                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Working Ratio
-with operating subsidy         1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
-without operating subsidy     10.00     0.61     6.57      4.59     3.04     2.13      2.12     2.12     2.12      2.12     2.12     2.12
Operating Ratio
-with operating subsidy         1.11     1.17      1.24     1.35     1.48     1.47      1.43     1.43     1.43i    1.43      1.43     1.43
-withoutoperating subsidy      11.81    11.25     8.16      6.17     4.51     3.14      3.04     3.04     3.04      3.04     3.04     3.04
O Operatinubsidy%ofIncome        893%    8.2%1   84.3%1   77.5%    65.7%    51.1%    50.5%1 50.5%1 50.5%1 50.5%               0%      505%1
Sries.ofworkingeosts .          715%    60.4%    64.7%3   64.8%1    1.5%    60.2%    62.8%r  62.0%    62.6%    62.6%    62.6%    62.8%



-106-
ANNEX 5B
Page 4 of 8
Table 5B.2: Sources and Applications of Funds and Summary of Subsidles 1091 -2001
(mfllions of US dollars)
1SOURCES                         1mil2o 1902       A        19941   1995     10                  1      1909    20001    001
Prom operations:
Loss for theyear        _| (29.7!  (O41.0)1  (O57.0)1  (O79.3)1  (O79.3)1  ($79.9)1  (O79.3)1  (S79.3)  (S79.3)1  (679.3)1  (879._)
Add. dcpreclaton                28.2    39.5    55.5    77.81   77.81    77.8    77.8    77.8    77.8    77.8    77.8
Non-cash provisions              1.5      1.5     1.5 I    1.5      1.51     1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.1      1.5
Tot from opeations               0.0        1 0.01 0.01 0.0         0.01     0.0-     0.0o     0.01 0.0          0.0      0.0
Other souroes
Proceeds *rom World Bank loan       1 31.21   51.91   25.51    3.81    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.0
CapIta subsidies for -
Projct counterpart funds               39.9    a0.3'    32.        4.8      0.0      0.0
Other capital investment   I  15.01      0-0     0.0!    19.8    89 2!    77.8    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0
Debt sevico destin loans      58.7    55.0    61.2    47.0    22.0    14.9    13.9           8.4      0.3      0.0     0.0
Debt servico World Bank         0.0     0.7      3.4      5.7      8.4      8.7    19.9    t9.3       18.4    17.6    15.7
73.71    05.01   120.91   106.61   104.31   101.51    60.9o    54.71    45.71    44.61    43.7
Totlw sourcs       _            73.71   126.81   172.81   132.11   108.11   101.51    60.91    54.71    45.71    44.01    43.7
APPLICATIONS
Investmnts:
World D3ank projct         I 0.01   71.11  1182:   58.01    8.6     0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.                  0.
Other                      1  15.01     0.01     0.01    19.81    69.21    77.81    27.01    27.01    27.01    27.01    27.0
15.0    71.11  118.21    77.81   77.81    77.81    27.01    27.01    27.01    27.01    27.0
Interest *nd amortization:
World Dank robt                 0.0     0.71     2.4      6.7      8.4      8.7    19.91   19.3    18.4    17.6    10.7
Exdsting loans                 58.7    55.0    51.2    47.0    22.0    14.0    13.9           8.4      0.3     0.0      0.0
5 58.71    55.71    54.6    54.31    30.31    23.71    33.91    27.71    18.71    17.01    10.7
Totl pplcatlons             1  73.71   12.31   172.81   132.11   108.1|  101.51    60.91    54.71    45.71    44.61    43.7
Nat chang, for the yer         U0.01    80.01    60.01    s0.0o    $0.01    80.01    80.0    80.01    80.01    80.01   80.0
Op eratin subsidy             $155.11   143.5  .127.1 1107.81  885.71  S92.1|  S92.11  $92.11   S92.11  892.1   $92.1
C apK subsidy:                       I                         I                 I        I I              l I
Investments                    15.01    71.11   118.21    77.81    77.81    77.8j    27.0!    27.01    27.01    27.0!    27.0
Debt service World Bank         0.01     0.71     3.41     6.71     8.41     8.71    19.9    19.3    18.4    17.6     16.7
Debt service exsatng loans      58.71    55.0    51.21   47.01    22.01    14.91    13.91      8.41     0.31    0.01     0.0
73.71   120.81   172.81   132.11   108.11   101.51    80.91    54.71    45.71    44.01    43.7
$228.8  $270.31   300.41  $239.91  8193.81  8193.61  $153.01  8146.81  8137.8  $138.7  8135.8
Subsidy Dt payin passenger:
o erating                      8 $1.031   80.831   80.601   0.401   s0.271  s0.281   80.281    0.281   80.281   80.281   80.28
Cp Ia                       1  0.491    0.731    0.821    0.491    0.341    0.311    0.181    0.171    0.141    0.131    0.13
____                         8$1.511  $1.501   81.421   $0.891   $0.621   $0.59!   80.481   80.451   80.421   $0.411   S0.41



-107-
ANNEX 5B
Page 5 of 8
Tablb 68.3 C8TU-RJ: Balance Sheets
(millions of US dollar)
ASSETS                                                                                                                             =
Currentasde                                 13       13        13       13       13       13       13       13       13        13
Prop"rty plant and *quipment__                           _        _                         _                                     _
Cost and revalusbton                      708      779    1,340    1,424    1,501    1,579    1,600      1,033    1,600    1,087
Accumulated dprocbation                    (80)    (119     (175)    (253)    (330     (408     (48       (54      (84      (710  =
S/Total    828      880    1,171    1,171i   1.171    1,171    1,120    1.060    1.019 -      08 _
Total    $841    s873   S1.184   01,184 S  , 1184 S1.184   81,134   S1.083   01.032    0081
LIASILMlES AND EQUrY                                                                 _
Cwront liabirres                   _         8       $9      $11      $12       S14      $15      $17      S18      $20      $21
Equity:                               _                                              _                             _
CapHbl                                    634      O34      634       634      634      GU4      634      034      034      634  =
Additional contrlbutlor _                           71       189      267      345      423      450      477      504      831 _
Revaluaton Rese_                                            440      449       449      449      449      449      449      449
Total     634      705    1,272    1,3501   1,427    1,505    1,532    1,659    1,588    1,613    1
Accumulatbd deficit_
Beginning of year                          0        01      (41      (98)    (177     (257     (38    (418        (4951    (574)
Results of current yea                     0       (414     (57      (79)     (79      (7t;     (79w     (79           (79       -
Balance end of yew                         0       (41      (       (I J     (25    J38        (4151    (4051    (         (J!X 
S/rotel    834      6841   1,174    1,172    1,171    11691   1,117]   1,065    1,012         goo
Total,   $641l     6731  $1,184, 81,184, 51,184, $1,184, $1,1341  81.08S3   $1,032S  8981           1
ADDITmONAL CAPITAL CONTRIUlMON:                                                                                                   T
Balance beginnin ofyew                               $0      $71     $189    8267    8345    8423    8450          $477    $504      S
| Recemed World Bank loan               _31                     52       25        4         0        0        0        0        0 _°l
Reelvedeapltalsubsidy                               go_ 90  121       107      104      101       1       55       48       45
Paid interest and anmcrIimton                                                                                      (I__ 5  ~J ~ ~   ~ 2  ~   O~
s/Totalr  __         711      118      78       78       78       27 1__            27_      27
BalEnceoendoftyw Iar                                5 $711   51891   $2671   634        S4231   84501   84771   $            M531 I



- 108 -
ANNEX 5i
Page 6 of 8
Table 5B.4: Projection of Electricity Costs
CAR X    TRANSPORT    UNIT  ELECTRICITY    OTHERF*
YEAR    Kn/month CAPACITY/DAY   COST               COST  EXPENSES
_ . ~~~~itn 1 0-1'3 pass.    LUS$        M-S$millfion- -
1991/92  4,632,700           700     0.231         12.8         12%
1993  5,084,550            800     0.23          14.0        11%
1994  5,112,950            900     0.23          14.1        11%
1995  5,746,267          1,060     0.23          15.9        10%
1996  6,144,067          1,200     0.23          17.0        10%
1997  6,144,067          1,200     0.23          17.0        10%
1998  6,144,067          1,200     0.23          17.0        10%
1999  6,144,067          1,200     0.23          17.0        10%
2000  6,144,067          1,200     0.23          17.0        10%
2001   6,144,067         1,200     0.23          17.0        10%
2002  6,144,067          1,200     0.23          17.01
Average consumption by car x Km/month observed in 1989 with electricity rate of 1991
electricity rate of 1991.
...as percentages of the total working expenses



- 109 -                                                       ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8
Table 556: Passenger Generr d Revenue Esimates
iRANSPTED  lRANSPORTED  EVASION              PAYING       TARW-F   FARE-BOX    OT1HERJ   OMER
MR            YR       PASSENGERS   PASSENGERS    RATE     PASSENGERS                      REVENUE   F EOX RE,          V
.   0SIUAEH1)  PJDAYflo')  P/YA ("10^8        %      PIYEAR (10"81    USs    US$MILLION        AIIA %7.1 :LM$MtL
1991         1099                630            189        20%          151.20      0.12          18.1         4%       0.73
1992         1992                670            201        19%          162.81      0.16          26.0         3%       0.78
1993         1993                810            243        13%          211.41      0.17          35.9         3%       1.08
1904         1994               1o000           300        10%          270.00      0.20          84.0         4%       2.16
1995         1996               1,140           342         8%          314.64      0.25          78.7         4%       3.15
1996         1996               1.200           360         8%          331.20      0.26          88.1         6%       4.14
1997         1997               1.200           380         8%          331.20      0.26          88.1         5%       4.14
1998         1998               1,200           3e0         8%          331.20      0.28          88.1         5%       4.14
1999         1999               1.200           380         8%          331.20      0.26          88.1         5%       4.14
2000         2000               1,200           380         8%          331.20      0.26          88.1         6%       4.14
2001         2001               1,200           380         8%          331.20      0.26          88.1         5%       4.14
Note: Transported passengers per year was calculated by mutplying estimated passengems per day by 300.
Table 5B.8: Proecton of Salaries. Wages, S,ares and Materials Expenses
SALARIES AND WAGES EXPENSES             _     SPARES AND LATAI3ALS EXPENSES
AD  NIST      E          OPERATINGI    TOTAL           CAR X       EOWTH       'OAL
YEAR                                  MAITENANCEE   COST           Km(onth    OF CMR         COST
...... .                       ;        .40(.4       66.3A .  COST    ;1COS7 USS2imi ihnmin Il
1991          42.6%             49.2           86.3       115.4      4.632700      1.000          24.8
1992          38.0%             43.9            66.3      110.2      5,084,550     1.098          27.3
1993          3S.0%             40.4            66.3      108.7      5,112.950     1.104          27.4
1994          30.0%             34.6            68.3      100.9       5,748.267    1.240          30.8
1995           30.0%            34.6            68.3      100.9       6,144.067    1.326          32.9
1996          30.0%             34.6            79.6      114.2       6,144.0M7    1.3261         32.0
1997           30.0%             34.8           70.6      114.2       0,144,087    1.328          32.9
1998          30.0%             34.6            79.6      114.2      6.144,067     1.328          32.9
1999          30.0%             34.0            79.6      114.2      6.144,087     1.326          32.9
2000           30.0%             34.6           79.6      114.2i      6,144,067    1.:26          32.91
2001           30.0%             34.6           79.6      114.21      6,144,067,   1.328          32.9I
(1) Rfers tothe hreof totalwage-bDifor 1991,whIch was smated as 85% ofthe IO90wage-bDldueto labor reduclons madeatthe end oftheyear.
(2) ThIs costwllbe constantuntl the end of1993. In 1994,wagesfor the mairtenancewil Increase (20%and 10% In CBTU-RJand CBTU-SP).
(3) The total expensawifthth llem in lO9Owas the basfor proctions. A 20% and 10% incasswas established (ftr CSTU-RJ and CBTJ-SP) respectively
because 1990 expenses were insufficient The growth of car per km/month was used for the projedons.



- 110 -                                 ANNEX 5B
Page 8 of 8
Table SB.7: Depreciation Cost Estimates
FI-iX-E]D -A   SSIETS            TOTAL COST  JUSEFUL LIFEI ANNUAL DEPREC X.
I(US$ THOUSAND)   (YEARS).  COST (U$ :1CO'-)
A- Stations & Buildings
stations (93)                                     154,000          50              3,080
buildings (240)                                    25,040          50                501
restaurants (4)                               _      180           25                  7
subtotal                          179,220                           3,588
B- Infrastructure                                      . .
Infra/superstructure (540/207 Km)                 193,050          30              6,435
walls (337 Km)                                     67,400          50               1,348
bridges & passageways (17,500 m)                  41,403           50                828
subtotal                          301,853                           8,611
C- Rolling Stock
carbon steel electric trains ( 51)                528,500          30              17,617
inox steel electric trains (175)                1,050,000          40             26,250
subtotal                         1,578,500                         43,867
D- Workshops
buildings                                          28,060          50                561
equipment                                          16,420          20                821
subtotal                           44,480                           1,382
E- Electrification                           .                          .
substations & distribution network                95,755           40              2,394
aerial network                                     44,600          25               1,784
subtotal                          140,355                           4,178
F- Telecommunication
transmission (242 Km)                              75,625          20              3,781
radio stations (750)                               15,240          10              1,524
telephone extensions (2,264)                        2,467          23                107
station sound systems (70)                           560           10                 56
subtotal                           93,892                           5,469
G- Signalling                                      210,000           20             10,500
TOTA L                           2,548,300j                        77,594



- 111 -                                 ANNEX 5C
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
1.    Since the main objective of the proposed project is to increase the capacity offered by the rail
suburban system, it is expected that a substantial percentage of the passengers now carried by bus
will return to their original mode of transportation, that is, rail. This is especially true for passengers
who live within walking distance from the stations, who switched to bus because, in the last five
vears, the capacity offered by the trains decreased considerably. However, it is not so obvious for
those passengers who are not within walking distance. Nevertheless, it is estimated that in the Rio
de Janeiro metropolitan area, by project completion, 500,000 pass/day will return to the trains and this
will represert about 1840 less bus trips per day. Many positive environmental impacts are expected
to stem from this reduction in bus services, given their present negative impact on the air quality, noise
levels, traffic congestion, road accidents. Other positive impacts are the effect of the rehabilitation
of the rail system on passenger safety at the stations, on the land use around the right of way and the
decrease in fatal accidents resulting from lack of fencing of the right-of-way.
2.    The impact on air quality is due to reduced emissions produced by the buses which will be
removed from circulation, or which will have their route-km. shortened because they will be feeding
the trains rather than running parallel to them. The impact on air quality was estimated at US$9.3
million/year for the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan area. The impact on noise levels is also due to the
removal of buses, where the vehicles are noisy and when bunched together, cause very high db levels,
which hardly allow people to chat at normal voice levels on the street. This impact was quantified at
US$3.2 million/year. The impact on traffic congestion was also estimated at US$ 13.8 million/year in
and is mainly due to the lower waiting time for commuters using their automobiles and buses and also
due to the savings in fuel consumption since the vehicles consume more when they are idling. It is
estimated that the savings due to fewer accidents are US$4.0 million/year. In addition, the fencing
of the right-of-way is expected to decrease the number of fatal accidents involving people who are
constantly trying to cross the right-of-way. References CB1 8-1 9-20 of the Project File (Annex 6)
describe the unit values used to quantify the benefits and costs.
3.    Benefits which were not quantified are those related to the improved living environment which
will result from safer and cleaner stations in Rio, crossovers from the sidewalks to the stations, space
for queuing up at the wickets, ramps for the handicapped and, in some cases, modal integration with
taxis, buses and private automobiles. Other non-quantified benefits are those related to the structuring
effect of a revamped rail system which will attract housing in the surrounding areas. Furthermore, real
estate development in the air space above the stations and on land owned by CBTU is also expected.
Other non-quantified benefits relate to the lesser stress which the road system and congestion will
impart on the road users and the better ambience expected in trains where, at present, people have
to travel in inhuman condition. Lower trip times and faster home-to-work trips will also have a positive
effect on the rail users' welfare.
4.    The proposed physical rehabilitation of the system is not expected to have negative impacts
on the environment. Most materials used will not affect nature, the contractors will be responsible for
proper disposal of waste materials, the earthworks are mainly in CBTU's existing right-of-way and there
is no expropriation. Wooden ties will only be procured from contractors who are allowed by their
national agencies to sell them and wherever feasible concrete ties will be used. The visual impact of
the stations will be minimized with proper architectural designs which will blend with the environment
and the same will be done with the overhead catenary, wherever possible.



- 112 -                                     ANNEX 5C
Page 2 of 2
5.    In short, the environmental impact of the project is expected to be highly positive and even in
the worst scenario, if passenger projections do not materialize, it will still be positive for the RJ
metropolitan regions.
Table 5C.1: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Air Pollution Reduction                                         9.3
Noise Pollution Reduction                                       2.9
Accidents Reduction                                             4.0
Lower Congestion                                               13.8
TOTAL                                               30.3
Source: CBTU, July 1991
Table 5C.2:  ESTIMATE OF REDUCTION OF BUS FLEET
E.               .f mf *4 N:.E ..
Santa Cruz   203      0.330    75   1.18    757    35   31.14   1.98    1.52   499
Japeri      135       0.325    75   1.10    532    38   38.06   2.18    1.37   387
Leopoldina    90      0.305    75   1.15    318    20   27.81   2.90    1.03   308
Belford     72        0.280    75   1.15    234    20   24.63   2.61    1.15   203
Roxo
TOTAL       500                      1.15   18S41    =      =      =       =     1397
Source: CBTU
July 1991
DEM.CAP.     Potential demand that can be captured (000's day).
PART.PIC.M    Moming peak as % of total daily trips.
CAP.ONI.     Bus capacity.
F.R.         Renewal factor for road.
NUM.VIAG.    Number of bus trips to be eliminated at peak.
VEL.ONI.     Commercial speed of competing bus
TRAJ.ONI     Route length of competing bus in km.
TEMP.CIC.    Cycle time of bus.
VIAG/CIC     Number of bus trips during peak
RED.FROT.    Reduction of competing bus fleet.



- 113 -                              ANNEM
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
CBTU
CB1.  Planta Localizagio, etc. - CBTU
C82.  Projeto do Trem Metropolitano da RMBH, Investimentos, etc. - CBTU, 8/90
C83.  Solution for Urban Transportation - CBTU
CB4.  Dados Basicos, RJ, BH, Salvador, Brasilia, Maceio, Recife - IBRD, 10/90
CB5.  Programa de Recupera$io Emergencial do Trem Urbano - CBTU/BIRD I
CB6.  Memdria dos Entendimentos Preparat6rios para a Constituiqlo de um conselho-04/02/91
C87.  Processo de Estadualizag3o - CBTU, 01/29/91
C88.  Anexos ao termo Aditivo - CBTU
CB9.  Revista dos Transportes Pdblicos (Vol. 44, 47, 48) - CODATU
CB1 0. Urban Transport in Developing Countries - Codatu V-SP
CB1 1. National Mass Transportation Plan - EBTU - 07/88
CB1 2. Plano Emergencial Recupera$io Transporte Ferroviario urbano- 07/90
CB13. Linha auxiliar x Prd-MetrO - CBTU, 04/91
CB1 4. Justificativas para meta de 1,200,000 pass/dia - CBTU - 04/91
CB1 5. Nova politica tarifaria, Plano emergencial
CB1 6. Informag8es gerenciais - CBTU, STU-RJ
CB1 7. Situaq5o dos transportes urbanos - TCI, 04/91
CB1 8. Plano de Recupera$3o do trem urbano-RJ, SP e relat6rio do projeto - CBTU
CB1 9. Prog. de recuperac3o trens metrop. RJ-SP, Reiatdrio, Anexo I, Anexo II
CB20. Prog. emergencial de recuperagio do trem urbano - Relatorio, Anexos I e 11
CB2 1. Estudos dos Sistemas de Trens Urbanos - Doc. 1 - Belo Horizonte
CB22.                                           - Doc. 2 - Fortaleza
CB23.                                           - Doc. 3 - Recife-Metrorec
CB24.                                           - Doc. 4 - Recife - Linha Sul
CB25.                                           - Doc. 5 - Jo3o Pessoa
CB26.                                           - Doc. 6 - Macei6
CB27.                                           - Doc. 7 - Natal
CB28.                                           - Doc. 8 - Salvador
CB29. Organigram of CBTU Administration from 5/90 - 7/91
CB30. Draft Financial Policy Study for SNT 5/91
RIO DE JANEIRO
RJ1.  Projeto Melhoria da Sinaliza$3o dos eixos de deslocamento da conferQncia  Mundial de Me!
ambiente - Cia. de Engenharia de Trafego - 01/91
RJ2.  Anuario estatistico do Metrd-RJ - 1989
RJ3.  Pesquisa de opini3o pt3blica, vale transporte - FETRANSPOR - 07/90
RJ4.  Manual para aperfeiioamento profissional dos rodoviarios - FETRANSPOR
RJ5.  Carta do RJ, melhor transporte melhor qualidade de vida - FETRANSPOR
RJ6.  SumSrio da politica urbana, etc.
RJ7.  Veiculo leve sobre trilhos, Tijuca/Penha, proposta impantaQ3o
RJ8.  Plano de transporte de massa, RJ - Relat6rio Parcial I - MetrO - 03/91
RJ9.  Revis3o e Atualiza$3o Plano Integrargo fisico-tarifaria - 11/88
RJ10. Anugrio estatistico 1985 - MetrO
RJ 11. Revisao e atualizaiAo piano integra¢io fisico-tarifaria - 11/88
RJ12. Anuario estatistico 1986 - MetrO
RJ13. Anuario estatistico 1987 - MetrO
RJ14. Anuario estatistico 1988 - MetrO
RJ15. Il o metrO e a reestrutura9lo dos transportes coletivos - MetrO
RJ16. Plano de Integrag8o tarifaria- MetrO
RJ17. MetrO - 7 anos de operaqlo



S                  -  ~~~~~~v
Typical Scenes at Suburban Stations at Rush Hours
-1.~ ~ ~~~~~~~.



o   >   #+.+  X  )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Csrowded Platforms
Tyia CodtoFfPsegr asCretyi  s



'~~~~4  ~ ~   ~  ~~({4~~ ~~            Deteriorated
'~~~w    ~ ~~~  '7 ~~~~Track
*      ~~Mountings
Railhead
Buffer Stop
at Central
Station in
Rio



MAP SECTION



This        , M                                                                                                              BRAZIL
/ efS^°'~s ft s METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
hk                        o                                                                                                             Decentralization Project
BRAZIL    ~~'ad~CBTUJ   Rio, De Janeiro System
pOt Of any  Ban =A
2 \sgomb of tor toy                                                                                                        NEW UNE
C~~~~~JN Iu  S t                                                                                                                                      SrM
AMERI                                                                                                                                          CMs - c ROJECTSENMS
U                                                                                                                                              - e  O   CBTU PROJKG FASSENCGER SW1NS
OCN                                                 J                                                                                  _ ROA D
AM- eRCDU E                                                              LAM
~ I' <)                                    'D C                          j5  3|m
NOVA IGUA(U                HOV ,4'/                                        -       °°J/   
_~~~~~~~~F   _  40                                                                                                    ITABORZA! 
-X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  5G10  1SL20
SEPETIBA  SAY_                                                                                                                              KM*M 
2    _                                     \C  ~~~~~~~ OCE 0
_cI



