Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22930
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36330; SCL-3633A)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 128.5 MILLION
TO THE
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 17, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Real R$
R$1.0 = US$ 1.20-0.50
US$1 =  R$.83-2.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1, 1994   December 31, 2000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMTU-RJ                      Metropolitan Agency for Urban Transport of Rio de Janeiro
BACEN                        Brazil's Central Bank
CBTU                         Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
CBTU-RJ                      Rio de Janeiro Subdivision of CBTU
CAS                          Country Assistance Strategy
CONERJ                       Rio de Janeiro State Ferry-Boat Company
CPI                          Consumer price index
CTC                          Rio de Janeiro State Bus Company
ERR                          Economic rate of return
FLUMITRENS                   Companhia Fluminense de Trens Urbanos
GDP                          Gross Domestic Product
GOB                          Government of Brazil
METRO/RJ                     Rio de Janeiro Metro Company
NPV                          Net present value
RFFSA                        Brazilian Federal Railways
RJMR                         Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region
RTCC                         Regional Transport Coordination Commission
SAR                          Staff Appraisal Report
SUPERVIA                     Concessionaria de Transportes Ferroviarios S.A.
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jorge M. Rebelo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 I
6. Sustainability                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  12
9. Partner Comments                                                                 15
10. Additional Information                                                          21]
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                23
Annex 3. Econoniic Costs and Benefits                                               25)
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                   29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.                       _






Project ID: P006547                                       Project Name: RIO DE JANEIRO
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Jorge M. Rebelo                              TL Unit: LCSFT
[ICR Type: Core ICR                                       |Report Date. December 17, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN                    L/C/TFNumber: CPL-36330;
TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT                            SCL-3633A
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: TU - Urban Transport
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/21/90                                Effective: 03/01/94            03/01/94
Appraisal:  07/15/91                                  MTR: 07/15/95              02/10/96
Approval:  06/29/93                                Closing:  12/31/97            12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: FED.REP.OF BRAZIL/CBTU
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          Shahid H. Husain
Country Manager:     Vinod Thomas                               Armeane Choksi
Sector Manager:      Danny M. Leipziger                         Gobind T. Nankani
Team Leader at ICR:   Jorge M. Rebelo                           BrAs Menezes and Jorge M. Rebelo
ICR Primary Author:   Aymeric-Albin Meyer; Jorge M.
Rebelo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The broad objectives of the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln.3633-BR)
were to lay the foundations for the financial, institutional, and organizational policy changes, required to
achieve sustainable integrated multi-modal transport in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region. The
specific objectives of the project were to: (i) support the Federal Government in its efforts to transfer the
Rio de Janeiro subdivision of the Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos (CBTU-RJ) to the State of Rio
de Janeiro to enhance its management and operations; (ii) introduce institutional, organizational, and
financial policy reforms to ensure its long-term financial sustainability, including cost-efficiency gains,
improved multi-modal integration, expanded capacity and substantial reduction in subsidies; and (iii)
contribute to poverty alleviation and environmental improvement by facilitating access to job centers,
decreasing travel time to and from job centers, reducing congestion, accidents and fatalities through the
provision of safer and more comfortable rail transport.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained the same even after the mid-term review but after the decentralization the project
encouraged the concession of the system to the private sector. During implementation and after the
decentralization objective was met, within the forum created during project preparation to discuss how to
increase the operational efficiency of the Flumitrens system, a consensus emerged on pushing the efficiency
agenda forward by concessioning the system. However, as concessioning of the system was consistent with
the relatively broad project objectives, and with the objectives of the CAS, no restructuring was deemed
necessary.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included an Investment Component (IC) and an Institutional Development (ID) component.
The IC component (90% of the loan) included civil works and goods to implement the proposed
rehabilitation of stations, track, track machinery, workshops, rolling stock, power supply,
telecommunications, fencing of the right of way and construction of transfer points, within stations,
required to integrate CBTU with other modes. The ID component (10% of the loan) consisted of the
development and implementation of policies and action programs to: a) establish organizational, financial
and institutional reforms as a basis for improved cost recovery, including the implementation of a plan of
action for the transfer of those remaining viable CBTU subdivisions to their respective states; (b)
operationalize multi-modal and tariff integration between CBTU-RJ, feeder bus systems and non-motorized
vehicles, introduce long run variable cost based fare structures which reflect peak and off peak services and
to improve targeting of subsidies; (c) identify an investment program to consolidate the rehabilitation and
decentralization in RJ; (d) study and recommend different management alternatives, technical
improvements and financial reforms for improving the operating efficiency of the METRO and the CTC, as
well as similar studies for each of the remaining operating subdivisions including a review of management
contracts and franchising or concessions to the private sector; (e) identify areas to increase private sector
participation in CBTU-RYs operations and (f) provide technical and management training to CBTU
employees as recommended in the organization and manpower development studies, and staff of selected
transport agencies participating in the project.
Project design was adequate to attain the objectives set at appraisal and to further the agenda for more
private sector participation. The capacity of the implementation agency was also adequate to implement the
project and there was a clear learning curve in procurement and supervision, particularly, in rolling stock
rehabilitation. The implementation agency benefitted from the experience gained in the sister project in Sao
Paulo.
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
The components remained the same with minor adjustments to reflect the concession of the system to the
private sector.
COMPONENT                           COST                    RATING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND EQUIPMENT                  $258,876,991                   S
POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL DEV                  $ 13,043,009                  HS
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was satisfactory for the following reasons: a) the project was consistent with the CAS,
government priorities and Bank safeguard policies; b) the project's main beneficiaries were the low-income
populations of the Baixada Fluminense, one of the poorest areas of the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region;
c) there was an extensive technical and economic evaluation of the project; and d) most of the assumptions
and risks estimated regarding external factors were reasonable.
Although the present quality at entry procedures were not in place, this project underwent several internal
reviews to assess its technical feasibility and economic viability. Several experts from TWUTD were called
in to provide their inputs and accompany the identification mission. During Project identification and
preparation the project team engaged in a constructive debate with the Borrower regarding the role of the
Bank. In the end, it was decided that the World Bank role as "honest broker" between the GOB and the
State was crucial for the decentralization process because of the lack of trust between those two parties.
The project team made a strong case that this project provided a unique opportunity to jump-start the
restructuring of the urban transport sector in Rio, support the transition of CBTU-RJ (later Flumitrens) to
become a more cost-efficient and user oriented operation, and improve linkages among transit modes.
Project preparation was satisfactory as it forced CBTU to reenergize its staff and evaluate options from an
economic, technical and financial standpoint instead of a purely political standpoint. A comprehensive
technical, economic and financial evaluation of the project was carried out by senior staff and senior
consultants. The SAR provides an in-depth analysis of major issues in the sector and addressed the
probable risks that were likely to occur at the time, e.g. insufficient political will for increasing tariffs, the
timely availability of government funds to CBTU, and procurement delays. The mitigation strategy that
was proposed for minimizing procurement delays was at that time innovative-having the bidding
documents ready before effectiveness - but could not have foreseen that the changes in currency and
National Procurement law would cause so much confusion.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The ICR assesses the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (3633-BR) as
satisfactory.
The broad project development objectives of "laying the foundations for the financial, institutional and
organizational policy changes required to achieve sustainable integrated multimodal transport" were
substantially achieved. The decentralization objective , i.e., the transfer of the ownership and operation of
the system from the Federal to the State Government was achieved as planned. The institutional,
organizational and financial reforms to ensure long-term financial sustainability, including cost-efficiency
gains were also substantially achieved. The physical rehabilitation of the system poised the system for
improved multimodal integration. The safer and more reliable system also contributed for reductions in the
travel time to and from job centers for the low-income population of the Baixada Fluminense and for less
accidents and fatalities.
-3 -



Nearly all of the decentralization objectives were successfully completed ahead of schedule. The Federal
Government expeditiously enacted the necessary supporting legal and regulatory framework for
decentralization and completed the transfer of the Rio de Janeiro commuter rail system to the state
government. In turn, the state government promptly established Companhia Fluminense de Trens Urbanos
(FLUMITRENS). CBTU has since followed up the decentralization of its operations in Rio de Janeiro with
similar projects in Belo Horizonte, Recife and Salvador. The physical condition of the urban commuter
system in Rio de Janeiro is in markedly better state as a result of the project, especially with the addition of
the rehabilitated trains and the completion of the station renovation works. The completion of project civil
works have improved service provision and have led users to upgrade their opinions regarding the
reliability of urban commuter rail systems.
Despite implementation delays caused by lack of counterpart funds, the results achieved by the project were
impressive and, on the institutional side, went beyond all expectations. These accomplishments include the
following: (i) decentralization of the CBTU-RJ subdivision from the Federal Governments to State of Rio
de Janeiro and the creation of a new company, FLUMITRENS, to operate the transferred assets; (ii) The
subsequent concession of the FLUMITRENS system to the private sector (Concessionaria de Transportes
Ferroviarios SA -SUPERVIA); iii) undertaking of a serious effort to promote modal integration, through a
Regional Transport Coordination Commission (AMTU-RJ), where the State, the Municipality of Rio and
other municipalities and all operators are represented; and (v) rehabilitation of 55 trains and 19 stations,
telecom and electrical systems and improvement of track infrastructure
4.2 Outputs by components:
Some of the results achieved by the project particularly on the institutional component are remarkable:
(i) full decentralization of the CBTU-RJ subdivision from the Federal Government to State of Rio de
Janeiro and the creation of a new company, FLUMITRENS, to operate the transferred assets; the
decentralization included the transfer of ownership and the responsibility to manage the system, and was
free of any debt or labor liabilities incurred prior to the transfer;
(ii) the subsequent concession of system operation and maintenance to a private company, SUPERVIA.;
(iv) the establishment of AMTU-RJ to promote modal integration and discuss metropolitan transport
issues;
(v) a study to evaluate options to concession out FLUMITRENS and the Rio de Janeiro Metro to the
private sector in 1999; and
(vi) a study to devise financial mechanisms for the sector.
We examine in detail three of the main institutional outputs:
Decentralization. This main project objective was achieved in full faster than originally scheduled.
Completing the transfer process ahead of schedule represented a major achievement given the legal
prerequisites and complicated negotiations that were involved. The transfer process was initiated in March
1994 with the signing of the Decentralization Agreement, which defined the general terms of the transfer of
CBTU operations in the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region to the State Govemment. To ensure that the
- 4 -



decentralization initiative was in accordance with the 1988 Constitution, a national law was enacted to
permit the transfer of federal assets to local governments. This requirement was met with the passage of the
CBTU Asset Transfer Law (8693/93) in August 1993, mandating the eventual transfer of all operational
urban rail assets within CBTU to their respective state and municipal governments. This Asset Transfer
Law amended the prevailing legal framework to permit the transfer of federal assets to local governments
and mandated the eventual transfer of all operational urban rail assets within CBTU to their respective
state government. As part of the transfer negotiations, the Federal Government compensated the state of
Rio de Janeiro for the additional subsidies that the latter had to incur due to implementation delays, and
agreed to transfer CBTU-RJ assets debt-free and forgive a 10 year old debt of the State which had halted
construction of the Rio Metro. The decentralization process was fornally completed on December 28, 1994
with the transfer of CBTU and RFFSA rail assets in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region to the newly
created, state-agency, FLUMITRENS.
Subsequently, the State decided, with the support of the studies financed by the Loan, to concession out the
Flumitrens system to the private sector. This concession for 25 years was finally signed on November 1998
and the new concessionaire (SUJPERVIA) took over the operation and management of the system. This is a
major accomplishment because it eliminated the operating subsidy paid by the State and it was only
possible because of the decentralization and the support provided by the loan.
Important Decentralization Milestones:
Date                                      Achievement
June 1993       Approval of Project by the Bank.
July 1993       Establishment of FLUMITRENS through State Law 2143/93 (Rio de Janeiro State).
August 1993     Enactment of the Asset Transfer Law by the GOB (Law 8693/93).
March 1994      RFFSA Management Boards approve transfer of their respective shares and assets to
CBTU.
March 1994      Signing of Decentralization Agreement by the Federal Government and the State of Rio
de Janeiro.
September 1994  Signing of an Amendment to the Decentralization Agreement.
December 1994   Signing of the relevant legal documentation and completion of the transfer of
FLUMITRENS to Rio de Janeiro State government.
Modal Integration. The main step towards modal integration was the establishment of the Agencia
Metropolitana de Transporte Urbano do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (AMTU-RJ) which was created as a
forum for discussion of urban transport policies and investments on December 17, 1997. This forum which
included representatives of the State, Municipality of Rio and other municipalities and operators continues
to meet regularly to date, therefore surviving the change in state administration, which bodes well for its
sustainability. It discussed modal integration altematives and new projects. It did not have deliberative
powers because neither the Governor nor the Mayor would delegate them, but at least for the first time, it
promoted an open forum for the discussion of the issues in the sector and provided guidance and
recommendations to the decision-makers. This agency is still functioning today now with a new State
administration, which means it has survived political change. The main problems with achieving better
modal integration were threefold: i) The delays in rehabilitating Flumitrens fleet would preclude any serious
modal integration until the railway was sure that it could provide reliable service. This took at least 3 years
longer than expected because of the delays in train delivery by the rolling stock contractors; ii) The strong
bus cartel which has a powerful legislative lobby and is reluctant to integrate unless tariffs are maintained
at the same level. Reluctance of both Municipal and State Governments to force the cartel to enter in
- 5 -



competitive bidding and force integration; and iii) the inflexibility of the mayor of Rio in changing the flat
tariff for the municipality, preventing distance-based arrangements which would facilitate integration.
Despite all these problems, the project was a pioneer in pushing the modal integration agenda. Flumitrens is
integrated with the Rio Metro, some municipal buses and some intermunicipal buses. One can clearly state
that the project laid the foundations for modal integration, identified the bottlenecks but unless the State and
Municipality of Rio force the cartelized bus operation to change, there will be always obstacles to full
integration.
Contribution to poverty alleviation: The provision of a faster, more reliable and safer rail transport
system to the Baixada Fluminense and Zona Oeste of the metropolitan region has decreased the travel times
to and from work for the low-income residents of those areas. According to recent user surveys, this has
become more evident in the last two years of the project since the takeover of the system by the
concessionaire . It is expected that the impact on the low-income population will be more significant as the
system's reliability increases.
On the infrastructure and equipment rehabilitation component the project achieved among others:
(i) rehabilitation of 55 trains and 19 stations, telecom and electrical systems and improvement of track
infrastructure; and
(ii) improvement of safety condition.
Although the project infrastructure and equipment component was completed, there was low train
availability throughout most of the project implementation period, due to a combination of inadequate
maintenance budgets and late delivery of rehabilitated trains. This had a negative effect on ridership and on
the operating subsidy targets set for the project. The low train availability experienced in the first 4 years of
the project was reversed after the concessionaire took over.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Project civil works, which accounted for a total investment of US$309 million to reflect the cost overrun,
yielded a project net present value (NPV) of US$ 174 million, and an economic rate of return (ERR) of
26.2%. These calculations include the benefits of the externalities achieved stemming from project
implementation, e.g., reduced congestion, and improved air quality.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The Federal Government and afterwards the State were paying an annual subsidy of US$120 m per year
for the system. After the decentralization the Federal Government did not have to pay this subsidy. The
State after the signing of the concession does not have to pay the operating subsidy. As such the financial
rate of return for the Federal Government's investment of US$ 309m is quite high.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was outstanding as described above. The project not
only allowed the decentralization of the system but also facilitated through its institutional component the
concession to the private sector of Flumitrens, Rio Metro, CONERJ (ferry boat company) and the
liquidation of the state-owned bus company. These companies which costed an average of US$350m in
operating subsidies to the State, at the end of the project did not require any subsidies. In all cases, the
level-of-service provided to the users by the concessioned out companies is better than before the
concession. Since most of the users of those systems are from low-income households, their accessibility to
job centers and education and health facilities has improved. The establishment of the AMTU-RJ is also
- 6 -



changing the attitude of the decision makers towards modal integration and investment priorities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The factors below were all outside the control of the implementation agency but not outside government's
control.
*   The introduction of a new currency (the Real) with a stronger than expected exchange rate to the
dollar and the approval of a new national procurement law were factors which could not be identified at
appraisal and had to be dealt with causing delays and difficulties in implementation which were
skillfully overcome by a very intensive project supervision effort. This was outside the control of the
implementation agency but was a government decision. The introduction of the Real Plan, and the
strong measures needed to maintain the value of the new currency were factors that could have not
been foreseen at appraisal and slowed project implementation. Although project funds were estimated
in US dollars, contracts with national contractors were denominated in local currency, which raised
abruptly the value of those contracts in US dollars when the new currency was introduced. This
explains most of the project cost overrun.
-   The project experienced a lag of nearly one-year between loan approval and effectiveness and there
were difficulties associated with the establishment of a special account in a commercial bank, the first
time that this was being done in Brazil. This was again beyond control of the implementation agency
but under the control of Government which allowed a protracted discussion of this issue by its Attorney
General office.
*   The approval of a new national procurement law caused confusion.Although the use of Bank
Procurement Guidelines were allowed there are conflicts between them and the National law. This was
exploited by some local firms which were not awarded contracts to delay signing of contracts and force
new bids.
*   The restrictions on the amounts provided as counterpart finds by the Borrower imnposed an additional
burden on the implementation agency. These budget restrictions which would also include the Bank's
loan proceeds were explained as an effort of the Government to comply with ceilings on capital
expenditure in order to meet primary surplus targets. They were responsible for most of the delays in
the last two years of the projects and some of the cost overrun because of contractor's claims for
payment delays.
Although the project infrastructure and equipment component was completed, the delays mentioned above
and particularly the low train availability throughout most of the project implementation period, due to a
combination of inadequate maintenance budgets and late delivery of rehabilitated trains, had a negative
effect on ridership and on the operating subsidy targets set for the project. The initial delays between loan
approval and effectiveness plus the delay in setting up a special account in a commercial bank (the first
time that this was being done in Brazil) had a negative effect on project implementation and were primarily
responsible for part of the extension of the closing date. Furthermore, the introduction of a new currency
(the Real) with a stronger than expected exchange rate to the dollar and the approval of a new national
procurement law were factors which could not be identified at appraisal and had to be dealt with causing
delays and difficulties in implementation which were skillfully overcome by a very intensive project
supervision effort.
-7 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Introduction of the Real. The introduction of the Real at a 1:1 exchange rate with the US dollar and the
strong measures used to maintain macroeconomic stability served to eradicate hyperinflation, increase
foreign reserves, and establish the foundation for private sector growth. As a result of these measures, CPI
inflation decreased from 2,668 percent in 1994 to about 6.5 percent in 1997. The Real Plan also marked a
swing in income distribution in favor of the poor, through the disappearance of the inflation tax and
through higher real wages. These accomplishments, required drastic adjustments in relative price levels and
in local attitudes in relation to inflation. Project funds and component costs were estimated in dollars, while
contracts entered with local companies were enumerated in local currency. The costs of these contracts
increased abruptly relative to the dollar, especially for goods and civil works, leading to modest project cost
overruns. Similarly, the cost structures of the project contractors increased due to higher wage and
subcontractor costs.
The other significant impact of the Real Plan was on passenger demand. To demonstrate the GOB's
commitment in maintaining a stable currency, BACEN imposed very high interest rates, which tightened
credit and discouraged economic activity. From 1994 to 1996, GDP growth slowed from 5.8 percent to 2.9
percent. Much of this decrease in economic activity resulted in the loss of employment, especially among
low-income workers who had less need to commute to job centers. Concurrently, the GOB imposed a
two-year moratorium on price increases for public sector services to encourage price stability. In meeting
this requirement, FLUMITRENS opted to raise tariffs to more than twice forecasted levels-a decision that
was partially based on concems that inflation would persist at historical rates. The higher tariffs
constrained passenger demand, as transport costs, especially those for individuals who did not receive the
"vale-transporte", constituted a larger portion of daily income. "Vale- transporte" is a federal-mandated
transport subsidy which employers are supposed to provide to those employees whose cost of
"home-to-work" trips exceeds 6% of their salary. They deduct 6% of the salary and provide the difference
to the employee which in effect pays only up to 6% of their salaries for the "home-to-work" trips.
Changes in Procurement Legislation. Although identified during appraisal, procurement difficulties were
experienced during the initial phase of the project, which delayed project implementation. The passage of
Law 8666/94 and Decree 1411/95, changed national procurement rules for civil works, goods, and
consultant services, and altered the duration of bidding stages. These modifications required the Borrower
to make the necessary adjustments for contracts under bid affecting all Bank projects in Brazil. The
enactment of this legislation also led to additional implementation delays, as firms not pre-qualified would
utilize the lack of historical prncedents with the new law to challenge the bidding in the Federal courts,
claiming that Bank procurement guidelines could not be used. The first court decisions upheld the use of
Bank procurement guidelines for Bank financed-projects, reducing the number of challenges to awarded
contracts.
Initial Delays. Loan signing was delayed four months after board approval and effectiveness did not take
place until nine months after Board approval. These delays had a ripple effect on project implementation,
especially for civil works, which were completed 1 to 2 years beyond their respective completion dates. In
addition, BACEN, Fazenda, and Procuradoria were slow in authorizing the opening of the project accounts,
as this was the second project in Brazil that used commercial bank instead of the Central Bank. This
situation created delays in processing of project disbursements.
- 8 -



Inadequate Maintenance Budgets. The difficult macroeconomic conditions during this transition period
also impacted the fiscal position of both the national and state government, which slowed the allocation of
the necessary financial resources for both CBTU-RJ before decentralization and FLUMITRENS to carry
out routine maintenance of track infrastructure and rolling stock equipment. FLUMITRENS physical
infrastructure continued to deteriorate and passenger demand remained constrained. This situation was
compounded by the following factors: (i) the Real Plan and the subsequent imposition of high interest rates,
which led to higher debt service costs; (ii) the reduction in tax revenues once economic growth started to
slow in 1995; and (iii) increases in public sector wages between 1994-95. The consolidated operational
balance of the GOB worsened from a surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP in 1994 to a deficit of 4.8 percent of
GDP the following year. These factors had an even greater impact on the fiscal position of the state
government. Flumitrens never really obtained funds from the State to address its maintenance backlog,
resulting in lower train availability and improved service levels. The risk of insufficient financial
allocations to FLUMITRENS was discussed at appraisal. At the time, it was considered that the state
government would be able to meet the full financial needs of FLUMITRENS based on: (i) the small budget
surpluses that had been generated in the five years prior to the project; and (ii) maintenance for the
transferred assets would require only 3 percent of total fiscal expenditures. Delays in the delivery of the
rehabilitated trains also affected the operational performance of the system. Passenger trains broke down,
frequently, the track, signaling, telecom and power infrastructure and stations were in poor condition,
which resulted in causing frequent service disruptions and severe overcrowding of trains between
segments. The decision of the State to concession out FLUMITRENS and the subsequent take over by
SUPERVIA were quite beneficial because train availability increased considerably.
Untimely Provision of Counterpart funds: In the very beginning of the project and later on after the
change in the Budget Law, the project experienced a restriction in counterpart funding which added to the
delays of the project. The main problem was that after the change in the Budget Law, all funds regardless
of the source (including Bank loan funds) were included in the budget process. Furthermore, the fact that
they were in the budget was not a guarantee that they could be released because Treasury would either
delay or not allow some of these funds to be spent.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Delays in the delivery of rehabilitated trains: Although most of the delays were essentially related to
poor performance of the suppliers who executed the contracts, the implementation agency was, at first, lax
in the quality control of the basic components of the rehabilitated trains. Later on, pressed by the Bank
missions, the implementation agency corrected the quality control aspects and undertook a tighter
supervision of the processes and facilities where the trains were being rehabilitated. The day-to-day
monitoring adopted in the three last years of the project helped in correcting the situation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The actual total project cost at closing amounted to US$311.38 million compared to the appraisal estimate
of US$271.92 million, a 14.5% cost overrun. The cost overrun in the counterpart funds was mainly due to
the introduction of the Real and the sudden appreciation of contracts that had already been signed in local
currency and later on due to the delays in implementation caused by the restrictions in counterpart funds
mentioned above. As the Real started to devalue to an exchange rate of 1:1 with the US dollar and
continu-d its devaluation, cost overruns were contained in the contracts signed after the introduction of the
Real. The Federative Republic of Brazil funded the cost overruns completely. The Bank financed 41% of
the project as compared with the original estimate of 47.2% mainly due to the cost overrun. The Bank
financing percentages for each category were not substantially affected.
-9-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The transfer of CBTU-RJ operation and assets to the state Rio de Janeiro, the concession to the private
sector, the completion of rolling stock and track infrastructure modernization works, and the reduction in
fare evasion are factors that bolster project sustainability.
The decentralization of the FLUTMITRENS system appears to be irreversible because of its importance to
the State which is at present investing in it under the ongoing Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit loan to fulfill its
part of the concession contract. The rehabilitation of rolling stock and track infrastructure arrested the
deterioration of the FLUMITRENS commuter rail system, increased train availability, improved service
levels, and has prompted a recovery in daily passenger levels.
Since the system was concessioned out to the private sector, the question is whether the private sector
concession is sustainable. After doubling the number of paying passengers/day from 150,000 to 320,000,
SUPERVIA is now dependent on the modal integration and a bigger fleet to surpass the 500,000
passengers/day. The modal integration will require government intervention if the bus cartel doesn't accept
to integrate freely. The provision of rolling stock should not be a problem because it is part of the ongoing
Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit Loan. This increase in fleet is critical because it will reduce the headway at
peak-hour, a major determinant of the success of the modal integration with buses. So the chances of the
sustainability of the concession will depend on the financial results which depend on the demand growth.
This in turn is dependent upon the modal integration with buses which require government intervention.
The modal integration with buses started recently after a lot of negotiations. Supervia has been able to trim
its costs and is almost breaking even. However, it complains about the delays of the State in fulfilling its
obligations. We should conclude that the sustainability of the project is likely because decentralization is
likely to be irreversible. If the concession of the system is not sustainable with the present concessionaire,
the State will attempt to concession it again to the private sector because it has arrived at the conclusion
that the State should not be operating the system but instead regulate it and if necessary extend it.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This item is not applicable here because the rail system was always in operation during the project
implementation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project team engaged in a constructive debate with the Borrower regarding the role of the Bank. In the
end, it was decided that the World Bank as "honest broker" would be best poised to assist the GOB in the
decentralization process. The project team made a strong case that this project provided a unique
opportunity to restructure the rail transport sector in Rio de Janeiro, support the transition of CBTU-RJ
(later FLUMITRENS) to become a more cost-efficient and user oriented operation, and provide with this
project the stepping stone for the eventual concession of the rail system to the private sector. Also the
location of the rail system in the Baixada Fluminense, one of the poorest areas of the RJMR was important
in the decision to support the project. All these points became a reality. Project preparation was satisfactory
as it forced CBTU to reenergize its staff and evaluate options from an economic and financial standpoint
instead of a purely technical standpoint. During project appraisal, a comprehensive technical, economic and
financial evaluation of the project was carried out by senior staff (including an urban planner, a transport
- 10-



economist and planner and a railway engineer) and senior consultants in rolling stock and systems. The
SAR provides an in-depth analysis of major issues in the sector and addressed the probable risks that were
likely to occur at the time, e.g. insufficient political will for increasing tariffs, the timely availability of
government funds to FLUMITRENS, and procurement delays. Both financial and operating performance
indicators were appropriately defined. The weaknesses of the Federal and State governments to provide
maintenance budgets to the systems while the project was being implemented was somewhat
underestimated, particularly in view of the fiscal situation of the country and the introduction of the Plano
Real. So was the strength of the bus lobby in preventing a faster and widespread integration with rail.
Finally, the rehabilitation schedules for rolling stock rehabilitation which had been based on similar
experiences in Brazil tumed out to be very optimistic because of poor performance of both local and
international suppliers. The mitigation strategy that was proposed for minimizing procurement delays -
having the bidding documents ready before effectiveness - could not have foreseen that the most respected
local and international rolling stock contractors in Brazil would experience difficulties preventing the
prompt delivery of the rehabilitated trains. Neither was it expected at appraisal that the New Procurement
Law would be exploited by non-winning bidders to delay awards and seek court injunctions which in the
end were cleared but consumed time.
7.2 Supervision:
Sufficient resources were allocated toward project supervision, which allowed for the constant monitoring
of the project. Supervision comprised of 59.7 staff weeks, of which 11.4 staff weeks (20 percent) were
spent in the field. Supervision missions took place with relative frequency, were small in staff, and lasted a
short duration. Supervision missions intensified during the transition of the system to the State and during
the delays in delivery of rolling stock. Bank staff tended to combine supervision mission with other
missions to the region under the same implementation agent (CBTU), which proved to be very
cost-effective particularly insofar as travel is concemed. The retention of essential project team members
permnitted a high level of vigilance and a comprehensive understanding to guide the Borrower through
implementation difficulties. Supervision was particularly intense in the rolling stock rehabilitation and in
the studies that laid the ground for the decentralization and concession of the systems to the private sector.
Progress reports were duly and timely submitted throughout the project and were very detailed following a
format agreed with the Bank. The audit reports were submitted in general on time as well as the entity
financial statements. There was compliance with all the Bank safeguard policies.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Greater resources were allocated in the first half of the project to assist CBTU in carrying out the difficult
process of decentralization, developing the necessary legal and regulatory framework to undertake the
transfer, and ensuring that the necessary institutional restructuring took place. The Bank was credited for
its role as mediator between the Federal and State Government throughout the transfer process. Bank
support through the procurement of the rehabilitated trains was also crucial in helping CBTU to complete
this task. At the mid-term review, the overestimation of traffic demand was detected and demand estimates
were revised downward with the initial forecast of 1.2 million daily passengers deferred until 2 years after
the project has closed. Subsequent delays in train delivery suggest these traffic targets should have been
deferred 4 years. Although privatization was not part of the original project design, Bank assistance was
instrumental in creating the political consensus for introducing private sector participation and
subsequently concession out the system. Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's participation (through the Ministry of Transport and CBTU) in the preparation of the
project was satisfactory. It supported the Bank team but provided somewhat inflated estimates of historic
- 1 1 -



demand probably because of a very weak system to count the number of actual passengers being
transported. The Borrower changed its view of rail-oriented provider to one of a chain in the link of a
modally integrated transport provider. The Borrower made a tremendous effort to learn Bank Procurement
Guidelines and to study our Standard Bidding Documents. Demand analysis techniques as well as project
economic and financial evaluation techniques were re-introduced in CBTU and that is also a byproduct of
an intensive preparation. The Borrower was also very proactive in meetings with the State, Mayor of Rio,
bus unions and supported Bank missions the best way it could during preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
In terms of project implementation, the Borrower promptly and successfully achieved the critical objective
of the project, the decentralization of CBTU-RJ subdivision to the State of Rio de Janeiro. The GOB
deserves high marks for enacting the Asset Transfer Law (Law 8693/93) and assuming previous debt
commitments. Nevertheless, the GOB failed to provide adequate maintenance budgets in the early years of
the project. Bureaucratic delays relating to the opening of the special account resulted in delaying
effectiveness by nearly one year after project approval. Finally, it did not provide counterpart funds on a
timely basis causing project implementation delays.
The State of Rio de Janeiro should be commended for quickly setting up FLUMITRENS and subsequently
for undertaking the concession of the system to the private sector. However, prior to concession the State
government similarly failed to provide adequate maintenance funds to ensure the train availability, as the
maintenance budget for FLUMITRENS did not reach adequate levels until late 1997. The ability of
FLUMITRENS to carry out and then implementing the recommendations of some of the studies in the
institutional component was also weak.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
With staff training in procurement sponsored by the project, CBTU made a substantial effort to master the
Bank's procurement guidelines and standard bidding documents and is now one of the best implementation
agencies in terms of procurement in Brazil. CBTU was a diligent implementation agent learning very
quickly Bank procurement methods and economic and financial methodologies. CBTU management was
very fast in obtaining approval of the decentralization law and was able to overcome the difficulties
imposed by a new currency and new national procurement rules.
CBTU worked in good faith throughout project preparation and provided substantial logistical support and
the necessary information to appraise the project. However, the economic and sensitivity analyses carried
out by the Borrower was based on flawed assumptions and led to overly optimistic passenger traffic
projections. The total number of passengers transported was estimated by multiplying the paying
passengers by the fare evasion coefficient, which had been undervalued. This analysis proved to be
unrealistic given the physical condition of the infrastructure and the adverse macroeconomic conditions
encountered during project implementation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower and Implementation Agency performances were satisfactory during project preparation and
implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
Decentralization followed by Concession. Although this project has been highly innovative in supporting
one of the first transport decentralization initiatives in Brazil and in the world and has brought service
delivery closer to local needs, the results to date confirmed that decentralization was only the first step and
the stepping stone to privatization. The state government was not much better in managing the urban
- 12 -



transport system than the Federal Government, and at both levels, there were serious delays in allocating
maintenance funds. FLUMITRENS was also vulnerable to political appointments in key decision-making
positions.The State must be commended to quickly realize that to cut the subsidy and offer better
level-of-service it had to concession out the system to the private sector. Improved managerial and financial
performance can be achieved through greater private sector participation through a concession contract,
where improving service provision and increasing user orientation to recover investment costs and enhance
system profitability are the underlying incentives. At the time of appraisal, the idea of concession was not
yet politically acceptable in Brazil, as the national concession law was still being debated in the House.
This is why the concession was not a conditionality of the loan. CBTU management also feared that if the
project required the concession of the system as a loan condition, there would have been substantial
political and labor opposition to decentralization. With a political climate in Brazil more favorable to
private sector participation, subsequent Bank lending operations in the rail sector in Belo Horizonte,
Recife, Salvador and Fortaleza have made private sector participation a critical objective of project
implementation. It is therefore clear that decentralization must be followed by concession or substantial
involvement of the private sector in operations and maintenance of these systems. But having said that, the
concession design must be very carefully discussed and adapted to each case. The present Brazilian
concession law which does not allow negative concessions (i.e. with operating susbsidies) should be
reviewed to allow for that. Otherwise, given the need to maintain the tariffs low to serve the poor, it will be
difficult to attract the private sector. It was a great achievement and a credit to the State that the
decentralization of CBTU-RJ was followed by the concession of FLUMITRENS to the private sector.
Modal Integration, Delays in the delivery of rehabilitated trains and Demand Overestimates:
Integration with buses cannot be taken for granted because the "bus cartel", i.e., the bus unions at the
municipality and state levels are very powerful in the legislature and oppose any integration. While the rail
system was not functioning well, there was no reason to force integration because the level-of-service
offered, particularly the frequency and the reliability, were not good. When the level-of-service improves,
any of the FLUMITRENS/SUPERVIA lines well operated are far better, faster and cheaper than any
competing bus routes. But neither the State nor the Municipality has shown the political resolve to quash
the "bus cartel" opposition despite their agreement to do so. One of the reasons is that bus operators have
25 year "permission" to operate granted by previous administrations under non-transparent conditions. Any
court battle to void these permissions have been won by the bus operators. So, the lesson is that more
iron-clad guarantees should be sought for modal integration. Another factor that affected demand was the
appearance of illegal vans which were not significant at the time of appraisal but started to become a major
force as the formal bus level-of-service declined, partly because of arrogance of the "bus cartel" and partly
because of the adoption of a flat fare by the Rio Municipality. The populist adoption of a flat fare for buses
in the Rio Municipality, which did not exist at appraisal, caused a number of problems for integration,
particularly for the Santa Cruz branch line which is all within the Rio Municipality. The flat fare is seen by
bus operators as an obstacle to create integrated fares which are remunerative for both parties. Mayors
believe that they protect the poor who live further but this is not always the case because they might travel
only within certain zones and have to pay for the total flat fare. So, zonal or distance-based fares are more
in line with modal integration and should be easier to implement with the introduction of the smart card.
Therefore, one should not take for granted modal integration and should encourage the transition to zonal
and distance-based fares. Because the rehabilitated trains were delivered almost 2.5 years behind schedule
and modal integration was taken for granted particularly when the bus/rail combination was better than bus
only, there was a demand overestimation at least in the first years of the project. The availability of
additional trains which are being provided by the ongoing Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit Project if
fundamental to reduce headways during peak hours, decrease the number of passengers per square meter
and provide a good integration with feeder buses. As in the Sao Paulo experience where demand increased
rapidly after the provision of new trains, demand in Rio is also supply driven at peaks. It is therefore
- 13 -



important that the available fleet is at least as big as estimated at appiaisal, i.e., that other than the 55
trains rehabilitated by the project that the other trains in the fleet be available with a high availability rate.
If the State forces the bus companies to integrate as it had initially agreed, demand will quickly reach the
forecasts estimated at the mnid-term review. The experience in the sister project in Sao Paulo showed that
the demand increased from 500,000 at project closure to 1,000,000 passengers/day in 5 years due to proper
modal integration.
Limiting Fare Evasion. In systems where there is substantial fare evasion, it is important to challenge the
base data more vigorously. The impact of fare evasion should not be underestimated, as it has led to
inaccurate- estimates of passenger traffic and operating subsidies required. Eliminating fare evasion is more
complicated than previously expected. Right-of-way separation concrete walls have been broken so that
fare evaders can reach the station area and board the trains and crowds have sometimes become violent
when barred from entering the system without a ticket, resulting in guards being attacked and even killed.
Therefore, this problem should be addressed as early as possible during project irnplementation to establish
the precedents necessary that will strongly discourage fare evasion behavior among regular riders. Station
enclosure, retaining walls, and automated ticketing rnachines have helped to reduce fare evasion slightly
during project execution. These instruments are useful deterrents, and should be incorporated in the
preparation of future projects in the sector. The outsourcing of ticket sales and revenue collection to private
firms, which have success fees based on the number of paying passengers above a certain pre-agreed level,
should also be encouraged. In Sao Paulo, this approach was considered but abandoned because of red tape
and instead 800 security guards were hired. SIPERVIA, the Rio concessionaire, took several steps to cut
fare evasion and is estimating it at about 10% of total paying passengers. But, as expected, the private
sector moves more aggressively to cut fare evasion. The other major problem is the growing number of
passengers who travel free by legislation. Operators should be compensated by the Government for that
otherwise their costs are being paid by the paying passengers through tariff increases, a situation that
increases the burden on the poor.
Whether to Rehabilitate Existing Trains or Purchase New Trains, The issue of whether to purchase
new railcars or rehabilitate existing railcars was heavily debated during appraisal. Due to the lower costs
involved-US$2.5 to 3.0 million for a rehabilitated train as opposed to US$ 10 million for a new train-the
choice was made in favor of the former. Given the difficulties experienced by the private firms responsible
for the delivery of rehabilitated rail cars in keeping the schedules, in retrospect, it may have been preferable
to opt for a mix of rehabilitated and new trains, assumirig that the niew trains would be delivered on time. In
any case, potential delays in train rehabilitation should be factored in the development of future projects in
the sector. Neither the local firms involved nor the international firms who won contracts were able to
deliver the rehabilitated trains on schedule. These delays varied from 12 to 24 months. When the firms that
had been awarded the EMIT contract ran into severe quality control problems of locally manufactured
components, several hard choices had to be made. The possibility of canceling the contract was considered
but eventually rejected. The rationale was that the money and time losses ~si.mning from judicial litigation,
would have led CBTU through a protracted 'period of negotiations. Alk the time, it was unclear if the
renovation of the trains would be cornrleted at all. The supervision was tightened. the monitoring was
beefed-up and the quality control was s engtrhered. This approach proved to be successful in the end
through intense supervision, continuous moniotoring and implementation of penalties by the implementation
agent.
'14 -



9. Partner Conmments
fa,i Bvrrg 9we', zrn.pIenwnzr3irg agency:
CBTU - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Loan Agreement No 3633-BR
Brazil
Introduction
The Federal Government, in its capacity as country wide operator and administrative agency for
the existing urban rail transport networks, and in compliance with constitutional rulings establishing that
local authorities are to be responsible for the management and operation of urban transport, developed the
Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Program to implement the transfer of said networks to their
respective local administration authorities. The World Bank was asked to support the program with a loan
and has been participating in the Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro projects, and more recently in the projects
for Belo Horizonte, Recife, Salvador and Fortaleza (Stage 2).
The Project was submitted to the IBRD in October, 1990, and had its final version approved in
June l 993.
Project Objectives
In October, 1993, CBTU, the Government of the State of Rio de Janeiro and the Brazilian
Federal Governmnent signed a US$ 128.5 million Loan Agreement, LN-3633-BR with the World Bank,
with a US$' 143.5 million counterpart to be supplied by the Federal Government, for a total project cost
of US$ 272r million, for the services of rehabilitation, construction and acquisition of materials and
equipment necessary for the rehabilitation of the Rio de Janeiro Urban Rail Network, comprising D.
Pedro It. Deodoro, Barao de Maua/Saracuruna, Deodoro/Santa Cruz, Deodoro/Japeri e D. Pedro
iI,/3elfhrd Rexo corridors, and the preparation of studies aimed at the institutional and managerial
develo-ument of sawe.
The program had the following objectives: (a) to support the Federal Government in its efforts
to transfer the CBTUJ-RJ subdivision to the State of Rio de Janeiro in order to enhance its management
and operaiions,; (b) to introduce institutional, organizational and financial policy reforms to assure its
long-te.rnn firiancial sustainability (including cost-efficiency gains, improved multi-modal integration,
expanded capacity, arid substantial reduction in subsidies), and (c) to contribute to poverty alleviation
and erivirorm enta! improvement (facilitating access to work, decreasing their trip time to work, the
reduction of congestion, and the reduction of accidents and fatalities through the provision of safer and
more cornfcxtab e. rai3 transport). The Program should contribute to the implementation of a rail mass
public transport sthactural network in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Area, and would gain a higher
share of participation in the public transport market, by providing high quality services, specially to the
low income population.
- 15 -



The development of the CBTU-IBRD RJ Project can be considered of great importance to
permit CBTU to accomplish its mission of promoting the transfer of the urban rail networks. The
implementation of this project served as reference for the design and implementation of other
decentralization projects in, Belo Horizonte, Recife, Salvador and, more recently in Fortaleza, Stage2.
Experience Gained in the Implementation and Results Obtained
The project was developed in two broad components: the physical component, comprising the
execution of a set of works, services and the supply of materials considered vital in order to rehabilitate
the Rio de Janeiro Rail Transport Network, so that the new operating agency could operate the system,
at the same time as it would be in a position to be able to expand the network in the future, and the
institutional component, intended to furnish a set of techniques in the areas of administration, finance,
operation and expansion of urban transport networks that would contribute to the development of the
network operation to the new operating agency.
During the initial stages of the Project, institutional activities were developed by the
Government of the State of Rio de Janeiro, such as the formation of FLUMITRENS - Companhia
Fluminense de Trens Urbanos, in July, 1993, and by the Federal Government, such as the approval and
sanction of Federal Law no 8693/93, authorizing the transfer of the administration of urban rail
transport networks to the states and the convening of the General Meetings for the transfer of CBTU
shares to the Union, and later from the latter to FLUMITRENS. This set of institutional activities
resulted in the celebration of the transfer of the Rio de Janeiro urban rail system from the Union to the
State of Rio de Janeiro and the beginning of the administration of said network by FLUMITRENS , in
December, 1994.
The program was expected to be implemented in four years (1993 to 1997), and had its
completion date set for December 31, 1997, which was later extended by three one-year periods, which
changed its completion deadline to December 31, 2000.
The main reasons for the implementation of the program to have been extended to a further 36
month period were as follows:
- institutional issues that resulted in a slow-up for around 8 months between the date set for the
beginning of the services (June 30, 1993) and the effective date of the beginning of the
services (March, 1994);
- institutional issues that caused delays to the process of transfer of CBTU to the State.
Amongst the latter, the approval of Federal Law no 8693/93 for the decentralization of the
urban rail transport services which resulted in longer periods of time for the implementation of
the necessary "legal/administrative framework";
- issues in respect of the mode of procurement of the supply of track materials, which at the
time established that the supply of materials for the permanent way upgrading services would
be the object of specific bidding processes other than the bidding processes for the execution
of the services themselves. Despite the managerial planning, said procedure has brought about
various encumbrances to the Project management, such as, for instance, the absence of
bidders for certain materials; difficulty in obtaining import forms, etc.. These facts were
- 16 -



contributing factors to the delay and even impossibility to carry out some services part of the
track rehabilitation sub-program;
- legal issues arising out of the approval of the new Bidding Processes Law no 8666/93, of June
21, 1993, that led to the review of all existing bidding documents and contracts at the time so
that they would be in accordance with the new law, which was also altered with the issuing of
Law no 8883, of June 08, 1994;
- commercial issues in respect of the rolling stock sub-program, due to the market stagnation at
the time and consequent delay in obtaining domestic suppliers response to the new demand
arising out of the Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo Projects, which compromised the length of
physical and operational targets;
- institutional issues that resulted in delayed implementation of the Project as a whole, due to
successive reviews on the scope and type of some of the Bidding Processes that were
requested by the various administrative groups, to which FLUMITRENS was subjected after
being formed;
- legal and commercial issues due to the conversion of contracts to the new Brazilian official
currency, the Real, from July, 1994, demanding the extension of deadlines for completion.
Also, the deterioration in the rail network physical-operational conditions due to the absence of
investment since the eighties, the alterations in the urban transport market due to the lack of an
inter-mode integration policy, and the explosion of the informal transport services since 1994, and the
adoption of a common fare for road transport (bus) in the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro compromised
full attainment of the targets set in the Rio de Janeiro Urban Rail Transport Network operational and
financial areas.
The loan agreement comprised, as the criteria for project performance evaluation, operational
and financial targets to be met throughout the period of project implementation. The attainment of said
targets was based on the intention to provide greater capacity in terms of passengers carried, which can
only be achieved if a higher number of trains are made available. Yet, the rolling stock sub-program -
the rehabilitation and updating of 55 EMUs - was the one which contemplated object proved to be the
most difficult to achieve. Domestic rail industry capacity was, at the time the project was being
implemented, highly shaken by the almost complete absence of investments in this area. It came to light
that this industrial section is finding it very difficult to meet contract commitments in terms of deadlines
for supply, which caused a very long delay in delivering EMUs to service. In parallel, and due to the fact
failure to replace the rolling-stock within the estimated target-for increased transport availability, and
the consequential drop in safety and reliability of the services associated to the fare-prices reduction due
to the adoption of the common fare at the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro gave rise to the failure to meet
the higher demand initially contemplated. If we were to make an appraisal of the Project as a whole, we
would see that only at this time, with the completion of practically all of the civil works, confidence in
the credibility of the system is being regained, and the targets set in the Agreement are closer to being
met. This can already be seen in respect of increased number of passengers carried, which points
towards a tendency to recover.
Due to its original features, the program has represented a new policy model for the
administration of mass transport, with the development, during its course, of all methods and procedures
to implement the required legal/administrative model required for the development of similar Projects
- 17-



being implemented by CBTU in the other networks currently under its administration, including with the
support of the World Bank in several of them.
Bank Perfonnance
This was the second Project in which CBTU and the World Bank acted as partners. This latter
entity has always shown a very high level of interest and desire to cooperate in the development of the
Project from the initial identification mission of the Metropolitan Rail Transport Decentralization
Project to the preparation of the Staff Appraisal Report.
After signing the Loan Agreement and during the course of the program activities and up the its
Date of Completion such interest was made evident by:
- updating courses, seminars, talks and support materials to CBTU and government entities
members in all decision making areas;
- periodic project supervision missions following-up on project development, spotting errors,
recommending corrections, implementing the necessary intervening actions or cooperating in the quest
for solutions, as well as acknowledging what was right, so that it could be adopted as recommended
procedures;
- prompt allocation of funds, whenever requested and justified by evidence, fundamental for the
company to be able to meet its financial obligations with suppliers and consultants, which certainly
provides the needed tranquillity for the administration of any type of project.
For all the above support given to CBTU, as shown by effective actions, our appraisal of the
World Bank performance can only be highly satisfactory.
There are another three projects in progress in partnership with the World Bank:, that is Belo
Horizonte, Recife and Salvador, in addition to the Fortaleza Project (Stage 2), under its final negotiation
stages. CBTU is of the opinion that, based on the support shown to the Rio de Janeiro project, all of
these projects have a good chance to succeed.
Borrower Participation
In the World Bank appraisal, submitted in the SAR, the main risks involved in the program
were as follows:
i - delays in the dialog among the three levels of government;
ii - the political reluctance to increase the fares, compromising the working ratio;
iii - possible delays in bidding processes;
iv - the availability of counterpart funds.
The risks mentioned in (ii) did not materialize, and the Project superseded the contemplated
targets. Insofar as (i) is concerned the integration between the three levels of government, although not
formal due to political reasons, took place in an informal way between the Federal Government, via
CBTU, and the State of Rio de Janeiro, through Flumitrens. This attitude of cooperation was made
possible due to the CBTU Project and the World Bank's persuasive powers. The risks describe in (iii)
are shown be delays basically during the 1993/1994 period, and have been eliminated since than.
- 18 -



In respect of the availability of counterpart funds, risk described under (iv), this only occurred
as contemplated up to de end of 1998 when, in view of the problems that occurred regarding the entire
world's economics, the Federal Government was forced to adjust domestic economy with drastic
reduction in the availability of resources in all spheres of Federal investments. In parallel, here was an
substantial exchange rate devaluation of the Real, in January, 1999, which aggravated the unbalance
between World Bank installments pid-in and those for the counterpart, observed in 1998, which position
has recovered in part along the years of 1999 and 2000.
We must note that the capacity of the train network to start its rehabilitation at the same year as
the start of Project implementation (1994) was overestimated. The level of programmed intervening
actions was very high and, in order to meet the targets set, it would have been necessary to implement a
larger overall number of program actions.
Program Results Evaluation
An overall evaluation of the program depicts the level of attainment of the object thereof, as
follows:
- support to the Transfer of CBTU-RJ to the State of Rio de Janeiro. With the approval of law
no 8693/93 which comprised the rules for the decentralization of urban rail transport in the country, and
the development of the program that has been helping and guiding the implementation of the entire
legal/political/administrative set of tools required, and that has permitted the implementation of the
process of decentralization of the entire urban rail network.
- the effective transfer of the services in a way that had never been seen before in Brazilian
public administration history, without discontinuing the services offered to users, as had already
happened in respect of the IBRD/Sao Paulo Project.
- the implementation of the new operating company - FLUMITRENS - with a dynamic and
flexible operational structure designed to meet the needs of the newly created institutional management
policy in which the operation of the services by concessions or in partnership with private enterprise are
targets to be met.
- recommendations on the possibilities of concession of the metropolitan rail services in the
RJMR, based on the development of initial studies seeking to establish a new company, commercial and
institutional effort observing the transport section legislation and the prevailing economic conjuncture.
- the concession of the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Rail Transport Network's Operation and
Maintenance to the private enterprise area, brought about on November, 1998, at the exception of the
non-electrified section between Niteroi and Visconde de Itaborai, and between Saracuruna and Vila
Inhomirim.
- arresting the network deterioration process, with the investments in infrastructure, system and
rolling stock, which permitted the rehabilitation of same to be started, with the offer of better quality
transport services.
- the preparation of a plan for the recovery, modernization, reformulation and integration of the
- 19 -



rail networks, as a result of the investments in connection with other actions and intervening external
activities undertaken by the state administration via FLUM1TRENS , with its PET Project that has also
been the object of financing by the World Bank, and by the operators that at the time of the concession
took responsibility for various physical facilities recuperation activities, amongst which are the
remodeling of stations, permanent-way recuperation and the implementation of a minimum of 2
inter-mode integration terminals.
Summary of Benefits, Future Actions and Main Lessons Learned with the Project
CBTU believes that, in accordance with the Federal Government guidelines for the
implementation of the new management of decentralized operation proposed for the urban rail services,
the CBTU-IBRD Project was of vital importance to permit the development of this proposition in a
politically and financially viable way, without losing sight of the need to provide adequate conditions for
the new transferred networks operators to conduct an economically and financially sustainable
operation.
The study of causes and consequences of the errors and of the adequacy of this program are
duly documented, have at times been evaluated to exhaustion, and, therefore, resolved or sometimes
shortcut, and the history thereof has been recorded so that they will not be repeated, at least by this
company administration.
The relationship with the World Bank members was of great importance for the completion of
this project. The experience gained by said personnel in the implementation of large size projects
throughout the world was fundamental for the satisfactory development and completion of the Rio de
Janeiro Project.
We have established and are applying some project administration criteria for future projects
which are lessons learned in the implementation of the Rio de Janeiro project, as follows:
- the adoption of single lots for the procurement of permanent way services, comprising the
supply of materials and services, with a view to avoiding the delays which occurred in this Program;
- the evolution, wherever possible, into turn-key type contracts, which contemplate all services
and supplies necessary for the commissioning of a railway section (infrastructure, track and systems);
- the adoption, at a more sophisticated stage, of the networks transfer model, with private
enterprise participation, using the concession of operation and the injection of funds specially in the area
of rolling stock, considering the expected economic viability and financial sustainability which are
expected of the urban rail services decentralization projects. This is the solution which is being adopted
for the Salvador Urban rail services decentralization effort, currently in progress.
Flavio Mota Monteiro
CBTU/IBRD Project Coordinator
Approved
Luiz Otavio Mota Valadares
CHAIRMAN - CBTU
- 20 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Future Operations The project has supported the development of decentralization initiatives in Belo
Horizonte (BR-PE-65 54), Recife (BR-PE-38882), Salvador (BR-PE-48869) and Fortaleza (BR-PE-6022 1)
and has provided the conceptual framework and important lessons to support the transfer of those CBTU
subdivisions to the States/municipalities and their subsequent concession to the private sector. With Bank
assistance, it is expected that the GOB will complete the decentralization of urban rail services by its
revised timetable of December 31, 2002.
The Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project was followed by the Rio de Janeiro
Mass Transit Project (PET), which will help the State in meeting some of the obligations it incurred in the
concession contract.
-21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  ActuallLatest Estimate
1. Decentralization of the system to the State 1. Decentralization Completed  1. Decentralization Completed
2. Rehabilitation of the infrastructure and  2. Good Condition                2. Good Condition
equipment of the system
3. Increased Participation of the private  3. Some initiatives                3. Concession to the private sector and
sector in operationslmgmt.                                                    several other actions
4. Improve access to work, reduce trip time  4. Improved                      4. Improved in all the lines
and accidents
Output Indicators:
Indicatodi:latrl                    Projected nllastEpsl1                  ActuaViLatest Estimate
1. Passengers transported per day (000's)   1. 896                            1. 363
2. Paying passengers per day (000's)   2. 788                                 2. 330
3. # of trains rehabilitated; km of track  3. 551181                          3. 55/181
rehabilitated
4. working ratio                       4. 2.94                                4. 2.09
5. staff (# of employees)              5. 9,300                               5. 2236
6. fare (us$)                          6. 0.37                                6. 0.40
End of project
Of the 4,293 employees at the time of decentralization Supervia absorbed 1,037. The remaining either
retired or left withl an incentive plan. At this stage Flumitrens still has 1,595 employees who work in the
lines which were not concessioned out to the private sector and are slowly being reallocated to other
government departments.
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a
Project Costs by Components (in US$ milion equivalent)
Project Component        Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
Institutional Strengthening
Project monitoring             1.90                 0.00                  0.00%
Studies                        8.22                 9.80                 119.19%
Training                       0.76                 0.00                  0.00%
Civil Works
Civil Works and Systems       94.60                 94.13                 99.50%
Goods/Materials               28.25                 28.20                 99.81%
Equipment                     11.10                 16.49                148.57%
Mechanical Works              78.80                154.39                195.92%
Supervision                    5.00                 8.38                 167.64%
Total Base Cost                 228.63               311.38                136.20%
Physical Contingency            20.88                                       0.00%
Price Contingency               22.41                                       0.00%
Total                           271.92               311.38                114.51%
Annex 2b
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                        Procurement Method             Procurement Method
Categories                          Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB  NCB Other NBF Total  ICB  NCB Other NBF Total
1. Civil Works and Systems    96.69 21.04             117.73 68.13 30.59             98.72
2. Goods/Materials            30.49  0.16       2.25  32.90  23.82  1.61        2.74 28.17
3. Equipment                  4.52  0.77  1.70  6.43  13.42  1.62  3.39  0.03  10.28 15.32
4. Mechanical Works           83.33  5.82             89.15  148.45  2.71            151.16
5. Technical Assistance                   17.84       17.84              15.66  2.35  18.01
6. Training                               0.89        0.89                            0.00
Total                        215.04 27.79 20.41  8.69 271.93 242.02 38.30 15.70 15.36 311.38
- 23 -



Annex 2c
Project Financing by Component (In US$ million equivalent)
Component            AOpraisal Estimate;    Atual I Latest Estimate    P6erentage of Ap raisal
B4nk 1 Govemnment   ci-   Bank  Government   co-   Bank  Govemment   Cc-
______  ~~i financier                  financlier                 financier
I Civil Works and Systems
a - Rehab. Of P. Way Infras.  3.14   5.77           5.26      9.91          167.5%    171.8%
b - Rehab. Of P. Way      5.29       9.74           3.77      6.44           71.1%     66.2%
Supers.
c - Construction Supers.  0.58       1.08           1.58      2.78          272.6%    258.2%
d - Track Renewal         2.08       3.84           0.00      0.00            0.0%      0.0%
e - Stations             20.40      37.62          20.34     34.08           99.7%     90.6%
f - Workshops             7.24      13.31           0.00      0.00            0.0%      0.0%
g - Inst. Aerial Network  0.09       0.19           0.04      0.84           42.8%    445.1%
h - Inst. Signalling Systems  0.00   0.00           0.42      2.41
i - Inst. Telecom.        0.62       1.14           0.00      0.00            0.0%      0.0%
- Civil Works            0.00       0.00           1.48      4.77
Subtotal Civil Works 39.44    72.67          32.89     61.24           83.4%     84.3%
2 Goods / Materials
a - Rails                 4.33       0.89           2.24      1.05           51.7%    118.7%
b - Sleepers             14.58       3.00          14.66      2.76          100.5%     92.2%
c - Fastenings            6.28       1.29           2.73      0.76           43.6%     59.1%
d - Ballast               0.00       2.32           0.00      2.57                    110.8%
e - Turnouts              0.52       0.11           0.91      0.15          175.3%    144.0%
f - Others                0.13       0.04           0.28      0.07          214.6%    188.6%
Sub-Total Goods / 25.84      7.64          20.82      7.37           80.6%     96.5%
Materials
3 Epuinment
a - Aerial Network        0.40       0.82           0.00      0.00            0.0%      0.0%
b - Signalling            0.00       0.00           0.00      0.00
c - Telecommunications    0.88       1.75           1.57      3.02          178.8%     172.5%
d - Track Machinery       0.00       0.00           0.00      0.53
e - Workshop Machinery    2.40       0.50           0.96      0.24           39.8%     48.6%
f - Locomotives           0.00       6.40           0.00     10.17                     159.0%
Sub-Total Equipment  3.68      9.46           2.52      13.97           68.5%    147.6%
4 Mechanical Works
a - Rehabilitation of EMUs  42.56   44.11          61.31     87.14          144.1%     197.6%
b - Rehabilitation of     2.10       0.30           2.18      0.53          104.0%    178.5%
Wagons
c - Rehab. of Track       3.84       0.52           1.08      2.15           28.2%    411.6%
Machinery
Sub-Total Mechanical 48.49     44.92          64.58     89.81          133.2%    199.9%
Works
5 Technical Assistance
a - Supervision of Invest.    2.61   3.32           3.11      3.71          119.5%     111.8%
Program
b - Project Monitoring    1.47       0.78           0.00      0.00            0.0%      0.0%
c - Studies and Techn.    6.34       3.40           4.23      5.56           66.8%     163.7%
Assistance
Sub-Total Technical 10.41     7.50           7.35       9.27           70.6%    123.7%
Assistance
6 Training                0.60       0.30           0.00      0.00            0.0%       0.0%
7 Miscellaneous                                     0.36      1.20
Total         128.50     142.50         128.50     182.88     0.00 100.0%    128.3% 1
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
DEMAND   DISCOUNT                             NET                        ERR
RATE             PRESENT VALUE
(%  a.a.)          (in US$ millions)
8                    239,75
9                     204,39
10                    174,05
Base Case                11                    147,98                      26,24
12                    125,53
13                    106,19
14                    89,49
15                    75,06              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _
8                    209,02
9                     177,54
10                    150,55
Scenario 2            11                     127,36                      24,88
(-10%)               12                    107,41
From 2002.            13                     90,22
14                     75,40
15                    62,60
8                     178,29
9                     150,70
10                    127,04
Scenario 3            11                     106,74                     23,40
(-20%)               12                     89,28
From 2002             13                     74,26
14                     61,31
1 5                    50,14
8                     147,56
9                     123,85
10                    103,54
Scenario 4            11                     86,12                       21,74
(-30%)               12                     71,16
From 2002             13                     58,29
14                    47,22
____________      1 5                    37,68              _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _
8                     116,83
9                     97,00
10                     80,04
Scenario 5            11                     65,50                       19,87
(-40%)               12                     53,03
From 2002             13                     42,33
14                     33,13
15                    25,23
8                     86,10
9                     70,16
10                     56,53
Scenario 6            11                     44,88                       17,69
(-50%)               12                     34,90
From 2002             13                     26,36
14                     19,04
______                  15                      12,77
- 25 -



CASH FLOW (BASE CASE)
EXTERNALITIES                      DIRECT                                               COSTS
I__        BENEFITS               TOTAL
YEAR RED.  RED.  RED. RED.  RED.  RED.  RED.  RED.                 PERSONNEL  ELET. MATE OTHER  INV. TOTAL DIFF.
CONG. ACCIDEN COSTS COST  COST  BUS  ROAD   BUS   BENE    COSTS  ENERGY  RIAL  COSTS COSTS COSTS  BET.
COSTS COSTS (ENV. TRAVEL WAITIN OPERAT MAINT.  OP.    FITS               COSTS COSTS                       BENEFITS
BUSES         POL.)  TIME G TIME COSTS         CONTROL                                                       AND
______                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTS
1   -0.17  -0.05  -0.11  -0.11   0.51  -0.65  0.00   0.00   -0.25    -4.90    -2.83  -8.09  -2.58  11.22  -7.17  6.92
2   -1.24  -0.36  -0.83  -0.80   0.46  -4.88  0.00   0.00   -5.24    -7.72    -2.83  -8.09  -3.03  34.01  12.34 -17.57
3   -3.03  -0.88  -2.04  -1.95   0.37  -11.94  -0.01  -0.01   -13.54   -11.88   -3.08  -8.66  -3.85  34.26  6.79  -20.33
4   -2.65  -0.77  -1.78  -1.71   0.39 -10.42  -0.01  -0.01   -11.75   -15.49   -3.26  -9.08  -4.53  54.88  22.51 -34.26
5   -7.39  -2.15  4.97  -4.76   0.17  -29.08  -0.02  -0.02   -33.72   -18.65   -3.54  -9.71  -5.19  66.40  29.31  -63.03
6   -4.52  -1.31  -3.04  -2.91   0.76 -17.80  -0.01  -0.01   -19.97   -33.31    -3.73  -10.13  -9.53  16.69 -40.00 20.03
7   -3.17  -0.92  -2.13  -2.04   0.76  -12.48  -0.01  -0.01   -13.78   -33.31    -3.73  -10.13  -9.53  17.98 -38.72 24.94
8   -3.03  -0.88  -2.04  -1.95   0.76  -11.94  -0.01  -0.01   -13.15   -33.31   -3.73  -10.13  -9.53  7.43  -49.26  36.12
9   -2.23  -0.65  -1.50  -1.44   0.76  -8.79  -0.01  -0.01   -9.48    -33.31    -1.87  -5.94  -8.76     -49.87 40.40
10  -1.74  -0.51  -1.17  -1.12   0.76  -6.84  -0.01  -0.01   -7.20    -33.31   -1.87  -5.94  -8.76      -49.87 42.67
1 1   0.11   0.03   0.07   0.07   0.76   0.43   0.00   0.00    1.27    -33.31    -1.87  -5.94  -8.76     -49.87 51.15
12   2.34   0.68   1.58   1.51   0.76   9.22   0.01   0.01    11.51    -33.31    -1.87  -5.94  -8.76    -49.87  61.39
13   5.02   1.46   3.38   3.23   0.76  19.75  0.02   0.02   23.78    -33.31    0.00  -1.75  -8.09       -43.14 66.92
14   7.97   2.32   5.36   5.13  0.76  31.36  0.02   0.02   37.31    -33.31    0.00  -1.75  -8.18        -43.23  80.54
15  11.74  3.41   7.90   7.57   0.76  46.23   0.04   0.04   54.63    -33.31   1.57   1.78  -7.55        -37.51  92.14
16  11.74  3.41   7.90   7.57   0.76  46.23   0.04   0.04   54.63    -33.31   1.57   1.78  -7.55        -37.51 92.14
17  11.74  3.41   7.90   7.57   0.76  46.23   0.04   0.04   54.63    -33.31   1.57   1.78  -7.55        -37.51  92.14
18  11.74  3.41   7.90   7.57   0.76  46.23   0.04   0.04   54.63    -33.31   1.57   1.78  -7.55        -37.51  92.14
19  11.74  3.41   7.90   7.57   0.76  46.23  0.04   0.04    54.63    -33.31    1.57   1.78  -7.55       -37.51  92.14
20  11.74  3.41   7.90   7.57   0.76  46.23  0.04   0.04   54.63    -33.31    1.57   1.78  -7.55 -12.14 -49.65 104.28
As investments costs we used the real investment since 1994 to the end of the project, i.e., US$
311.38m, less taxes of 12.68% and multiplied by 0.9 to reflect the economic cost.
- 26-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                        Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/1991                       4   urban planner, transport planner,      S              S
transport economist, railway
engineer
04/1991                       6   urban planner/res. spec, transport     S              S
planner, transport economist,
railway and procurement
engineer, financial analyst, state
finances specialist, rolling stock
engineer, telecom/signalling
engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/1991                       6   urban planner, transport               S              S
planner, transport economist,
railway and procurement
engineer, financial analyst,
state finances specialist,
rolling stock engineer,
telecom/signalling engineer
08/1992                       3   urban planner, transport planner,      S              S
railway and procurement
engineer, lawyer
Supervision
05/1993                        3   transport planner, railway            S              S
engineer/procurement
specialist
09/2000                      1-2  transport planner, railway             S              S
specialists, civil works specialist,
rolling stock specialist
ICR
12/2001                       1    transport specialist                  S             HS
2    railway engineer, transport          S             HS
specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
_________  7 No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   30                           180
Appraisal/Negotiation                       18.4                           54
Supervision                                59.7                           248
ICR                                           9                            27
Total                                      117.1                          509
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
3 Macro policies                          OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
LI Sector Policies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
3 Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
D Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development               * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
3i Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
El Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3 Private sector development               * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU--Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                          OHS OS  OU  OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS   OU  OHU
E Overall                                           OHS OS  O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       O HS O S   O U  O HU
O Government implementation performance             0 HS * S  0 U  0 HU
E Implementation agencyperformance                  0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project, Staff Appraisal Report, Report No.
10936-BR, May 20, 1993.
2. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Loan in an amount equivalent to US$128.5
million to the Federative Republic of Brazil for a Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport
Decentralization Project, Report No. P-5847-BR, May 20, 1993.
3. Relat6rio Trimestral de Acompanhamento, Relat6rio No 29-Relat6rio Final, CBTU, Dezembro 2000
(in Portuguese).
4. Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and IBRD, 1993, CBTU Project
Agreement between the IBRD and Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, and State Project
Agreement between IBRD and State of Rio de Janeiro, Loan Number 3633 BR, October 14, 1993.
5. Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project, Supervision Reports (Forms 590), or
Project Status Reports from October 1993 to December 2000.
6. Elements to support a review of the ongoing CBTU - WBank program projects, Projob Engenharia
Ltda., October 2000.
- 30-



