l ~Z /U' iW 6
taamsnt Of
The World Bank
FOR O0MCIAL USE ONLY
Ripe No. P-5847-BR
oF TME
PRESIDENT OF THE
INERN&TION BL RANK FOR RECONSTRUIO    D D
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
-         X~QA
PROPOSED LOAN
in AN AmU1JNT  QUIVALET To US$128.5 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPMBLIC OF BRAZIL
POR A
RIO BE JlIUIO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTIION PROJECT
1Y. 20, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Rep rt No.:P- 5847 BR    Type: (PM)
Tit e:  RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TWR
Aut or: MENEZES,IB.
Ext,. :39324 Room: I7t37 Dept.:LA1IN
ndouent has a testicted distrbotion and may be wsed b) reipients only in tbe perfonnaoe of
d erofciaul dudes Its contents m not odwe be diosedse vithot World 8 k autorlzatiou-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Cruzoiro (Cr$)
US$1.00 = Cr$ 297.87 (June 1991)
US$1.00 - Cr$2565.00 (Juno 1 992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BC               - Banco Central do Brasil
Central Bank of Brazil
BNDES           - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CBTU             - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Train Company
EBTU             - Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Transport Enterprise
GEIPOT           - Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
GOB              - Governo Federal
Federal Govemment
M.A.S.           - Ministerio de A$5o Social
Ministry of Social Action
MINFRA           - Ministerio da Infra-Estrutura
Ministry of Infrastructure
MR               - Metropolitan Region
Regilo Metropolitana
MRJ              - Govemo Municipal do Rio de Janeiro
Municipality of Rio de Janeiro
MT               - MinistOrio de Transportes
Ministry of Transport
RJ               - Govemo Estadual do Rio de Janeiro
State of Rio de Janeiro
TRENSURB         - Urban train of Porto Alegre
Trem Urbano de Porto Alegre
PIU              - Unidade de lmplementacao do Projeto
Program Implementation Unit
Dlbm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ATC              - Automatic Train Control
ATS               Automatic Train Stop
CCE              - Centralized Energy Control
CCO              - Operational Control Center
EMU              - Electr  Multiple Unit



FOR OMCILt USE ONLY
RIO DE JANEIRO MEFTROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECI
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Federative Republic of Brazil.
Beneficaries:     The Brazilian Urban Train Company (CBTU) and the
State of Rio de Janeiro.
Executin
Agencies:         The Brazilian Urban Train Company (C8TU).
Amount:            US$128.5 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Financing
Plan:                                                  USj million
Bank                                128.5
Fed. Rep. of Brazil                 143.5
Total                               272.0
Rate of
Retum:            43%
Poverty
Category:         Program of Targeted Interventions
Staff
Appraisal
Report             10936-BR, dated May 20, 1993
Map:              IBRD 23133.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be useo by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise oe discwsed v'ithout World Bank authori2ation.



BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table of Contents                                                                     Pact No.
1.  Country Policies and Bank Grou's Assistance Strteov
A.     Historical Perspective and Recent Economic Developments ................       . 1
B.     Political Economy Issuesand Developments         ................. .             3
C.   Brazil's Extemal Environment ....................                                  3
D.     Bank's Country Assistance Strategy           .................. .                5
(s) Country Prospects and Economic Outcome  .......         .................. 5
(b) Main Objectives and IBRD Program of Assistance ......       ............... 5
E.     Summary Assessment .........................................  14
II.  The Proiect
A.     Background .........................................  15
B.   Rationale for Bank Involvement ..................                                 16
C.     Lessons Leamed from Past Bank Projects ............................. 16
D.     Project Objectives ............................................ 16
E.     Project Desciption ...................................... ..  16
F.     The Strategy for Decentralization         ................... .                 17
G.     Project Organizatior. and Implementation       ................. .              1 7
H.     Project Sustainability  ........................................   18
I.     Environmental Aspects ........................................  18
J.     Program ObJective Categories  ....................................  18
K.     Agreed Actions ............................................   19
L.     Project Benefits ........................................  20
M. Risks   ..20
N. Recommendation .......... 20
Annex I ........... 21
Schedule A .......... 23
Schedule B .......... 24
Schedule C ........... 26
Schedule D ........... 27



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TUE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRAUZATION PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$128.5 million to help finance a
Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project in Rio de Janeiro. The loan would be at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of 15 years, including 5 years of grace.
PART I. COUNTRY POLUCIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.    HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE AND RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
2.    Brazil eamed the reputation of being a "miracle economy" in the late 1960's when double digit
annual growth rates were recorded and the structure of the economy underwent rapid change. During
1965-80 GDP growth averaged 9 percent per annum, one of the highest rates in the world. Growth
tapered off after the first oil shock of 1973 but was still very respectable until the beginning of the
eighties, being heavily financed by foreign capital inflows.
3.    The eighties presented a very different picture owing to Brazil's failure to pursue a consistent
and viable adjustment policy. Per capita output barely increased during the decade. After 1982, the
net flow of capital from abroad dried up and investment and savings fall sharply, with the decline
concentrated in govemment savings. Attempts at fiscal adjustment were sporadic and insufficient
relative to the magnitude of the problem. The public sector relied heavily on the inflation tax and the
economy moved from an average monthly inflation rate of 3 percent in the late 1 970s to rates above
20 percent in the early 1 990s.
4.    These high inflation rates significantly hampered the performance of the economy, distorting
relative prices. Social costs wore high because the poor were ill-equipped to protect their income and
assets from erosion in such an environment. Numerous economic packages or stabilization plans
attempted after 1986 did not succeed in e!minating the deficits of the federal and state govemments,
the fundamental cause of Brazilian inflation. As a result confidence in the govemment's ability to
resolve the crisis continued to decline.
5.    Besides the macroeconomic crisis, Brazil also suffered from comprehensive govemment
intervention in the economy. This was reflected in trade restrictions, import licensing and exchange
control, numerous fiscal subsidies, and Government ownership of many manufacturing, services, and
financial institutions. By the 1 980s, the efficiency and resource-allocation costs of this policy were
apparent.
6.    Major policy changes were initiated by the administration of President Collor in 1990.
Noteworthy were a significant liberalization of trade, elimination of restrictions on the import of
computers and related technical equipment, beginnings of privatization and financial sector reforms.
In late 1992, President Collor resigned in the midst of impeachment proceedings and was succeeded
by Vice-President Itamar Franco.
7.    StabRkatbn. President Collar introduced a stabilization program  involving temporary
confiscation of about 70 percent of the assets of the financial system in March 1990. This enabled
the govqmment to obtain a consolidated budget surplus in 1990 largely by reducing the volume of
intemal dobt and the associated interest payments. By 1992, however, this effect had worn off, the
deficit reappeared and the intemal debt started rising. Control over monetary aggregates could not be



*2-
exercised in what became, de facto, a highly indexed economy. Since mid-I 991, however, there have
been no attempts to introduce comprehensive price contro:s.
8.    The government has tried vigorously to restore extemal confidence in the Brazilian economy
through negotiated agreements with all government creditors. An agreement was reached with Brazil's
foreign commercial banks in April 1991 on 1989-90 arrears. An agreement was reached with Paris
Club creditors in February 1992 and followed by bilateral ratification. Finally, in December 1992, Brazil
and the Bank Advisory Committee (BAC; representing foreign commercial banks announced the term
sheet for a Debt and Debt Service Reduction Agreement (DDSR) for $44 billion of foreign commercial
debt. Currently Brazil and the BAC are negotiatino a choice of instruments more balanced than the first
commercial bank offer made in Mamn 1993. Brazil has raised debt service payments to 50 percent
of interest due once the term sheet was signed. An estimated $3.2 billion in enhancement monies is
required to close the deal. The current deadline for the exchange of old and new instruments is end-
July 1993, extendable to end-November 1993.
9.    The govemment concluded a 19-month Standby Program with the IMF in January 1992.
However, only the first purchase has been made under this Agreement. At first, the fiscal target for
the first review was missed and, subsequently, the govemment was unable to introduce a
comprehensive fiscal reform bill in the Congress. The attempt to lean too heavily on tight monetary
policy in the, absence of a strong fiscal adjustment in this period led to extremel-t high real Interest rates
that dampened economic activity. The Standby has not been reactivated. The government has
outlined its general policies and the Congress has approved several additional tax measures for 1993.
However, Brazil still lacks a comprehensive and credible macroeconomic program because of frequent
changes in the federal government's economic team and the absence of consensus among the
executive, the Congress and the states on the extent and distribution of economic and financial
adjustments.
10.   Structural Refoms. In tandem with the attempt at stabilization, the govemment introduced
significant structural reforms in March 1990. The most significant components were trade
liberalization, deregulation and privatization. The adoption of a new Constitution in 1988 after almost
30 years of military rule had a major impact on the management of the economy since it reversed the
trend towards a highly centralized state favored by the military to one of decentralized activities,
particularly at the municipal level.
(a)   Trade
11.  Import prohibitions on close to 1,800 goods as well as most quota restrictions were abolished.
Import control through foreign exchange allocation was lifted. Most preferential regimes for imports
were eliminated. The market reservation law that was in effect for 8 years (preventing imports of most
high technology goods including computers and accessories) ended on October 28, 1992.
Significantly, foreign companies no longer need Brazilian partners to set up plants in the country.
12.   Export subsidies and regulation were mostly eliminated. A program of tariff reduction was
announced in 1990 and by October 1992, the (unweighted) average tariff was down to 17.1 percent.
The maximum tariff, currently 45 percent, will be reduced to 35 percent by July 1, 1993, while the
average will decline to 14.1 percent. According to the MERCOSUR accord, the import duties of all four
members (Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay) on non-MERCOSUR trade will be harmonized by
January 1, 1995. By the same date, tariffs on goods traded within the MERCOSUR zone will be
phased out entirely.
(b)   Deregulaon
13.   A "Deregulation Program" eliminated various domestic production and distribution quotas,
licensing, prior approval of investment plans, and other economic restrictions. It also simplified
business and financial transactions. In general, industry-entry is now much easier. A recently



-3-
approved port deregulation law now permits privatization of certain port services and free, contracting
of labor.
(c}    Privaftatlon
14.   In October 1991, after prolonged legal battles, the administration launched a privatiztion
program largely covering manufacturing enterprises in steel, petrochemicals, and fertilizers. By end
1992, 18 enterprises had been privatized, for a total sale price of $3.9 biliion. The program was
suspended briefly with the incoming administration of President Franco to allow a review of the rules,
but has since been reinstated and two new auctions were carried out in March-April 1993. Extending
the program to cover areas such as utirities, petroleum, banking, etc., where the state presence is large
would, however, require constitutional and other legal changes.
B.    POLITICAL ECONOMY ISSUES AND DEVELOPMENTS.
15.   Since 1991, the govemment has succeeded in preventing hyperinflation and sustained flight
from domestic assets, even in a period marked by political crisis, but the rate of inflation has proved
stubbomly high. Confidence in the govemment's ability to bring about economic stabilization has been
sapped by widespread charges of corruption in the Collor administration and by the belief that powerful
segments of the economy benefit from inflation. This has been compounded by the failure of
numerous stabilization plans.
16.   A strong fiscal effort, with major institutional changes, is a pre-requisite for stabilization. This
effort would require, inter alia, better distribution of the tax burden, improved tax administration,
improved public sector pricing policies and flexible civil service tenure rules. These changes will not
be easy. Brazil has carried out reforms in opening up the economy, deregulating it and privatizing part
of the large state owned sector. It has also progressed in settling the extemal debt and financing
problem. However, without the restoration of macroeconomic stability, sustained investment and
growth will not be possible. The prospects for stabilization are uncertain.
17.   There are elements in Brazil's Constitution adopted in 1988 vwlich make economic management
difficult. For instance this Constitution transfers revenues to the lower levels of govemments but does
not fully clarify expenditure responsibilities thus hampering strong stabilization packages. Forging
economic consensus among a multiplicity of parties created by the representation system of the 1988
Constitution presents an unusual challenge. There are elements in the constitution relating to foreign
ownership, amounts of social security benefits, civil service tenure, taxation, etc., which are probably
not helpful in Brazil's present predicament.
18.   The Constitution is up for revision in October 1993 and can at that time be altered by a simple
majority in parliament. This presents an opportunity to introduce constitutional changes that will
advance fiscal reform, civil service reform, and privatization, but there Is also the fear that as the
Presidential race for 1994 gets underway, changes will be postponed and there will be pressures for
expansionary policies. Brazil's political situation will remain fluid at least until March, 1995 when the
new President has taken over.
C.    BRAZiL'S EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
19.   Brazil's trade pattem  is diversified by geographic partners and export categories.
Approximately 31 percent of exports are to the EEC, 23 percent to the U.S., 8 percent to Japan, and
12 percent to other Latin American countries. Less than a third consists of basic products. This
pattem helps protect Brazil from extemal shocks. If the commercial bank debt accord is concluded,
the vulnerability of the balance of payments to fluctuating interest rates will decrease, since floating



-4-
rate debt will drop from 78 percent to approximately 60 percent of the total. With the revised debt
profile, a 1 percent rise in LIBOR leads to increased interest costs of $627 million to *910 million
annually during 1993-97, depending on the amount of debt that is due each year.
20.    Brazilian concems about the external environment center 3round debt and trade. The issue of
debt has been dealt with above. In trade, the anti-dumping actions and quan"ftative restrictions that
many of its exports such as steel, textiles, footwear and automotive parts face in developed country
markets are a cause of anxiety.
21.    Brazil favors multilateralism and actively participates in the GATT negotiations. It sees its
membership in MERCOSUR as compatible with multilateralism, but is concerned that NAFTA could
affect major exports such as shoes, orange juice, textiles, ethanol, and steel products to the US and
Canadian markets. The stability of MERCOSUR also depends on the successful harmonizing of
exchange rate and macroeconomic policies among the members, and especially the two largest
partners, Brazil and Argentina.
Table 1: Bazil - Selected Economic Indicators
..-,.E.E. .- ,:-  -    .- -. O
Reel Gowthi Ra§t90 -%          1,97      to       1  9.6\i . #O      9$
GDP                                    3.6      -0.1       -3.3      -4.2        0.9       -0.5
GDP per capita                         0.8      -2.2       1.2        -6.'      -1.1       -2.4
Consumption per capita                 0.9      -3.2       2.4        -2.5       1.0       -4.8
Private/Total Consumption (%)         83.7      83 5      83.7       84.3       84.7       84.7
PubliclTotal Consumption (%)          16.3      1 6.5     16.3       16.7       16.3       15.3
Export Volume /                       14.S      17.6    -27.5        22.6        1.8       11.9
Import Volume §J                      -3.8      -0.8      17.0        3.7        8.2       4 -9.0
~alano* f. P.0yint .l$    ,tUa*    _____ .:__ -_ _ _ .__ _
Trade Balance                         11.2      19.1      16.1       10.7       10.6       15.6
Current Account Balance                -1.5      4.4       1.3        -3.2      -1.6        4.7
Direct Foreign Investment              1.1       2.7       0.7        0.6        0.7        2.9
Net Medium and Long-Term Financing§E   3.2       2.1      -2.1       -0.9        -8.0      16.3
Change in Reserves (-= inorease)       -0.7     -1.0 j     0.3        -0.4      A04       -12.6
Grose InvestmenttGDP I%)              22.2      21.2      20.8 |     1'.9       19.0       19.0
Domeosti Savings/GDP (%)              25.4      26.4 |    26.2       227        21.0       23.0
:. .-  -                                          D...-  -          =..   . ... ....,.- - --,:.-.. .   
Total DOD (in $ millions)2/         121,26   114,041   115,096    116,190    116,614    120,998
(of which IMF)                3,938     3,357    2,422       1,820      1,173       760
DODtXGS 2t                            4.22      3.13      2.97       3.27       3.26       3.08
DOD/GDP 2t                           0.380     0.358     0.361      0.360      0.341      0.341
Debt Service (in $ millions) _t     25,274    16,626    17,465     19,837     17,181     11,672
Debt Service/XGS                      0.88      0.46      0.46       0.66       0.48       0.30
Debt Service/GDP                     0.079     0.052     0.063      0.069      0.050      0.033
lnteresttXGS gl (percentages)         33.6      28.4      29.0       31.1       23.2       13.2
Interest/GDP V (percentages)           3.0       3.3       3.4        3.3        2.4        1.6
source: IBGE National Accounts; Central BaTc of Brazil; Ad Wold B1  staf estiates.
1      HIstorioal figures based on ISGE national secounts data, May 1991.
V      Includes IMF.
3t     Growth rates and ratios oalculated using current $ values. GDP beyond 1987 oalculated using current $ values. GOP
beyond 1987 oalculated using 1987 real exchange rate.
_/     Exports of goods and non-factor services.
Inports of goods and non-fact^r sefvices.
it     Excludes IMF. The large 1992 amount Is due to issuanoe of arrear bonds agreed to with the SAC in settling the
interest due from the debt moratorium.
Note:  1992 data essumes maintenance of the 1991 real exchange rate.



-5 -
D.    BANK'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
(a)    Country Prospects and Econonic Outcome
22.    h__.tkof Ec    nno ia Oin,n.  It is difficult to be optimistic about shoft-run growth.
Currently, the ratio of investment to GDP (measured in constant prices) has fallen to 1 S percent, from
about 23 percent in the seventies. Sustained growth, led by investment, will occur only after clear
signs of success with stabilization. However, Brazil's dynamic private sector has been restructuring
to deal with a more open trade regime. Trade reached a record $15 billion surplus in 1992 with
exchange rate policies that have been conducive to exports. If the trend in trade liberalization is
maintained, the privs.ization program is strengthjned, and a coherent macroeconomic policy package
is adopted, confidence in the economy should return. If the commercial bank debt agreement is
consummated, then a surge of new investment is likely over the longer term. Accordingly, orovided
a successful, adjustment effort is undertaken, long-term growth prospeots for Brazil are promising.
Growth projections are given in Table 2 (Reform Case).
23.   If, on the contrary, stabilization attempts are unsuccessful, and Brazil fails to generate a
substantial surplus in the fiscal accounts and to bring the monetary aggregates under control, and if
the crowding out of private investment continues, then medium-term growth in per capita income will
not follow. In this scenario it is even doubtful whether some of the extemal advances such as the
proposed restructuring of the debt could be sustained, while poverty and social indicators would slip
further. Projections are not provided for the low case since it is impossible to predict the behavior of
macroeconomic variables in such an environment.
Table 2: Bra - Growth ProJections. 1990-2000
R-EORM CASE
GDP Growth Rate t%)  -4.2    0.9   -0.9   0.0   0.0   2.0    4.0    6.0    5.0   5.0   6.0
GDP/Capita Growth Rate
1%)                  -6.1   -1.1   -2.8   -1.9  -2.0   0.0    2.1    3.0    3.0   3.0   3.1
Consurnption/Capita
Growth Rate M%)     -2.6    1.0   -4.8   -3.1  -3.3   .1.2    1.8    3.5    3.2    3.0   2.3
Source: IBGE National Accounts data and World BSrk staff estimates.
p Historical figures based on ISGE National Accounts data, May 1991.
(b)    Main Objectves and IBRD Progran of Assistance
24.   Dagkngrad. Given the size and complexity of Brazil's economy and the nature of political and
economic decision-making, fundamental reforms to resolve the economic crisis will have to emerge
from the body politic. However, the Bank can make catalytic contributions through innovative lending
in selected sectors where reforms are promoted, through strengthening of the existing portfolio and
through its economic and sector work.
25.   Lendin Leveso [nd Creditwoldngess. It is not possible to predict the govemment's response
to the current macroeconomic instability. Consequently, the Bank is planning an annual lending
program of $500 million to $1 billion. Lending would consist entirely of investm. loans for poverty
alleviaton and human resources, the environment, agriculture and infrastructure (Table 3). Actual
lending will depend upon sector and project conditions and the likelihood of projects being implemented



-B.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
despite macroeconomic difficulties. The maior
sectoral objectives are summarized in Annex I on  Tae 3: Bnzail -      otLdof   h, FW9446
Page 21. Under this program  tne  Bank's
exposure to Brazil will decline. If and when                                      P
Brazil adopts a credible macroeconomic program   Povety A aon aod Human              40
and establishes a track record of consistence      Resources
macroeconomic policies, there would be a basis
for an upward revision of the program and for    Eavrom   t (including ueban water   34
considering suitable adjustment lending.           ptojeots) and Agricultre
26.   In relation to  Brazil's economy, its      Infrastructue                       26
external debt and extemal debt service are not   urce. world Dan mu estiate.
large. External debt is aiound 34 percent of
GDP and interest due is projected to be below 2
percent of GDP. The Bank's share in Brazil's external debt is relatively small and its exposure to Brazil
was 7.4 percent of its portfolio at end-1992. Brazil's export eamings are projected to be adequate for
debt service. The fundamental issue is the management of public financ )s and the role of the state.
The risks to the Bank stem, therefore, from the possibility of a further dete.ioration in public finances.
The Bank is engaged in a sustained dialogue on the broad issues of economic management, sectoral
policies and institutional reform. It will maintain an extensive program of economic and sector work
as a contribution to the Brazilian Govemmsnt's own formulation of economic policy. The
creditworthiness ratios are in Table 4 and are within the Bank norms.
Table 4: Brazil - Creditworthiness Indiceators
ICRD DS/Exports                   4.9       4.4    3.9    3.6    3.2    2.8       4.5
IBRD DS/Pubiic DS DUE             17.6     19.2   18.0   15.3   13.6   13.0      20.0
Prfd Cred DS/Public DS DUE 11    29.4      27.5   21.6   24.4   19.6   17.6      35.0
Souroe: World Bank staff estimates.
DI     Preferred creditor debt sorvice includes interest service on par bonds and discount bonds to be issued under the terms
of the commercial bank debt agreement. The bonds are assumred to be Issued in early calendar 1994.
{i}    Arass of Spoel OperaVenal Emphasi
(a)    Poverty Aleviation and Human Resouce Davelopment
27.   Poverty reduction is a central focus of the Bank's assistance strategy for Brazil. Despite its
high per capita income, Brazil's economic stagnation during the 1980s aind early 1 990s and a very
skewed income distribution have left an estimated 60 million Brazilians (40% of the population) living
In conditions of poverty. Further, despite relatively high spending on social sectors, Brazil's social
indicators (see Table 5) remain far worse than in many Latin American countries: an infant mortality
rate of 58 per 1,000 live births as compared to 20 in Chile and 18 in Costa Rica; the lowest primary
school completion rate in South America outside of Bolivia; and a secondary school enrollment rate
(39%) well below the average for Latin America (55%). Bank sector work has documented that a
major reason for this is that social spending Is not well targeted to those most in need and that great
inefficiencies exist in the financing and management of social services. The govemment has recently
asserted that poverty alleviation and the social sectors are its highest priorities. However, It has not
yet presented a coherent program to address these issues.



^7-
28.   The Bank's poverty strategy in Brazil is three-pronged: first, to encourage adoption of
macroeconomic policies that will stimulate broad-based growth and increase labor incomes; and
second, to carefully target basic social services to the poor, to combat ill health, increase skills and
eliminate illiteracy and malnutrition, and third, to improve access of the poor to basic municipal
Infrastructure, including ptublic transport. The Bank's dialogue with the govemment Is focused on
encouraqing Improved targetrig, better organization, management and quality of basic services,
encouragement of private initiatives, and an efficient and enforced regulatory framework, particularly
in health, education, and urban development.
Table 5: Brazl - Selected SocWa Indicators
254s0            16-20        Most recente*tt-f to
Yets ago         Yeats  eg      __ _ __ _ __ _
Population Growth Rate I%) (1989-90)        2.8               2.4               2.1
Ufe Expectancy at Birth (years)            67.1              61.0              66.2
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 lIve births)  103.6              83.8              67.5
Adult Uterb , Rate                          e6                74                81
Primary Net Enrollments 1%)                16                 71                84
Primary Schoo' Completion Rate I%)           ..               ..                37
Secondary Gross Enrollments 1%)             18                28                39
GNP Per Capita (4, 1990)                   270               1070             2680
Souroe: Social Indicators of Development, 991-9 ; Adult LiteracyRte - -esources in Latin Arerica, 19sS; Primary
Net Enrollment Rate, 1992 WDR; Secondary Gross Enrollment Ratee, Brazil Seconday Education Report, 1992;
Primary School Completon Rate, MEC Anuardo Estatsfitco. 1991.
29.   In the health and education sectors, states and municipalities are emerging as the foci of new
initiatives in accord with the decentralization defined under the 1988 Constitution. In tandem with this
new structure much of the Bank's dialogue and lending are shifting to states and the Bank is working
with the federal govemment to redefine its role, focusing on strategic functions such as norm setting,
quality oversight and redistribution and financial transfers to improve equity.
30.   EducaIon has surfaced as a priority for both federal and state govemments, in part due to the
Bank's role in encouraging the adoption of difficult but necessary policies and initiatives to improve
education quality, particularly at the primary level. One project has been recently approved by the
Board and the other is being prepared, both covering the nine Northeast states, to improve primary
school quality and increase the efficiency of education sector management. An ongoing primary
education project in the state of Sao Paulo is supporting expansion of pre-school and primary school
access in slum neighborhoods and evaluating the cost-efectiveness of new educational approaches.
It is serving as a model and stimulating de.nand for similar investments in three other states which will
launch primary education projects in FY94/95.
31.   In health, states and municipalities are taking an increasingly important role under
decentralization. Four ongoing projects support the expansion of basic health services in the
impoverished Northeast, and anti-malarial campaigns and other preventive health measures in the
Amazon and the Northeast. A nationwide AIDS Project currently under preparation will address the
rapidly-growing problem of sexually transmitted diseases in Brazil. Our dialogue with the govemment
in health emphasizes policy reform at the federal and state levels, hospital upgrading and reform, and
strengthening of basic health services (including female reproductive health information and matemity
services in low income and underserved areas). Other priority areas for possible Bank assistance are
child care and nutrition programs targeted to low-income children.
32.   In urban development, the Bank is shifting focus to the N.E. States to assist state and
municipal govemments target basic infrastructure services more effectively to the poor, and better
manage the decentralization of other services. Four successful projects in the S.E. have reinforced the



-8 -
viability of such projects. Another project in Minas Gerais has recently been negotiated. In urban
transport special attention is being given to improving these services which are almost exclusively used
by the poor.
33.   In agrcutur and ural employment, Bank strategy aims at a change in the policy framework
to be neutral regarding labor intensity. The strategy also stresses improvements in tarueted rural
poverty alleWlatin programs, which are being incorporated into the redesign of the Northeast Rural
Development Program in nine Northeast States. This program Is drawing on lesso;.., from successful
targeted poverty programs in Brazil and elsewhere In the region. This redesn crystallized during a
visit organized by the Bank for Northeast State governors and Federal officials to Mexico to learn about
the SOLIDARIDAD program in that country. Under the redesign, the program will encourage poor rural
communities to organize themselves and will put technical and financial resources at their disposal for
projects which they decide are priorities, Including water supply, rural education, health services, other
infrastructure, and productive projects.
(b)    Environment
34.   NaXfal Resoures. Brazil is endowed with abundant and diverse natural resources ranging from
timber to farmland, minerals and fossil fuels. The country encompasses a wide range of bio'-ass from
tropical rain forests in the Amazon basin and the Atlantic Coast, the vast to semi-arid thorn forests of
the Northeast, temperate regions in the South and coastal and marine ecosystems along the coast.
Brazil is one of the most biologically diverse countries in the world. In recent years, these natural
resources have come under increased pressure from users due to the expansion of farm and pasture
land, mining, urban and transport development and other causes. Local populations of indigenous
groups living in isolated or frontier areas with traditional land extensive subsistence technologies have
likewise corre under pressure. The Govemment of Brazil is increasingly concerned about the
management of these resources, the implications of agricultural and other policies on their use and the
welfare of the people living in affected areas, especially in so-called "fragile" ecosystems. Intemational
attention and concem have also been focussed on these areas.
35.   In October 1988, faced with mounting criticism of its Amazon policy, the Brazilian Government
launched an emergency program (Noss. Natureza) for the protection of the Amazon and other
threatened ecosystems. In 1989, a new consolidated environmental agency, IBAMA, was created to
coordinate environmental protection under a Presidential Secretariat, recently transformed into an
Environmental Ministry (MMA). The Federal Govemment has revised its regional fiscal ircentive
programs, particularly in the Amazon, to prevent degradation of primary forest and other ecosystems.
The Federal Constitution of October 1988 established concurrent responsibility for environmental
regulation between the -ederal and State Govemments. Most of Brazil's 27 States now have
environmental agencies, although these range from highly structured, well staffed organizations le.g.
in Sao Paulo) to nascent agencies in the North and Northeast with little staff and no developed
program.
36.   Similarly, analytic work on the Brazilian forestry sector will provide a broader context for the
preparation and appraisal of forestry projects under the G-7 Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian
Rain Forest. A forestry sector study will also examine economic and environmental tradeoffs of
different reaulatory approaches, appropriate differentiation of plantation from native forests, credit and
taxation policies.
37.   The Federal and State Governments are now moving forward on a number of fronts including,
Inter alia, state-level programs of agro-ecological zoning in Mato Grosso and Rondonia States both in
the Amazon region (with support from World-Bank loans).
38.   hWvi.nItSI Institdions. The Bank's goal is to assist Brazil in transforming policies which
encourage degradation of the environment and promoting institutQnal development needed for



-9 -
environmental protection. Its strategy is to seek to identify ways to allow and encourage vigorous
agricultural and industrial growth, while at the same time strengthening institutions and initiatives that
will preserve the environment and reduce rural poverty. Forthcoming economic and sector work will
focus on decentralization and environmental protection in Brazil's federated system.
39.   A major reformulation of the National Envirc imental Project will seek to determine how
environmental decision-making at the State level can be strengthened; and how public policy, private
enterprise and environmental protection can best be brought into alignment under different economic,
environmental and political conditions in Brazil.
40.   Industral Pollution. Less prominent internationally are Brazil's serious problems with industrial
and urban pollution. Brazil's population is more than 70 percent urbanized and the urban poor suffe,
disproportionately from the effects of pollution. Brazilian heavy industry is concentrated around a few
poles where ambient pollution has sometimes reached intolerably high levels. The air of cities like Sao
Paulo and Rio is severely polluted from automobile and industrial emissions, and there is scarcely a
major city in Brazil that has an adequate pure water supply and sewage system serving the entire
population. The sanitation problem has been exacerbated in recent years by outbreaks of dengue fever
and cholera which have water-bome vectors.
41.   The Bank's strategy with respect to industrial pollution is a) to help establish a pollution control
system that incorporates economically efficient incentives to reduce pollution; and b) to strengthen the
State Environmental Protection Agencies (SEPAs). In addition, two Industrial Pollution Control projects
are under implementation, and a project to reduce pollution caused by the operations of CVRD, a large
parastatal mining company, is also under preparation. The Bank is pursuing sector work to advise the
govemment on the establishment of an efficient incentive and enforcement framework to reduce
industrial pollution.
42.   Watw and Urba Sector. Recently several states have initiated major urban water basin clean
up programs, with necessary policy reforms (i.e., adequate user charges for goods and services which
reflect the "polluter-pays* principle). The Bank has supported these programs through Water Quality
and Pollution Control Projects in three of Brazil's most urbanized states with serious water pollution
problems, Sao Paulo, Parana and Minas Gerais.
43.   The Bank's FY94-96 lending operation in the water and urban sectors will be focused on
addressing urban pollution problems of improper collection treatment and disposal of solid waste,
inadequate sewer systems and unhealthy water systems. In addition, the problems of air pollution are
being addressed through the design of urban transport projects.
44.   Altogether, the Bank has nine projects under implementation and nine projects under
preparation that have a primary focus or significant component focussed on environmental protection.
45.   GEF Assisted Proects. The Bank is also preparing three projects for funding under the Global
Environmental Facility and Montreal Protocol. One of these will support an experimental gas turbine
power plant utilizing biomass fuels. Another projb .. wvill support investments designed to reduce or
substitute for ozone-depleting substance use in Industry. A third project will support a National
Biodiversity Program and Trust Fund to develop a national biodiversity conservation strategy and to
engage states, municipalities and the private sector in innovative biodiversity protection schemes with
the potential for long-term financing.
(c)   Private Sector Deveopment and Public Sector Reform
46.   Brazil's strong and dynamic private sector has been handicapped by poor economic policies and
distorted incentives. Recent reforms have eliminated many of these distortions. Much of this reform
program was supported by past Bank sector work (on trade policy, industrial regulation, and



-10-
privatization, for instance). Today economic instability is without doubt the major barrier to the growth
of the private sector. Instability - high and variable inflation and abrupt changes in macroeconomic
policy - has direciiy affected the private sector by creating uncertainty. It has also had powerful
indirect effects. This is most evident in the virtual collapse of intermediation between private savers
and investors (both because of uncertainty and because of crowding out by the growth of public debt
and by the borrowing needs of financially-distressed state-owned enterprises). In addition instability
has led to an increasingly onerous taxation system (as governments have tried to fi new revenue
sources), while the financial disarray of the government is resulting in a severe deterioration of the
infrastructure services on which the private sector relies.
47.   The Bank's first and most important support to developing the private sector will continue to
come through its advice and technical assistance on fiscal reform and monetary policy leading to
stabilization. Redefining and reducing the role of the govemment will have powerful fiscal effects and
is part of the operational strategy in all sectors. This involves advice and technical assistance that will
lead to better management or divestiture and to a better regulatory framework. Many projects
emphasize cost recovery and the reduction of subsidies and budgetary transfers, for example: tariffs
in telecommunications, power, water supply, and urban projects; water charges for irrigation; and
market-based interest rates in agricultural credit. In addition, forced-savings and directed-credit
programs and the substantil controls exercised by publicly-owned banks over financial flows stand
in the way of a freely functioning financial market. The Bank has provided technical assistance on
banking reform and is examining aspects of the social security system and pension funds.
48.   Inflastructu. The govemment has undertaken several key initiatives to reduce the role of the
federal government and increase local responsibility for infrastructure provision as well as allow greater
scope for private sector participation. First, the political and fiscal decentralization reforms brought
about by the 1988 Constitution have enhanced the importance of local govemments so that
municipalities (and in some cases states) are now responsible for financing and defining priorities for
water, basic sanitation, local and urban transport. Second, the federal govemment has begun
reviewing its role in other key infrastructure sectors, such as ports, where a recently-passed law breaks
monopolistic labor arrangements and provides for competition and market pricing of services, and
telecommunications, where tariffs have been reformed and altematives for increased private sector
participation are under review. Draft legislation setting out guidelines for concession arrangements
with private operators (for 'non-strategic" infrastructure) is pending Congressional approval. State and
local governments are also increasingly examining options for delegating some services to the private
sector (e.g., water supply, solid waste collection, etc.).
49.   The Bank's fundamental objective with respect to infrastructure is to increase the efficiency
of infrastructure investments. The Bank supports the Govemment's efforts to focus on rehabilitation
and maintenance of existing infrastructure before commitment to new network expansion; initiatives
to promote competition, private sector involvement and appropriate regulatory arrangements; and
recent decentralization reforms to strengthen public sector management at the local level.
50.   Env. While Brazil has one of the best developed and most reliable pu.blicly owned electric
power systems in Latin America, the financial position of the sector has deteriorated over the past 15
years due to low tariffs (controlled by Govemment for political and short-run anti-inflationary reasons)
and lack of incentives to operate efficiently. Tariffs in the electric power sector are the lowest they
have been in 25 years. As a result investments have fallen to the point where power shortages are
now expected by 1996. However, a recent law ended the nationwide tariff equalization system, and
may lead to substantial tariff increases. In addition, draft legislation on public concessions and
electricity could lead to opening up the sector services to private investment. (Currently, 98% of the
sector is owned and operated by state -owned enterprises.)



X-11v
51.   The hydrocarbons sector is essentially a monopoly of Petrobras; the govemment controls all
trade in hydrocarbons and sets domestic prices. There are significant distortions in domestic prices,
as they are not linked to intemational prices.
52.   The Bank's assistance strategy in the electric power and hydrocarbons sector is a) to provide
a long-term solution to the electricity tariffs problem by establishing clear rules for future tariff setting.
and a regulatory system that can enforce them; b) to develop a legal, institutional and regulatory
framework with the objective of improving efficiency by promoting competition and private sector
participation, and improving incentives for existing publ.c sector enterprises; and c) to ensure adequate
protection of the environment. Currently the Bank is not lending to the power sector. Resumption of
lending is contingent upon adoption of broad reforms with respect to tariffs, regulation and private
sector participation.
53.   In hydrocarbons, the main potential area for future Bank lending is in natural gas because this
is a relatively underdeveloped energy source and one with substantial environmental as well as
economic benefits. The Bank is currently undertaking sector work on natural gas pricing and
regulation.  Bank financing for the Bolivia-Brazil natural gas pipeline and for concomitant
expansionlestablishment of gas distribution networks is contingent upon establishment of a satisfactory
pricing/regulatory system and majority ownership of the project by the private sector.
(Ni)   Portfolo Management
54.   As of March 31, 1993, the Bank's portfolio in Brazil consisted of 57 projects under
implementation. The portfolio outstanding, one of the largest in the LAC Region, is about $10.6 billion,
out of which $4.7 billion is undisbursedYl This has been a difficult portfolio to manage since the mid-
eighties. In particular, economic instability in Brazil has had a negative impact on project performance.
First, in their several attempts toward macroeconomic stabilization, govemments have periodically
frozen public investments, outside the b.dget cycle. This has led to considerable delays in the release
of counterpart funds for Bank projects. Second, high and variable inflation by itself renders normal
budget implementation extremely difficult, and has complicated procurement and contract
administration. Finally, continuing high inflation and the absence of appropriate tariff adjustments of
public goods and services have led to insufficient cost recovery and eroded the financial position of
public companies.
55.   Another challenge in managing Brazil's portfolio is related to recent decentralization (from the
Federal Govemment to states and municipalities), of education, health, environment, and infrastructure.
Several states and municipalities have weak institutions for project implementation, and no clear
procedures have been established in determining the cost sharing of public projects between federal
govemment and states, and municipal govemments. Therefore, availability of public funds for several
of these projects requires annual negotiations among all levels of govemment involved.
56.   Finally, procurement issues add one more layer of complication in portfolio management, as
the Bank's procedures are in some cases in conflict with Federal and State laws. Often, the resolution
of procurement differences has delayed project implementation considerably, specially for projects that
are managed by the states and municipalities.
57.   The Bank and the Govemment hold two Project Implementation Reviews annually in which, all
these issues are effectively addressed. As a result the portfolio has been improving. While 15
operations were rated "3" and one was rated "4' in FY92, at end-March 1993 there were no projects
rated "4" and only three were in the "3" category.
1/    These are book value figures. The DOD including foreign exchange adjustment stood at
about $7.3 billion by April 30, 1993.



-12-
58.   To ensure strong government support for Bank financed projects, the Bank does not consider
new projects unless they have been reviewed and approved for extemal financing by the Ministry of
Planning. This has helped to establish full agreement between the Govemment's and Bank's lending
priorities, and has signaled Brazilian ownership of projects.
59.   The Bank's approach to managing Brazil's portfolio has been multifaceted. For example, in a
major restructuring exercise, in FY91 and FY92, five projects were cancelled, 14 were modified or
redesigned substantially, requiring Board approval, and remedial action was taken on 14 others. More
recently the National Power Project was cancelled and $93 million remaining on another project
(CHESF/FURNAS) has been proposed for cancellation because of insufficient electricity tariff rates.
In addition, restructuring for the Northeast Endemic Disease Control and Agriculture Extension/Training
Projects will be finalized at the May 1993 Mid-term review, and the restructuring of the Agriculture
Research Project, the Uvestock Disease Control Project, the National Environment Project, and the ten
loans in the Northeast Rural Development Program will be completed in FY94.
60.   To deal with the issue of counterpart funds, the Federal Government has agreed to allocate
funds from the budget directly to the project implementation agency rather than to the ministry to
which the agency belongs. This procedure has the advantage of reducing ministerial discretion in the
disbursement of project funds from the budget. Particular attention in project design and execution
is paid to strengthening institutions at the level of the State and municipality which have primary
responsibility in the social, environmental, and infrastructure sectors.
61.   The Bank has expanded the role of the Resident Mission in supervision (i) by hiring local
consultants to assist regular resident Bank staff in close supervision of the portfolio, lii) by maintaining
a Resident Office in Recife to monitor the Bank's Northeast agricultural and rural poverty portfolio, and
(iii) by opening another office in Cuiaba to supervise and monitor the execution of two large
environmental Projects in Rondonia and Mato Grosso. The Bank has intensified supervision efforts in
the field and at Headquarters in other ways; field supervisions are more frequent, (usually several
projects' supervision is clustered to conserve funds), while problem projects - projects rate "3" or "4" -
- are reviewed monthly by the Director to assess the effectiveness of agreed action plans.
62.   The Bank has introduced mid-year progress review for most of its projects, and extemal
independent auditors are used in all existing projects. In addition the Bank has conducted several
seminars highlighting the requirements and importance of audit and procurement procedures. The Bank
has also developed for its Brazil portfolio a computerized data system that allows easy monitoring of
Covenant compliance. For all new Brazil projects, the Bank requires that the Initial Executive Project
Summaries provide the analytical basis and sectoral experience for their implementation and establish
the key policy issues to be addressed.
63.   On procurement, the Bank and the Govemment have agreed on new federal legislation that it
is now pending Congressional approval. When approved it will greatly enhance project implementation.
In the meantime, procurement issues are being resolved through the introduction of standard bidding
documents to all new projects and the close supervision of the portfolio.
(i")   IFCIMIQA Operatons
64.   IFC's outstanding commitments in Brazil total $604.0 million (end-February 1993), equivalent
to 9.13% of the total portfolio. This makes Brazil IFC's third largest client after Mexico and India. At
the end of February (in FY93), the Corporation had approved six projects for a total commitment of
$116.2 million, and it was probable that an additional $39.0 million in commitments would be
presented to the Board before the end of the fiscal year.
65.   In light of the macroeconomic uncertainty in Brazil in recent years, IFC's strategy has been to
concentrate its investments in first-tier companies with substantial export revenues. For example, the



-13 -
Corporation is currently assisting a number of manufacturing companies in the consumer goods and
machinery industries to modernize and become more competitive in international markets. IFC has also
continued traditional financing of major greenfield projects, particularly in areas where Brazil has an
established comparative advantage such as agro-industries, mining, pulp and paper and textiles. In
order to increase its risk-sharing objectives, most IFC's operations in Brazil include some type of equity
component, primarily in the form of convertible loans or debentures. Although implementation of the
deregulation and privatization of infrastructure has been slower than expected, telecommunications,
ports, water treatment and railways, continue to represent investment areas for IFC. However, the
timing horizon in this case is the medium term. In the area of capital markets, IFC's strategy is to
assist financial institutions to become specialized financial intermediaries, such as venture capital
funds, leasing companies, etc., and to bring first-tier Brazilian companies to the intemational equity
markets.
66.   Brazil joined MIGA in January 1993. MIGA has not yet issued any guarantees.
(iv)   Cooperation with Other Multilateral Insttutions and BDateral Donors
(a)   IMF
67.   The IMF and Bank staff have worked closely together especially in the period leading up to and
following the Standby Agreement in 1992. This includes exchange of documents in draft for inputs
and debriefing sessions. Senior level managers also maintain close contact and staff from each
institution have been invited for Board meetings of the other. Technical assistance is coordinated in
areas where both institutions are active.
(b)   IDB
68.   The IDB's strategy is very similar to the Bank's; it is focusing investment lending on the social
sector, infrastructure and the environment. Loans under preparation include roads rehabilitation
projects for the principal transport corridors, and environmental projects designed to clean up cities and
nearby natural bodies of water (e.g. Rio Tiete).
(c)    Piot Program to Conserve the BrazTan Rain Forest
69.   The Pilot Program was launched at the request of the Group of Seven (G-7) countries and
receives financial support from all of them plus the Commission of the European Communities and the
Netherlands. The financial and technical assistance pledged to the Pilot Program so far is about $280
million of which $59 million is for the Rain Forest Trust Fund (RFT), under World Bank trusteeship. The
Pilot Program is coordinated by the World Bank and is designed to address the causes of deforestation
through improved management of special protected areas, and an increased knowledge base. Several
projects are to be appraised soon under the RFT.
(d)   The Global Environment Faclity (GEF)
70.   $30 million has been approved from the Global Environment Trust Fund for a Biodiversity
project.
(0)    Cofaianclng
71.   JEXIM provided $190 million of cofinancing for three projects with the Bank in 1992. OECF
lending to Brazil is limited to environmental projects and currently there are no cofinanced projects with
the Bank. Sixteen projects totalling $9.2 million were approved for Japanese PHRD grants between
1989 and 1993. Approval Jelays on the part of the govemment have led to reluctance on the part



-14-
of donors to consider new grant applications. There has been no cofinancing with other donors since
1983.
E.    SUMMARY ASSESSMENT
72.   Brazil is passing through a period marked by chronic inflatior and stagnation of the economy.
In order to return to a path of growth in conformity with its potential, it must, above all, carry out a
successful macroeconomic stabilization program. This would require deep seated changes, especially
fiscal reform, anchored in stable institutions. Progress in stabilization is thus linked to political
economy developments. Compared to the pre-1990 period, Brazil has made impressive strides in
resolving the external debt issue and carried out structural reform in areas such as trade liberalization,
privatization, and deregulation. These reforms need to be extended and consolidated. They will
increase the efficiency of the economy and complement macroeconomic stabilization efforts. The
decentralization implied by the constitution of 1988 has led to new and innovative development
programs on the part of municipal and state govemments in some cases, although there is still tension
regarding the division of resources and responsibilities between levels of govemment.
73.   The Bank's strategy is conditioned by the unstable macroeconomic environment facing Brazil.
Lending will focus on poverty alleviation, human resource development, sustainable environment
management, private sector development, and public sector reform. These lending operations would
be complemented by an intensive policy dialogue to assist the govemment in implementing effective
stabilization policies. The volume and composition of lending would be determined by the policy
response of the govemment and would have its core projects and technical assistance in basic
infrastructure, human resource, and the environment. Movement towards the higher end of the
US$500 million to $1 billion lending range would depend on (a) satisfactory macroeconomic program
leading to stabilization; (b) progress on extemal financing; (c) a program of structural reforms with
implementation in key sectors; and (d) agreement on project related reforms.



PART 11. THE PROJECT
74.   Back=round. Although Brazil has invested heavily in urban transportation over the
past 15 years, the situation is far from ideal. The effective demand for urban transport
services particularly in major metropolitan regions (MRs), increased by about 82% in the last
decade, and under present pricing policies, exceeds the existing peak hour supply in most
MRs. In addition to reducing economic productivity in the metropolitan regions, the precarious
and long journeys to affordable housing in the periphery has resulted in severe damage to the
urban environment, primarily through the growth of uncontrolled settlements, and in areas
of high risk such as steep hillsides and flood-prone drainage basins. To add to its capacity
shortage, the Brazilian urban transport sector suffers from institutional problems due to a lack
of coordination between the three levels of government responsible for urban transport in the
MRs. The Constitution promulgated in October 1988, clearly transfers responsibility for urban
transport to state and municipal governments. The federally-owned urban rail system (CBTU)
has been financed and operated independently of the transportation priorities within the MRs.
This has led to inefficient modal and tariff integration and, above all, to a lack of prioritization
of urban transport investments. Finally, cost recovery policies and mechanisms have been so
inadequate that some of the systems (particularly the CBTU) have deteriorated to the extent
that they are no longer a safe and reliable means of transport.
75.   The urban poor, the main users of the CBTU trains, bear the brunt of the problems:
*   shortage of capacity at peak hours resulting in overcrowded (more than 10
passengers/M2), often inhuman conditions;
*   long work joumeys (2.5 hours each way on average) from the metropolitan periphery
to the urban centers, with generally more than two modal transfers; and
*   high proportion (20%) of income spent on home-to-work fares for combined bus and
rail trips.
Expansion and better utilization of the capacity of the rail based systems has been singled out
as the least-cost priority option to increase peak hour capacity in the MRs especially in Rio
de Janeiro (RJ) and Sio Paulo (SP), which between them account for 65% of all urban
transport trips. There exists a consensus that decentralization - that is, the transfer of the
responsibility for the administration, operation, financing and ownership of the CBTU Systems
in each of the 9 MRs, to the states - will make the systems more responsive to their ridership.
Decentraliation coupled with the implementation of a comprehensive set of efficiency-related
policies, should promote modal integration, improve direct cost recovery, strengthen the
targeting of subsidies, and institutionalize a predictable and sustainable system for financing
the operating shortfall of each operating system, and its expansion in the future.
76.   Since the mid 1 980s, the CBTU has lost more than 1 million passengers/day, primarily
to buses, in its Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo systems, which at present, transport 1.5 million
passengers/day. Consequently, road congestion has worsened, travel time has increased, and
air quality has deteriorated. This switch to buses is the result of an inefficient operation due
to frequent disruptions of the system caused by equipment shortages and failures, power
supply and overhead catenary problems, lack of appropriate signalling to decrease headways,
and frequent accidents. The CBTU systems are characterized by poor maintenance, obsolete
infrastructure, and a weak financial situation resulting from:
*   heavy dependence on the cash-strapped federal govemment for operating subsidies;
* poor cost recovery mechanisms such as very low tariffs and fare evasion;
* lack of appropriate cost accounting and financial management;
* very weak inventory management which affects spare part and rolling stock
availability; and
* non-existent staff and line rationalization strategies.



-16-
The Federal Government (GOB) has decided to transfer the CBTU Systems to their respective
States. It has set a December 31, 1994 deadline to complete the transfer of CBTU-RJ. To
facilitate this decentralization, it has decided to embark on an urgent physical rehabilitation
and financial restructuring program for the CBTU-RJ system, through which it intends to
improve overall operational performance and reduce operating expenses, and has approached
the Bank for financial and technical support.
77.   Rationlle for Bank Involvement. As outlined in Part I, the Bank's assistance strategy
in Brazil is to support efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector
and the appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. The proposed
project objectives are in line with the Bank's assistance objectives, namely: (i) to contribute
to poverty alleviation by decreasing traffic congestion, hence reducing travel time and
potentially increasing labor incomes, and improving their quality of life and access of the poor
to basic municipal infrastructure; (iil to improve the urban environment by reducing air
pollution; and (iii) to further public sector reform by promoting financial viability of state-
owned transport enterprises through policy reform including decentralization to lower levels
of government. A first project to rehabilitate and decentralize the CBTU-SP was approved
by the Bank on March 31, 1992 and is under active implementation.
78.   Lessons Learned from Past Bank Prolects. The major lessons from previous projects
in the urban transport sector in Brazil, which have been incorporated in the design of the
proposed project are: (i} coordination between the three levels of govemment in urban
transport cannot be taken for granted, and must be dealt with carefully at the project
preparation stage, and reviewed in detail during the mid-term project review; (ii) sector
policies must be strengthened to minimize distortions resulting from inefficient physical and
financial coordination between modes and to promote multimodal integration; (iii) tariff levels
should allow for significant cost recovery of working costs and must be complemented by
financing mechanisms to cover the revenue shortfalls; (iv) demand levels forecast by the
borrowers should be carefully scrutinized; and (v) more attention should be paid to issues of
operational management.
79.   Proiect Obiectives. The broad project objectives are to consolidate the financial,
institutional and organizational policy changes required to achieve sustainable, integrated
multimodal transport in the RJ Metropolitan Region. The approach used in this project has
been utilized by CBTU to decentralize the CBTU-SP, and will be used as a model for the
remaining 7 MR Systems. The specific objectives for the proposea project are:
*   to support the Federal Government in its efforts to transfer the CBTU-RJ System to
the State of Rio Janeiro in order to enhance its management and operations;
*   to introduce institutional, organizational and financial policy reforms to assure its long-
term financial sustainability (including cost-efficiency gains, improved multimodal
integration, expanded capacity, and substantial reduction in subsidies with improved
targeting); and
*   to contribute to poverty alleviation and environmental improvement (facilitating
access to work; decreasing the trip time to work; reducing congestion, accidents, and
fatalities through the provision of a safer and more comfortable rail transport).
80.   Proiect Descridtion. The project includes an Investment Component (IC) and an
Instiutional Development (ID) component. The IC component (90% of the loan) includes civil
works, equipment and goods to implement the proposed rehabilitation of stations, track,
rolling stock, power supply, substation equipment, fencing of the right of way, traffic
engineering equipment and construction of transfer points required to integrate CBTU with
other modes. The ID component (10% of the loan) will consist of the development and
implementation of policies and action programs to: a) establish organizational, finan^ial and
institutional reforms as a basis for operational efficiency, including improved cost recovery;



- 17 -
(b) operationalize modal and tariff integration between CBTU-RJ, METRO, feeder bus
systems, water-bome passenger ferry services and non-motorized vehiles-this would include
introduction of long-run variable-cost based fare structures for peak and off peak services and
improved targeting of subsidies; (c) prepare an investment program to consolidate the
rehabilitation and decentralization of CBTU-RJ; (d) study and recommend management
alternatives, technical improvements and financial reforms for improving the operating
efficiency of the METRO, the state-owned bus system (CTC), and the state's ferry services
(CONERJ). For each of the transportrtion agencies, studies will include a review of
management contracts and franchising or concessions to the private sector; and (e) provide
technical and management training to CBTU employees as recommended in the organization
and manpower development studies (and after decentralization to the staff of the new
operating agency-RJ Entity). Training will also be targeted to the staff of other selected
transport agencies participating in the project, to maximize crossagency-efficiencies.
81.   The project is estimated to require five years to implement, at a total cost of US$ 272
million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$139.5 million (51 percent).
Retroactive financing in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$10 million may be made on
account of payments for expenditures made after August 1, 1992, but before the signing of
the Loan Agreement. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan is shown in Schedule A.
Amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule
are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of the
Bank Group operations in Brazil are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map is also
attached (No. 23133). The Staff Appraisal Report No. 10936-BR dated May 20, 1993, is
being distributed separately.
82.   The Strateav fow Decentralizadon. The main objective of the decentralization is the
full transfer of operational responsibility for the CBTU-RJ system starting on or before
01'01 /94 and to be completed no later than 12/31/94. Under a "protocolo" --a formal 3-way
Agreement of Intent on Decentralization of the CBTU-RJ from GOB to RJ, and the transfer
of the METRO from RJ to the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro (MRJ) signed in April 1992, the
transfer was to have started in 01/01/93, but wss postponed because of govemment
changes at the federal level. The transfer of ownership of the assets on the other hand,
requires some legislative amendments. Agreement was reached on the adoption of a two-
stage strategy: (i} an "Operational Transfer" which means the effective transfer to a state
Public Corporation (RJ Entity) of all management and operational responsibility and
accountability for the operation and administration of the CBTU-RJ System; and (ii) a second
stage "Ownership Transfer" in which assets of the CBTU-RJ System would pass to the RJ-
Entity following the enactment and execution of necessary legal, contractual and
administrative acts and documents by the Borrower and the State for these purposes.
83.   The terms and conditions of the Operational Transfer will be set out in a contract to
be signed between CBTU and the RJ Entity, and will take the form of a "concession" with
a validity period of 50 years. This will be terminated after appropriate legal authorizations
are given and implemented, by the effective Ownership Transfer of the CBTU-RJ System to
the RJ Entity. The Operational Transfer will provide the RJ Entity with all the rights and
obligations required for the administration and operational management of the system. Dated
covenants (paragraph 86) have been agreed for effecting the Operational Transfer and
initiating the Ownership Transfer.
84.   Prolect Oranlzation and Imdlementa0tn. The project will be managed by a special
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), already created in CBTU for managing the execution of the
CBTU-SP project. The PIU will continue to manage the execution of the project after the
Operational Transfer of the CBTU-RJ System to the State. This will ensure the continuity of
project management experience acquired prior to Operational Transfer, and will prevent
potential delays which could occur due to an eventual change of the project implementation



- 18-
team before the completion of the project. To manage and guide the 'soft" aspects (political,
legal, administrative, institutional, and so forth), through the transition and until December
1993, an Intergovemmental General Coordination Committee has been set up to coordinate
the work of a number of task forces, which will carry out strategic studies on terms of
reference agreed with the Bank. A separate and independent Monitoring and Audit
consultant will be contracted, reporting directly and jointly to the President of CBTU and to
the Chief Executive of the RJ Entity. CBTU's management has taken specific measures to
improve the finances and administration of the agency since May 1990, and has the capacity
to implement the project.
85.   ProiLct Sustainability. Govemment commitment, sound institutional arrangements,
and financial stability are the cornerstones of project sustainability. The State Government
of Rio de Janeiro has given high priority to metropolitan transportation. In May 1992, the
first 7 miles of a 21 mile urban freeway was completed linking the city center to the airport,
and construction of an extension to the northern periphery of the metropolitan region is well
advanced. Public bus transportation has already benefitted from reduced congestion on the
existing road network. The State Govemment moved quickly after signing the April 1992
"Protocolo". In July 1992 an experienced manager was appointed with special status to
coordinate all actions required to initiate the decentralization process. Steps are already
underway to strengthen the institutional arrangements for improved liaison in the sector with
MRJ. Finally, the transfer of responsibility for the METRO to MRJ, and the financial policies
(cost reduction, tariff adjustments) designed for the restructuring of the CBTU-RJ, coupled
with efficiency gains (increased capacity and operating targets), will bring eventual operating
shortfalls to levels which represent at worse, no more than 3% of the State budget after
1995 compared to 4% in 1991. Achieving these levels will provide positive assurances of
the long-term sustainability of the project.
86.   EnvAronmental Aspec. Since the main objective of the proposed project is to
increase the capacity offered by the rail suburban system, it is expected that a substantial
percentage of the passengers now carried by bus will return to their original mode choice of
rail transportation. This is especially true for passengers who live within walking distance
from the stations, who switched to buses because, in the last five years, the capacity and
safety offered by trains has decreased considerably. Conservative estimates indicate that by
project completion about eighteen hundred (1,800) fewer buses per day will be required in
the RJ metropolitan area, because over 500,000 passengers per day will switch back to rail.
The environmental benefits expected arise from this reduction in bus services, given their
present negative impacts on ambient air quality, urban noise, traffic congestion, and road
safety. Other positive effects include passenger safety improvements at the train stations,
on land use particularly around the stations and the decrease of fatal accidents resulting from
lack of fencing of the right-of-way. It is estimated that the quantifiable savings (from
environmental improvements) amount to US$30 million/year. Even if estimated cost the
benefits were cut in haff because the bus operators would, in some cases, continue to run
the buses at lower load factors, the project would contribute positively to the environment.
The indirect benefits of a reduction of uncontrolled settlement in areas of high risk such as
hillsides and drainage basins, because of inadequate affordable transport to the suburbs, have
not been quantified.
87.    rg         Obigetie Catsfories. The ridership of the CBTU-RJ is predominantly low-
income. About 75% earn less than 3 times the minimum wage (3MW) and about 88% earn
less than 5MW (only the very desperate travel under the appalling conditions today). Bank
projections on household expenditures including transportation suggest that the impact of
increased rail fares, especially on the lowest segments (up to 2 MW) could be significant.
The project includes policy reforms to ensure that quantifiable, predictable, and sustainable
subsidies are made available by the State to directly target the low-income ridership. They
will benefit from improved access to work, reduced travel time and congestion, and a general



-19-
improvement in the safety conditions of the present system. The proposed projecc would
improve the environment and have a significant poverty alleviation impact in the low-income
areas of RJ.
88.   Agre Ad Ain. The following assurances were obtained:
A.    Poect Management. That: (a) a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) be
adequately staffed and structured; (b) procurement be carried out in
accordance with Bank guidelines; (c) a Project Management Information
System (PMIS) satisfactory to the Bank be installed within 90 days of Loan
signing; d) the project be executed and the system subsequently operated in
accordance with good environmental practices.
B.    Decentralization end Operadional Efficiency.  That: (a) the Operational
Transfer shall be completed by the target date of 12/31/94, or when 60% of
the loan funds have been disbursed, whichever is earlier; (b) CBTU enter into
a Contract with a juridically independent public corporation to be set up (the
RJ-Entity) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to effect the
Operational Trarnsfer; {c) by 12/31/93 the Borrower will submit to the
Borrower's Congress a bill of law, in fonn and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, authorizing all actions required to effect the Operational Transfer; (d)
by 11/30/93, RJ establish the RJ Entity with sufficient powers and authority
to accept the Operational and Ownership Transfers and to own and operate
all assets included therein; (e) by December 15 each year after the
Operational Transfer and until December 15, 1996, RJ execute "Contract
Plans' satisfactory to the Bank, with the RJ Entity, including specific
operating, financial and performance targets for the following fiscal year and
the financial contributions and other actions required from the State to enable
the RJ Entity to attain such targets; (f) CBTU comply with the agreed
Implementation Program including agreed basic physical, operational, and
financial targets; (g) by 11/30/93, CBTU prepare in consultation with the
Borrower and State and put into effect a "Financial Plan" of action (including
dates and intermediate targets), satisfactory to the Bank, to reach a working
ratio for CBTU-RJ's operations after the Operational Transfer bid, not higher
than 2.15 by December 31, 1996. Such a plan, to be reviewed every six
months, will include a specific program of tariff increases and a set of
operational measures required for that purpose; and (h) efficiency monitoring
indicators which minimize the need for tariff increases be adopted and
intemal management review of income and expenditures and operating
performance be triggered If the operating targets are not met.
C.    Financial Poricy and Modal Integra0on. That: (a) GOB during the project
disbursement period, meet the project-related cost of capital investments plus
debt service (interest and amortization) of the CBTU-RJ and the Loan; (b) until
the Operational Transfer, GOB cover the difference between the working
costs and operating revenues of CBTU-RJ; and (c) CBTU and RJ (and where
applicable MRJ) undertake to ensure completion of selected studies, including
a tariff and financial policy study (all under terms of reference approved by
the Bank) in accordance with a pre-agreed program, so that an Action Plan
on the agreed recommendations can be prepared and implemented.
D.    Specil Reviow and Mid-Term Reviow. That a Special Review (tentatively
planned for September 1994) and a Mid-term Project Review (June 1995) will
take place to review agreed institutional, operational and financial
performance indicators, and compliance with covenants (including tariffs,



-20-
subsidies, poverty targeting, progress on studies, etc) of the Loan and Project
Agreements, to assess project performance and progress on decentralization,
and, as needed, to agree on remedial actions. Particular importance will be
given, during the Special Review and Mid-term Review, to the agreed working
ratios, the status of the studies and action plans, and the State's performance
following the Operational Transfer.
89.   Prior to Loan Effectiveness a Supplementary Agreement to the Protocolo,
incorporating selected provisions of the Loan and Project Agreement, will be executed, and
PIU will have been staffed by CBTU, with a team of fully dedicated specialists satisfactory
to the Bank.
90.   Prolect Mmnet. Substantial quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits are expected
from the provision of increased capacity and safer operations by CBTU-RJ, namely, operating
cost savings, time savings for the users, fewer accidents and fatalities, and employment
generation through better spatial integration of places of residence and employment. In
addition, there will be a positive environmental impact through the reduction in diesel-
operated bus services (substituted by cleaner electric rail service), and consequently lower
pollutant emissions and road congestion with improvements in air quality and noise pollution.
Poverty alleviation will also result from facilitation of access to employment. A preliminary
economic evaluation of the project shows an Intemal Rate of Retum IIRR) of 43% for the
investment component, which represents 90% of the project.
91.   Ridsk. The main risks are political: possible delays in achieving consensus among the
three levels of govemment to implement the Protocolo. This could also delay the transfer of
METRO to MRJ in which case RJ would not be able to meet the operating costs of both the
CBTU-RJ and METRO. Other risks include government reluctance to raise tariffs to allow
CBTU-RJ to reach the targeted working ratios; possible delays in the procurement process,
and the adequacy and timely availability of counterpart funds.  Inter-governmental
negotiations have gone well so far. The GOB and RJ are actively preparing for the
Operational Transfer of CBTU-RJ on January 1, 1994. In parallel RJ and MRJ are also "fine-
tuning" the phasing of different operations and terms of transfer of METRO. As a condition
of effectiveness a sjpplementary agreement to the Protocolo is required to help facilitate the
transfers. GOB also agreed at negotiations to cover the differences between working costs
and revenues until the Operational Transfer is effected. Although CBTU has been regularly
adjusting its tpeiffs, the Government may be tempted to freeze tariffs for long periods of time,
thereby eroding revenues. The contract plans will contain provisions to protect CBTU-RJ from
such Imposed freezes. The de'ays in the procurement process have been minimized as the
CBTU has worked with the Bank to produce standardized bidding documents for the project.
The timely availability of coun,terpart funds has been guaranteed under legislation that
prioritizes the use of annual budgetary provisions for parastatal agencies to meet intemational
and bilateral loan counterpart commitments. Periodic implementation reviews, (including a
Mid-term review) will monitor compliance with counterpart funding commitments.
92.   Recommendaton. I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 20, 1993



-21.
Annex I
BRAZIL
BANK SECTORAL OBJEC_TIVES
Human Resources and Povert Allev7ation
*     Encourage the govemment to balance per capita social spending by addressing urban
biases in fiscal assignment policy.
*     Help government at all levels improve the efficiency of social spending, through better
targeting to the poor and improvements in program management.
*     Within education: ti) improve the quality of primary education; (ii) expand pre-school
services targeted to low-income children; and (iii) encourage policy reforms of higher
education to improve equity and efficiency.
*     Within health: {i) improve the quality and efficiency of basic health services;
(ii) encourage a more efficient federal government role in health, focused on
preventive health services (such as AIDS prevention and other public health
campaigns) and effective oversight of food, drug and health insurance industries,
hospitals and laboratories, etc.
*     Within urban: {i) improve the efficient provision of basic infrastructure by
municipalities, particularly in low-income neighbourhoods; and Oii) improve access to
affordable and safe public transport.
[oirnmentl ManauAMo
*     Strengthen environmental decision making at state and municipal levels.
*     Assist the govemment with establishing a new regulatory framework for water and
waste sectors, including market-based mechanisms to deal with competing claims on
scarce water resources, and an integrated approach to water utilization and
management.
*     Build more economic incentives into the industrial pollution control system.
*     Address urban water pollution problems of improper collection, treatment, and
disposal of waste.
*     Address urban air pollution problems.
*     Encourage protection of the environment in sensitive mining areas, especially in the
Amazon.
*     Shift public expenditures from agricultural market interventions to protection of
natural resources.
*     Recommend improved conservation and management regimes for native forests and
remove policy distortions against plantation forestry in non-native forest areas.
Pfivate Seator Ceblment ad PubUc Secto Reform
*     Encourage the redefinition and reduction of the role of the federal govemment.
*     Promote greater efficiency in state and municipal governments.
*     Maintain structural reforms.
*      -Focus public expenditures on growth enhancing public goods, poverty reduction, and
reduction of environmental externalities.
*     Promote regulatory changes to increase competition and private sector investment.
*     Encourage the replacement of excessive reliance on government regulation with
greater use of market incentives.
*     Promote a change in federal transfer mechanisms to direct state and municipal
expenditures to federally-mandated public priorities.



-22v
*     Assist the government with developing tne legal, institutional and regulatory
framework to (a) promote competition and private sector participation in the electric
power, hydrocarbons and telecommunications sectors; (b) establish rules for future
tariff setting in the electric power, hydrocarbons, and telecommunications sectors.
*     Promote the establishment of market based interest rates for agricultural loans.
*     Change policy framework so that it is neutral regarding labor intensity.
*      Eliminate policy bias against small and medium sized farming.
*     Encourage a major redirection of agricultural and natural resource expenditures,
focusing government spending on activities that reduce rural poverty, growth
enhancing public goods, and reduction of environmental externalities; and
withdrawing spending for activities better suited to the private sector (pricing and
marketing boards, credit)



-23 -
Schedule A
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY AND FINANCING PLAN
ESTIMATED COSTS't                                                           US$
Milinons
A - INSTITUTIONAL DEV. & ACTION PLAN
Tech. Assistance and
Studies                                           7.08          3.04          10.10
Training                                          0.49          0.27           0.76
B - INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Civil Works                                      61.49         33.11          94.60
Materials                                        14.35         13.90          28.25
Equipment                                         3.06          8.04          11.10
Mechanical Works                                 19.70         59.10          78.80
Supervision of Invest. Program                    5.00          0.00           5.00
TOTAL BASE COST                     111.19         117.45         228.65
Physical Contingencies                           10.03         10.85          20.88
Price Contingencies                              11.33         11.08          22.41
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    132.50        139.50         272.00
FRNANCING  LAN                                                               USB
Miilons
IBRD                                                 .         128.50        128.50
GOB                                             132.50          11.00        143.50
TOTAL                          132.50         139.50        272.00
./ Including estimated local taxes and duties totalling US$34.5 million.
2t Differences in totals may be due to rounding



-24-
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MROPOLiTAN TRNSPORT DECENTtALUZATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
ESTIMATED COST IN US$ MILLIONS "
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I'.
A. Civil Works                          96.69       21.04               -                   117.78
(34.03)       (7.33)                                 (41.36)
B. Materials                           30.49          0.16             -         2.25        32.91
(25.31)       (0.14)                                 (25.44)
C. Equipment                             4.52         0.77           1.7         6.43         13.40
(3.75)      (0.65)        (1.4)61                    (5.79)
D. Mechanical Works                     83.33         5.82                                   89.15
(40.96)       (3.76)                                 (44.72)
E. Technical                                                      17.84                       17.84
Assistance2'                                                    (10.4)                    (10.42)
F. Training
Travel and Expenses3'                                             0.39                       0.39
(0.36)                     (0.36)
Consultants                                                      0.50                        0.50
(0.40)                     (0.40)
TOTAL                         215.04        27.79         20.41         8.69       271.93
(104.05)      (11.88)       (12.57)                    (128.5)
t/ Figures in parenthesis Indicate proposed financing by the Bank.
a' Consulting services.
31 Items not involving procurement.
4/ Not Bank-financed.
I LIS, Lirnited Intemational Bidding



-25-
,Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(US$)
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
(1) Works:
a. dvil works                      33,000,000                    40%
and systems
b. rolling stock                   41,000,000                    56%
(2) Goods                            25,000,000  100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures for other items procured
__ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _   _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ ___  locally   __
(3) Consuttant's services             9,500,000
and training:
a. training abroad                              100% of foreign expenditures
b. training in Brazil                          50% of local expenditures
c. consultants                                 50% of local expenditures for services of
consultants residing within the territory of the
Guarantor and 100% of foreign expenditures
for services of other consultants
(4) Unallocated                      20,000,000
TOTAL                       128,500,000    _
Souroe: Appraisal Miseion, Aptil 1992
ESTIUATED DISBRSEMTS: US mion
Anrual               29.0'          51.0         27.0       16.5 r    5.0
Cumulative              29.0        80.0        107.0       123.5        128.5
L/ Including initil deposits into the Special Accounts totalling US1i 1.0 million.



-26-
SchedWale 
Page I of 1
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEiRO METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:                        1. 5 years
(b) Prepared by:                                  Government and the Conpanhia Brasileira de Trens
Urbanos (CBTU) with assistance of the IBRD
(Messrs. Braz Menezes, Jorge Rebelo, LA1IN, and
Jose Balgorria, LATIE).
(c) First Bank mission:                           January 1991.
(d) Appraisal mission departure:                  April 1992.
(e) Negotiations:                                 August 31 - September 4, 1992.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:                October 1993
(g) iist of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:              PPAR dated 11/01/86
PCR dated 01/28/86
(Loan 1563-BR of 5/9178)
First Urban Transport Project.
PCR dated 12/01/87
(Loan 1839-BR of 5/6/80)
Second Urban Transport Project (Trensurb).
PCR dated 12/07/90
(Loan 1965-BR of 3/31/81)
Third Urban Transport Project.



-27-
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1993)
Amount less
Loan NoYear                           Pu                        Cancellati         Undisbursed
-(US$ million)-
One hundred and forty-three loans fully disbursed                  10,107.82
2523   1985  Brazil                 Rutal Development                61.3            24.3
2524   1985  Brazil                 Rural Development                61.4            27.6
2563   1985  Brazil                 Railways                        200.0            54.1
2564   1985  ELETROBRAS             Power Tmnsmission               251.8             9.5
2565   1985  ELETROBRAS             Power Distibutiona               312.0            3.5
2623   1986  State of Santa Catria   Urban Development               24.5             6.9
2679   1986  Brazil                 Agriculture                      155.0           82.7
2680   1986  Brazil                 Inigation Eng.                   48.0             7.8
2681   1986  Brazil                 Urban Development                36.6            24.8
2699   1986  Brazil                 Health                           59.5            31.6
2718   1986  Brail                  Rural Development                92.0            42.3
2719   1986  Brazil                 Irrigation                       57.0             4.3
*2721   1986  Brazil                 Public Sector                    24.0             2.1
2727   1986  Brazil                 Credit & Marketing Reform       495.0            13.6
2761   1987  Brazil                 Rural Development                171.0          111-7
2762   1987  Brazil                 Rural Development                78.0            45.0
2763   1987  Brazil                 Rural Development                122.0           79.1
2810   1987  Brzil                  Education                         15.6            2.1
2830   1987  State of Sao Paulo     State Highway                    174.0           54.7
2831   1987  Brazil                 Industrial Pollution Control     50.0            32.3
2857   1987  FEPASA                 Railway Rehabiitation            100.0           18.2
2860   1987  Brazil                 Rural Development                60.0            36.8
2861   1987  Brazil                 Rural Development                55.0            41.3
2862   1987  Brazil                 Rural Development                 84.0           60.6
2863   1987  Brazil                 Rural Development                42.0            30.2
2864   1987  Brazil                 Livestock Disease Control        51.0            37.8
2895   1988  State of Minas Gemis   Forestry Development             48.5            24.0
2931   1988  Brazil                 Disease Control                   89.0           53.1
2950   1988  Brazil                 Irrigation Subsector             195.0          118.2
2960   1988  Bmzil                  Agro-ndustries Credit           300.0            46.0
2971   1988  Brazil                 Agricultual Credit               300.0           21.1
2975   1988  CEF                    Rio Flood Reconstuction          175.0           62.3
2983   1988  CEF                    Municipal & Low-Income            80.0           59.2
3013   1989  Brazil                 Irigation                         71.0           53.0
* SECAL, SAL or Program Loan



-28-
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (continued)                                                  Schedule D
(As of March 31, !993)                                                                 Page 2 of 4
Amount less
LoMnN  Yealr        BoorooCancelaion                                               Undisisrse
--SS$ tnilion)-
3018   1989  State of Paana         Land Managemmnt                    63.0          29.0
3043   1989  Cia. de Gas Sao Paulo   Natural Gas Distribution          94.0          70.3
3072   1989  Brazil                 Amazon Basin Malaria Control       82.9          38.4
3100   1989  State of Parana        Municipal Development             100.0          57.7
3102   1989  Cia. Saneamento Basico
Sao Paulo            Water Sector                      280.0         206.5
3129   1990  State of Rio Grande
do Sul               Municija Development              100.0          77.7
3130   1990  Brazil                 Agricultural Research              47.0          37.6
3135   1990  Brazil                 Basic Health                      267.0         233.2
3160   1990  State of Santa Catarina  Land Management                  33.0          26.8
3169   1990  Brazil                 Highways Mgmt & Rehabilitation    310.0         242.3
3170   1990  Brazil                 Irigation                         210.0         201.2
3173   1990  Brazil                 Environmental                     117.0          96.4
2883-1  1990  ELETROBRAS            Resettlement & Irrigation         100.0          27.9
3268   1991  BNDES                  Private Sector                    300.0          98.7
3269   1991  Brazil                 Education                         150.0         127.S
3375   1991  State of Sao Paulo     Education                         24S.0         221.1
3376   1991  Petroleo Brasiteiro S.A. Hydrocarbon Tansport & Processing   260.0     260.0
34421' 1992  Brazil                 Water Sector Modernization        250.0         250.0
3444it 1992  Btazil                 Rondonia Natural Resource Management 167.0      167.0
34S7   1992  Brazil                 Metro Transport - Sao Paulo       126.0         126.0
3480   1992  BNDES                  Pollution Control                  50.0          50.0
3492   1992  Brazil                 Naturl Resource - Mato Grosso     205.0         205.0
3503 F 1993  Brazil                 Water Quaity and Pollution Control  9.0           9.0
3S04 1' 1993  Brazil                State of Sao Paulo Water Quality
and Pollution Control           119.0          119.0
3505 If 1993   Brazil               State of Paanna Water Quality and
Pollution Control               117.0          117.0
3547 1  1993  State of Santa Catarina  State Highway                  50.0          50.0
3548 1' 1993  State of Alagoas      State Highway                      38.0          38.0
3554 If 1993  State of Minas Gerais   Water Quality and Pollution Control   14S.0   145
TOTAL                                                18,337.30 Y
Of which bas bWen repaid to the Bain                  7.759.81
Total now outtanding                                 10,577.49
Amount sold            45.83
Of which has been repaid  45.83                         A
Total now held by Bank                                .1Q§
Total undisbursed                                                   49
If Not yet effective
YN  IDA credits have been made to Brazil
Note: The stus of the projects listed in Part A is desribed in a separat report on all Bank/IDA financed piqects in
execution, which is updated twice yealy and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-29-
Scboduk D
Page 3 of 4
B. STATMENTOP IPC   V=IMBNTS
(As of March 31, 1993)
USS Milion
12S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  Oborf law                                                                Madh
1957                Sieaens do Irazi Ci d EBtribidade                  Eltc  Equipment               2.86            2.86
1958                Olinitaft, S.A. Coluloso  Papd                     Pulp and Paper                2.16    -       2.16
1958                D.L.R. Plsticos do Brasl, S.A.                     Automotive Pais               0.45    -       0.45
195S                WUys.Ovorland do 8msi, S.A.-lnd. a Comrci          Fabc mdal Producft            2.45    -       2.45
1959                Companhia Minlta de Cinmeto Portand, S.A.          Cement                        2.40    -       2.40
1959                Champion Celulose. S.A.                            Pulp and Paper                4.00    -       4.00
1966/69189          KCC- Cahens                                        Pulp and Paper               19.06   8.86   27.92
1966t6U72           Acos Vars, S.A.                                    Stel                          8.00    1.94    9.94
967m                Ultrafetl, S.A.-Ind. e Comerioo e Petdlizante      pestbs 4 PesdtIcdes           8.__   6.05   14.27
1969                Petoquimria Unilo, S.A.                            Perochaica                    5.50   5.76   11.26
1970                Poliolefinas, S.A. Industri e Comeoo               PaChewmkab                    5.50   555    11.05
1971                0deno, S.A. Industrao Comeroo                      Pet_chemiab                   4.60   2.68    7.28
1971                Rio Grand. - Companhia do Clusosedo Sid            Pulp and Paper                4.90    -       4.90
1972n7sL81/87       Cia. do Cmeto  Ncloal do Mis - CIMINAS             Cement                      20039   1332  213.71
1973I4J774n 83/I  s Cia. S udeura do Guanabai- COSIGUA                 Sted                         76.97  27.08  104.05
1973                Capital Mart Devlopmen Pund - PUMCAP               Capal Markt Devlpmn           5.00    -       5.00
1973/78/83          Emp.do Desemolvimento de Rousos MWnsb-CODEMIN  Nickd Miing & Rofbing            85.00   8.74   93.74
1974                Indura Vlames, S.A.                                Elvato r   Ind. Eq1pnt        6.00    -       6.00
1974/88             FabrIcs de Tedo TaUpe S.A.                         Tilks                        39.80    -      39.80
1"5/79              Capuava Carbona Indu  Ld.                          Chemial & Perochemials        6.18   2.03    8.21
1975               O0iteno Nordeste, S.A.                              Perocmcals                   10.00    -      10.00
1976                Santsa Inda  - TextUt do Nordoae, S.A.             Textes                        6.45    1.00    7.45
1976/80             Teeanor SA. - TeUtil CaQarineae do Nordete         Taxile                        16.20    -     16.20
1977                FMB S.A. Productos Mealurgieo                      Ir on  Aluminum Casng        20.00    -      20.00
1977                Minowagao Rio do Nore S.A.                         Mining                        15.00    -     15.00
1978/84             Cimal Sdaurgia. SA                                 Ion & Sted                    838   6.00   14.38
1979/83187          Volvo do Br"aD Mowres e Veinubs, S.A.              Motor Vehike                 60.00  11.95   71.95
1980                Haing do Nordete, S.A. - MaUDa                     Ready-made Cauments           2.00    -       2.00
980                 Dend& do Parn, S.A. - Dopas. - Ag4icultur,
lndustria e Comeroic do Oleanosfas                Arig. £ ivestock Products     3.50    1.96    5.46
1980                VIllars Industfias de Dame, S.A. . VIBASA          IrMn and Steel                5.00    -       5.00
1980/88             PPH - Companua Indstria de Folpropileso            Chemalsb & Perocheicalts     31.00   3.64   34.64
1980                Detilda Canorte. S.A.                              Chemicas A Petchemiwals        -      0.25    0.25
1910/83             Sotave Amazonia Quminc c Minral, S.A.             PerdtiIzs                    35.00   9.97   44.97
1980/81/87          PuEbul Petroqimica                                 Chemias A Petrohweicls       43.00  11.00   54.00
1981                Brasilpar                                          Money a Capita Maetos          -      2.69    2.69
1981                c       nha al a de  r            - COSRAPS        Food e Food Proc_sIg          S.S0   3.00    8.50
1981/87             TAruno                                             Chcals & Prochemicals        46.00   7.07   53.07
1982M87             Cimertn CAUE                                       Cement & Cosr" Matei     40.00   8.26   48.26
1982                A       SA, .. - IOCHPE                            Money & Capil Ma               -      0.90    0.90
1982                PLANtRANC (AM)                                     Lasng Compaes                30.00    -      30.00
1983                Cia.R ogandemsde Partiolppcs (CRP)                 Money a CalMw     ae           -      0.01    0.01
1983                Atdas Frdgofco                                     Ae.  Livetock Prdut           13.00    -     13.00
1983                C ompanh  Dende do Ampa (CODEPA)                   Vegebl & Animal OR            6.10    -       6.10
1983/85/88          PISA - Papol de Imprena, S.A.                      Pulp A Paper Ptoduct         82.00  12.37   94.37
1983                Sooco, S.A.                                        Poy                           3.00   2.50    5.50
1983                CIMAG                                              Cement  Coscon Mateials 35.00    -           35.00
1986/8              Nitroclor Produtos                                 DrW A Modibine                3.00  1135   14.35
1984                Cmpai Aocolqoouinca Nacional - ALQUIM              Chemicl & Petrohemicl        20.00   7.72   27.72
1985                Qimi da Babia                                      Chemicals & Pem cs            3.49  ' 328    6.77
1987                 l0o Pauto Alpargs                                 Ready-Made Gamewt            30.00    -      30.00



-30-
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INV8STMEN1S (continued)
(As of March 31, 1993)
USS MilBion
Date                       ObBeor                                      Tveof Busing"                 l      Aan Tiuoti al
1987                Amapa Florestale Celulose - AMCEL                  Pulp and Paper               14.00    -        14.00
1988                Fabtica Caroca de Catalisador - FCC                Chemibals                    20.50    -        20.50
1988                Equity Fund of Brazil                              Capital Market Instiutions     -     21.05     21.05
1988                S.A. Comercio a Industrial - PERDIGAO              Agric. & Livsohk Products    20.00    -       20.00
1988                Banco Bozano                                       Small & Medium Enuwpris      20.00    -        20.00
1988                Banco Itau                                         Smal & Medium Entepses       30.00    -        30.00
1988/93             Mineraqoes Brasileiras Reumidos - MBR              Mining                       80.00    -        80.00
1988                Unibanco - Unilo de Bancos Basieiros               Small & Medium Enterprises   30.00    -        30.00
1988                Duratex, S.A.                                      StrucuaClay Products          7.37    -        737
1988                Cebrace                                            Ole and Gla  Products        40.00   5.00      45.00
1988                Brasital                                           Texlies and Fibers            0.10    -         0.10
1988                Sanser                                             Textiles and Fibe             3.20   1.30       450
1988                Moho Santist                                       Textiles and Fibs             4. 00   -        4.00
1988                Toalia                                             Texiles and Pibers            1.90    -         1.90
1989190             COPENE                                             Chemias                      50.00    -        50.00
1989                ELUMA                                              Irn and Stee                  15.00    -       15.00
1989                POLmTNO                                            Checal and Petrohnals    18.50   6.50          25.00
1990191193          Bahia Sul                                          Pulp and Paper               100.00  21.00    121.00
1991                Santa Marina                                       Cement                       2S.00   -        25.00
1991                RIPASA                                             Pulp ad Paper                20.00   5.00      25.00
1991                Engepol                                            Pasti Products                3.50    -         3.50
1992                Bazil Investment Fund                              Secrities Market Francing      -      3.00      3.00
1992                Excel                                              Platic Products              20.00   8.33      28.33
1992                 anco Bu  dCo                                      Commcia Bak                  60.00    -        60.00
1992                Petwo Camacari                                     Chemals & Peochmicals          -      -         -
Tota Gross Commienls                                                        1,645.11 258.11  1903.22
Less Canellations, Teminations. Repayments and Sale                         1.163.   14.90 1.L1L
Total Commitment Now Hdd by IFC                                              481.35 103.21    584.56
Total Undisbwsed                                                              9L80            29IQ



ekkw* for $6 mnvw"m                                                                      METROPOUTAN TRANSPORT
, F.- twat no Wbrm                                                                              Dewdtalization Projed
B g_v8 R A Z I L  t  &wwra% =                                                                             CBTU - Rio De Joneiro System
ut   It  z      andd  _0                                                                                             ClltUIR down
o~~~~~~        a   ft   M &   -w   a n   fmNt oe
p    Wbfdof   G                                                                                  eb
on do                                                                 tC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-(W LOROW
o                                                                                                                    -       sw°i 1
X                                                        , .Th .ROJECT .  .4.W..I.PX
LA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A*C ONA
DUQUE                                      LAKM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MSON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S



