Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3633 BR
Loan Agreement
(Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport
Decentralization Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 14, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3633 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 14, 1993, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) in view of the provisions of the Brazilian Constitution governing 
public metropolitan urban transport and to improve the operational efficiency and 
financial performance of
suburban railways services and facilitate their integration with other transport 
services under state and local jurisdictions, the Borrower has decided to transfer the 
management and operations of the assets owned and operated by Companhia Brasileira de 
Trens Urbanos (CBTU) in the metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro (the CBTU-RJ System) 
to the State of Rio de Janeiro (the State) and intends to transfer the ownership of 
such system to the State;
(B)
the State has accepted the transfer of the CBTU-RJ System on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the agreement signed between the Borrower, 
the State and the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro (MRJ) on April 9, 1992 (the 
Protocolo) and it has been further agreed between the Borrower and the State to amend 
and supplement the Protocolo to detail further
the terms of, and carry out, the transfer of such System;
(C)
to attain the objectives of such transfer, the Borrower, the Bank and the 
Page  2
State have agreed that it is necessary: (i) to carry out the physical rehabilitation 
and financial restructuring of the CBTU-RJ System together with the studies and 
programs included in the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) 
for the State to: (a) establish a legally independent entity (the RJ Entity) with 
sufficient authority to own and operate the CBTU-RJ System after the transfer; and (b) 
ensure the operational, safety and financial efficiency of the RJ Entity and that its 
activities are carried out in accordance with appropriate environmental practices;
(D)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(E)
the Project will be carried out by CBTU with the Borrower's and State's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to CBTU 
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
State, and the Bank and CBTU;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CBTU Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CBTU of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CBTU Project Agreement;
(b)
"CBTU-RJ" means, until the Operational Transfer shall have taken place, 
the branch of CBTU operating in the State of Rio de Janeiro;
(c)
"CONERJ" means Companhia de Navegacao do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, the 
State's navigation company;
(d)
"Contract Plans" means the annual agreements between the State and the RJ 
Entity referred to in Section 2.05 (b) of the State Project Agreement;
(e)
"Contract" means the agreement referred to in Section 2.14 of the CBTU 
Project Agreement, to be entered into between CBTU and the RJ Entity to effect the 
Operational Transfer;
(f)
"CTC" means Companhia de Transportes Coletivos, the transport company of 
the State;
(g)
"EMU" means electric multiple unit, a standard train set of at least 3 
passenger cars of which at least one is a motorized unit;
Page  3
(h)
"Estatutos" means CBTU's Charter dated March 15, 1984, which established 
CBTU, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(i)
"Financial Plan" means the financial recovery plan referred to in Section 
2.12 of the CBTU Project Agreement and Section 2.13 of the State Project Agreement;
(j)
"FRSMM" means AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of 
the Merchant Marine, Adicional ao Frete para Renovacao da Marinha Mercante, 
established by Decree-Law No. 1.142
of December 30, 1970 as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge 
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute for it, in whole or in 
part, after January 1, 1988;
(k)
"Implementation Program" means the Project's implementation program set 
forth in the Schedule to the CBTU Project Agreement;
(l)
"km" means kilometer, a metric unit of measure;
 
(m)
"m" means meter, a metric unit of measure and "m2" means square meter;
 
(n)
"Metro" means Companhia do Metropolitano do Rio de Janeiro, the State 
company in charge of the operation of the subway system in the city of Rio de Janeiro;
(o)
"Operational Transfer" means the effective transfer to the RJ Entity of 
all management and operational authority and all responsibility and accountability for 
the operation and administration of the CBTU-RJ System;
(p)
"Ownership Transfer" means the transfer of ownership of the CBTU-RJ 
System to the RJ Entity, including the enactment and execution of all legal, 
contractual and administrative acts and
documents required under the legislation of the Borrower and the State for these 
purposes;
(q)
"PIU" means the Project implementation unit to be maintained by CBTU 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the CBTU Project Agreement;
(r)
"PMIS" means the Project management information system to be established 
and maintained by CBTU pursuant to Section 2.11 of the CBTU Project Agreement;
(s)
"Project Consultant" means the monitoring auditor referred to in Section 
2.09 of CBTU Project Agreement;
(t)
"Rehabilitation of Rolling Stock" means the rehabilitation of an EMU's 
rolling stock, including change of motors and of electrical, audio and 
telecommunication systems, adjustment of trucks and shell rehabilitation;
(u)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(v)
"State Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the 
State of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the State Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred twenty-eight million 
and five hundred thousand dollars ($128,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the 
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
Page  4
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Page  5
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause CBTU to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of CBTU 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
CBTU to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
As and when required for the timely execution of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make available to CBTU the proceeds of the Loan as a grant under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. For that purpose, the Borrower shall make the 
necessary allocations in its annual budget, through the completion of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Standard bidding documents and letters of invitation to, and contracts 
with, consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be utilized, as applicable, in the 
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CBTU 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the CBTU Project Agreement with respect to all Project 
activities carried out by or on behalf of CBTU.
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank and in addition to the proceeds of the Loan, all funds and 
other resources required by CBTU to cover, until the Operational Transfer shall have 
taken place, any differences between total working
expenses and total operating revenues of CBTU's operations in the State.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the term "total working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation and interest and other charges 
on debt; and
 
(ii)
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than September 30, 1994 and June 30, 
1995, exchange views with the Bank, the State and CBTU and, if applicable the RJ 
Entity, with regard to the progress of the execution of the Project, the Operational 
Transfer, the performance of their respective
obligations under the Protocolo, this Agreement, the State Project Agreement and the 
CBTU Project Agreement and the achievement of the objectives of the Operational and 
Ownership Transfers and the
Page  6
operational and financial targets of the CBTU-RJ System.
(b)
At least 15 days prior to the exchanges of views referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower, through CBTU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing the Borrower's 
actions with respect to the execution of the Project and the Operational and Ownership 
Transfers, the status thereof and the progress achieved in attaining the operational 
and financial targets of the CBTU-RJ System.
Section 3.06. Not later than December 31, 1993, the Executive Branch of the 
Borrower shall submit to the Borrower's Congress a bill of law, satisfactory to the 
Bank, authorizing the Borrower to take all action required to effect the Ownership 
Transfer.
Section 3.07. (a) Until the Operational Transfer is effected, to the 
satisfaction of the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly as required, continue to 
transfer to CBTU all amounts necessary to cover the difference between the total 
working costs of CBTU-RJ and the total operating revenues of CBTU-RJ.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, "total working costs of CBTU-RJ" means 
the aggregate of all expenses related to every one of the CBTU-RJ System operations, 
including administration and adequate maintenance, but excluding taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes and provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt, 
and "total operating revenues of CBTU-RJ" means the revenues from all sources related 
to any of the CBTU-RJ System operations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause to be maintained, 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the resources and expenditures of the departments and agencies of the 
Borrower in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have such records and accounts, and where appropriate, financial 
statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) and 
the records and accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of said accounts 
and financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
Page  7
the Loan Account was made;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
State Project Agreement;
(b)
CBTU shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CBTU 
Project Agreement;
(c)
any of the parties to the Protocolo shall have failed to perform any of 
its respective obligations under the Protocolo, as amended pursuant to Section 6.01 
(a) of this Agreement, and such failure, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
affect materially and adversely the execution of the Project or the attainment of its 
objectives;
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the State or CBTU will be able to perform their respective obligations under the 
State Project Agreement or CBTU Project Agreement;
(e)
the Estatutos shall have been amended, suspended, or abrogated, so as to 
affect, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of 
CBTU to perform any of its obligations under the CBTU Project Agreement;
(f)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CBTU or for the suspension of 
its operations before the completion of the Project and no other arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been made by the Borrower to ensure the timely 
completion of the Project and the attainment of its objectives;
(g)
the State or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the RJ Entity or for the suspension 
of its operations; and
(h)
by December 31, 1994 or the date on which disbursements from the Loan 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of 60% of the Loan amount, whichever is 
earlier, the Borrower and the State shall have failed to complete the execution of the 
Operational Transfer in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) or (e) or (g) or (h) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Page  8
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Protocolo has been amended, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, 
to reflect the obligations of the Borrower, the State and CBTU under the Loan 
Agreement, the State Project Agreement and the CBTU Project Agreement, respectively;
(b)
that the PIU has been adequately staffed by CBTU, to the satisfaction of 
the Bank; and
(c)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
from the State, that the State Project Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the State, and is legally binding upon the State in accordance with its 
terms;
(b)
from CBTU, that the CBTU Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by CBTU, and is legally binding upon CBTU in accordance with its terms;
(c)
from the Borrower, the State and CBTU, that the Protocolo, as amended 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement, has 
been duly authorized or ratified
by the Borrower, the State and CBTU and is legally binding upon the Borrower, the 
State and CBTU in accordance with its terms;
(d)
from the Borrower, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by 
the Central Bank of Brazil;
(e)
from CBTU, that the PIU has been established and no other corporate 
action is required from CBTU to start the PIU's operations as agreed between the Bank 
and CBTU; and
(f)
from the Borrower, the State and CBTU, that all acts, consents and 
approvals, together with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have 
been duly and validly performed or given and that no other such acts, consents or 
approvals are required in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and the 
Operational Transfer and to enable the Borrower, the State and CBTU to perform all of 
the respective covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower, the State and 
CBTU contained in the Loan Agreement, the Protocolo, the State Project Agreement and 
the CBTU Project Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date January 14, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Page  9
Esplanada dos Ministerios,
Bloco "P" - 5o andar
70048 Brasilia, D.F. Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MEFP
61-1506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
With copies to:
(i)
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "P" - 8o andar
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1506 MFAZ BR
(ii)
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento e
Coordenacao da Presidencia de Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-2207
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64l45 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Ana Lucia Gatto de Oliveira
Authorized Representative
and
Honorary Witness
Page  10
By /s/ Alberto Goldman
Minister of Transport
FEBERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Civil works               33,000,000      40%
(2)   Rehabilitation of         41,000,000      56%
      Rolling Stock
(3)   Goods                     25,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
(4)   Consultants'               8,900,000      50% of local
      services                                  expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                consultants
                                                domiciled within
                                                the territory of
                                                the Borrower and
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                other consultants
(5)  Training                   600,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
(6)   Unallocated             20,000,000
                              __________
            TOTAL             128,500,000
                              ===========
Page  11
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments: (a) made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after August 1, 1992; (b) for expen-
ditures related to each station referred to in Part B.2 of the Project, unless the 
Bank shall have approved the final engineering design for each such station; and (c) 
for expenditures related to
each depot referred to in Part B.4 (a) of the Project, unless the Bank shall have 
approved the final engineering design for each such depot.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the operational efficiency and 
financial performance of suburban railway services and facilitate their integration 
with other transport
services under state and local jurisdictions in the State; (b) to carry out the 
physical rehabilitation and operational, institutional, organizational and financial 
policy reforms in the
operations of CBTU in the State, to ensure the efficient operation and long-term 
financial sustainability of the suburban railway services after the Operational and 
Ownership Transfers; and (c) to contribute to poverty alleviation and environmental 
improvement through the provision of more effective, safer and efficient urban 
transportation services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Decentralization, Institutional and Policy Reforms
 
1.
A program of studies and action plans aimed at supporting the decentralization 
of suburban railway services in the State and the Operational and Ownership Transfers, 
including institutional and organizational arrangements, valuation of assets, 
personnel transfer (including retirement and other benefits, seniority, etc), 
operational, legal, regulatory and administrative aspects of decentralization, 
financial and economic issues and physical and operational integration with urban 
transport systems in the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region.
2.
A program of studies and action plans to improve the management, operations and 
finances of the suburban railway services operated by CBTU in the State, including 
manpower development plans,
introduction of cost accounting, management and information systems, improvements in 
inventory management, studies and plans aimed at privatizing maintenance and other 
operations and increasing non-operating revenues, and provision of related technical 
assistance and training to CBTU and RJ Entity staff.
3.
A program of studies and action plans to provide a policy framework for, and 
support to, the urban transport modal integration, including the establishment of 
multi-modal tariff integration, updating of the metropolitan urban transport master 
plans,  development of management and route rationalization studies for CTC, CONERJ 
and Metro, and strenghtening of the management capacity of CTC, CONERJ and Metro.
Part B:
Physical Rehabilitation
 
A set of programs to rehabilitate the infrastructure and equipment included in 
Page  12
the CBTU-RJ System including:
1.
A track rehabilitation program consisting of: (a) infrastructure works, 
including the improvement of drainage systems on about 12 line-km, the rehabilitation 
of 8 small bridges and 175 m of culverts, the construction of 3 pedestrian overpasses, 
the construction of about 3,100 m2 of retaining walls, about 2,200 m of fences along 
the right-of-way and about 16,000 m3 of earthworks  for improving the road-bed; (b) 
superstructure works on specific sections, including the replacement of sleepers, 
fastenings, ballast and rail switches, on a total of about 243 track-km, and the 
laying of about 4.5 km of double track; and (c) rehabilitation of track maintenance 
equipment and provision of related spare parts for maintenance.
2.
A passenger stations improvement program consisting of the 
modernization/rehabilitation of about 37 stations, including installation of fences.
3.
A Rehabilitation of Rolling Stock program including: (a) the rehabilitation of 
about 80 wagons and about 34 EMUs; and (b) the acquisition and utilization of nine 
(second hand and/or
remanufactured) diesel locomotives.
4.
A workshop program including: (a) the construction of two depots for maintenance 
of EMUs; (b) the acquisition and utilization of plant equipment for workshops and 
depots; and (c) the rehabilitation and modernization of three workshops.
5.
A telecommunications rehabilitation program consisting of: (a) the installation 
of train loudspeaker systems in about 216 trains; and (b) the installation of about 35 
station clocks.
6.
An electrification program consisting of the installation of an overhead 
catenary on about 4.5 km of track.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1999
through  September 1, 2008 
6,425,000
 
