Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3633 BR
CBTU Project Agreement
(Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport
Decentralization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS
Dated October 14, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3633 BR
CBTU PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 14, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS (CBTU).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-eight 
million and five hundred thousand dollars ($128,500,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only, inter alia, on condition that CBTU agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available by the Borrower to CBTU as a grant for the carrying out of the Project; 
and
WHEREAS CBTU, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set
forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CBTU declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, in collaboration with the State, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, engineering and 
public transportation practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and CBTU shall otherwise agree, CBTU shall: (i) carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement; and (ii) take all action necessary to achieve institutional, physical, 
operational and financial performance targets, satisfactory to the Bank, in the 
execution of the Project and the operation of CBTU-RJ System.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Section 3.02 of, and of Schedule 4 to, the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. CBTU shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project as provided in Section 3.03 of 
the Loan Agreement.  The report referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General 
Conditions shall be prepared by CBTU, with the assistance of the State, and furnished 
to the Bank by CBTU.
Section 2.04. (a) CBTU shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CBTU shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by CBTU of its obligations under this Agreement. In addition, CBTU shall 
promptly inform the Borrower and the State of any such condition.
Section 2.05. CBTU shall: (a) establish and thereafter maintain, until the 
completion of the Project, a Project Implementation Unit (the PIU), with staffing, 
responsibilities and functions
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
provide, promptly as needed, all the funds, facilities, staff and 
resources required by the PIU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a 
timely and efficient manner.
Section 2.06. In carrying out the training programs under the Project, CBTU 
shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, for approval, the contents of such programs as well 
as the schedule for their implementation;
Page  3
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
(i) not later than June 30, 1994, exchange views with the Bank on the 
training programs to be carried out under the Project from July 1, 1994 through 
December 31, 1994; and (ii) not later than December 1 of each year starting by 
December 1, 1994, exchange views with the Bank on the training programs to be carried 
out under the Project in the respective following calendar year;
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each of such training programs and 
the benefits to be derived therefrom;
(e)
consult with the State on the design and execution of such training 
programs and selection of beneficiaries thereunder; and
(f)
furnish to the State copies of any reports sent to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (d) of this Section.
Section 2.07. CBTU shall, jointly with the State and MRJ, as applicable: (a) 
carry out the studies included in the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank; (b) promptly upon the completion of each such study, furnish to the Bank a 
copy of its findings and recommendations; (c) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity 
to comment on such findings and recommendations; (d) taking into account the Bank's 
comments thereon, prepare programs or plans of action satisfactory to the Bank, based 
on such recommendations; and (e) carry out such programs or plans of action in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank, as provided in the Implementation Program.
Section 2.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 2.01 and 3.02 of 
this Agreement, CBTU shall carry out the Project and operate the CBTU-RJ System in 
accordance with appropriate ecological and environmental practices, satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 2.09. (a) Within ninety days from the date of this Agreement, CBTU, in 
consultation with the State, shall employ a consultant, with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (the Project Consultant), to act as an independent Project 
monitoring auditor reporting directly to CBTU's President and to the chief executive 
officer of the RJ Entity.
(b)
CBTU shall retain the Project Consultant until the completion of the 
Project, and cause such Consultant to supervise the Project and prepare and furnish to 
the Bank and the State,
periodically (and not less than quarterly), reports on the progress of the Project, 
recommending specific corrective actions where required.
Section 2.10. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, CBTU shall, until the completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank, through the PIU, not later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 
of each year, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request (including monitoring indicators related to the targets referred to in Section 
2.01 (b) of this Agreement) on the execution of the Project, the operation of the 
CBTU-RJ System, the compliance of CBTU with its obligations under this Agreement and 
data on the availability of Loan and counterpart funds as required to meet the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement.
(b)
CBTU shall furnish to the State copies of all reports prepared pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.11. CBTU shall establish, not later than ninety days after the date of 
this Agreement, and thereafter maintain until the completion of the Project, a 
management information system (the PMIS) satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor the 
execution of the Project and CBTU's operations in the State until the Operational 
Transfer.
Section 2.12. (a) Not later than November 30, 1993, CBTU shall prepare, in 
Page  4
consultation with the Borrower and the State, and put into effect a detailed plan of 
action (including dates and intermediate targets), satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Financial Plan), to reach a working ratio for CBTU's operations in the State (and 
after the Operational Transfer, for the RJ Entity) not higher than 2.15 by December 
31, 1996. Such plan shall include a specific program of tariff increases and a set of 
operational measures required for the purpose.
(b)
CBTU shall carry out the Financial Plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or repeal such Plan or any 
part thereof.
(c)
Not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year, starting on June 30, 
1994, CBTU shall review with the Borrower, the Bank and the State, and if necessary 
revise, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, such Financial Plan.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"working ratio" means the ratio of total working expenses to total 
operating revenues;
 
(ii)
the term "working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding depreciation and interest 
and other charges on debt; and
(iii)
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
Section 2.13. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, CBTU shall exchange views with the Borrower, the Bank, the State and the RJ 
Entity as provided in Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.14. (a) CBTU shall enter into an agreement with the RJ Entity (the 
Contract), satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to effect the Operational 
Transfer.
(b)
CBTU shall carry out its obligations and exercise its rights under the 
Contract in such a manner so as to protect the interests of CBTU, the Borrower and the 
Bank, and, except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, CBTU shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Contract or any provision thereof, if such assignment, amendment, abrogation 
or waiver shall have, in the reasonable opinion of the Borrower or the Bank, an 
adverse effect on the execution of the Project or the attainment of its objectives.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CBTU
Section 3.01. CBTU shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public transportation 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CBTU shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, including the CBTU-RJ System, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance 
with sound engineering, financial, environmental and public transportation practices.
Section 3.03. CBTU shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CBTU shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
Page  5
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect all resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project.
(b)
CBTU shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
separate accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) hereof for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, CBTU shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CBTU 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CBTU thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
Page  6
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or  permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For CBTU:
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Estrada Velha da Tijuca 77
20531 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Telex:
(21) 22793
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento e
Coordenacao da Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-2207
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CBTU, or by 
CBTU on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
its President or such other person or persons as such President shall designate in 
writing, and CBTU shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS
By /s/ Isaac Popoutchi
Jose Antonio Esposito
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
A.
Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan
 
1.
Decentralization Action Plan of the CBTU-RJ System:
 
In carrying out the decentralization of such System, CBTU and/or the State, as 
indicated below, shall:
(a)
Not later than September 30, 1994, complete a study and an action plan 
for the handover of the CBTU-RJ System to the State. In the action plan, all legal, 
financial and institutional arrangements to be undertaken as well as the inventory of 
assets of CBTU-RJ will be included (CBTU and the State).
(b)
Not later than September 30, 1994, complete a study which will determine 
the long run variable costs of the CBTU-RJ System using the most appropriate methods 
available, will propose the creation of a data base for more accurate costing, and 
will recommend and justify a tariff system
which is cost-based and takes into account modal integration and affordability issues 
(CBTU and the State).
(c)
Not later than September 30, 1994, complete a study and an action plan 
for the setting up of a cost accounting system and management information systems for 
the CBTU-RJ System
(State and CBTU).
(d)
Not later than September 30, 1994, complete a study on the financing 
mechanisms required to cover operating deficits and capital investment, and propose an 
action plan and chronogram for their implementation in the CBTU-RJ System. The 
contributions from the Borrower, the State and MRJ should be clearly identified (CBTU 
and the State).
(e)
Not later than November 30, 1993, and not later than September 30 of each 
year therefore, prepare a detailed contract plan document, satisfactory to the Bank, 
between CBTU and the State, with basic performance and financial targets and 
obligations of each of the parties, provided, however, that any such contract shall be 
between CBTU and the RJ Entity after the Operational Transfer is effected (State or RJ 
Entity).
2.
Management Action Plan of the CBTU-RJ System and other agencies in the 
metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro.
In carrying out such management action plan, CBTU and/or the State, as indicated 
below, shall, not later than September 30, 1994:
(a)
implement a manpower development and organization plan to streamline the 
management and operations staff in CBTU-RJ, to propose concise job descriptions and to 
staff them accordingly (CBTU and the State).
Page  8
(b)
prepare and implement an action plan to improve the management of stocks 
for CBTU-RJ which will include a computerized inventory management to improve internal 
control and prevent lack of spares due to poor programming (CBTU and the State).
(c)
prepare and implement an action plan to subcontract maintenance and other 
operations to the private sector. This plan should be based on a review of the 
operational activities which could be subcontracted to the private sector at 
competitive prices (at least two competing sources) including the staff reductions 
which can be achieved and potential operating savings if those activities are 
subcontracted (CBTU and the State).
(d)
prepare and implement an action and revenue plan through promotion of 
station space, advertising and real estate development in CBTU-RJ. This plan should 
indicate very clearly what are the non-operating revenues which CBTU-RJ can earn 
through promotion of station space, advertising
and real estate development. The study for the preparation of such plan should provide 
a detailed estimate of income and costs and suggest how the proposed plan should be 
implemented, i.e., in-house or through outside parties (the State).
(e)
prepare an action plan to undertake a marketing campaign to improve 
CBTU-RJ System's image and attract new ridership, based on a study which will discuss 
proposals to improve the System's image, the marketing plan to implement them, and the 
incentives to attract new ridership (the State).
(f)
prepare and implement a manpower development and organization plan 
(including training needs assessment) to streamline the management and operations 
staff in the Metro, CTC and CONERJ, to propose concise job descriptions and to staff 
them accordingly (the State).
(g)
prepare and implement an action plan with Metro, CTC and CONERJ, to 
subcontract maintenance and other operations to the private sector. This plan should 
be based on a review of operational activities which could be sub-contracted at 
competitive prices (at least two competing sources) including the staff reductions 
which can be achieved and potential operating savings if those activities are 
sub-contracted.
3.
Financial Studies Action Plan.
 
In carrying out such action plan, CBTU and/or the State, as indicated below, 
shall, not later than 12 months after the date of this Agreement:
(a)
complete a study for the financing of capital and operating subsidies for 
public transportation in the metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro (CBTU and the 
State).
(b)
complete a detailed study to ensure direct targeting of transport 
subsidies to the lowest income segment of the population, identifying the sources of 
such subsidies, including the administration of the concession of such subsidies (CBTU 
and the State).
4.
Modal Integration Action Plan of the CBTU-RJ System.
 
In carrying out the modal integration component of the Project, CBTU and the 
State shall:
(a)
Not later than September 30, 1994, complete a preliminary study and plan 
of action to integrate CBTU-RJ and the Metro, CTC, CONERJ and the MRJ's private bus 
operators systems. Such study will propose alternatives for the physical, 
organizational, and financial integration of the
various systems, and will make recommendations to the State on how to proceed with the 
integration (CBTU and the State).
(b)
Not later than twelve months from the date of this Agreement, prepare a 
transportation plan for the metropolitan region (MRTP) of Rio de Janeiro (including a 
multi-year investment program, with supporting financial, technical and institutional 
arrangements) and a time-table, satisfactory to the Bank, for multimodal transport 
Page  9
integration. The MRTP will be updated to emphasize the integration between CTC, 
CONERJ, private bus operators and the Metro.
5.
Training Action Plan of the CBTU-RJ System.
 
In carrying out the training component of the Project, CBTU and the State shall, 
not later than September 30, 1994:
(a)
complete a training action plan at all levels for the CBTU-RJ, taking 
into account the recommendations of the man-power development and organization plan 
referred to in paragraph 2 (a) above.
(b)
complete a training action plan for selected cadres of CTC, CONERJ and 
Metro agencies, taking into account the recommendations of the manpower development 
and organization studies referred to in paragraph 2 (f) above.
B.
Rehabilitation Component
 
In carrying out the rehabilitation component of the Project, CBTU shall follow 
the schedule indicated in Table 1 attached hereto.
Table 1:  Implementation Program
        ITEMS                             START                     COMPLETION
                                        not later               not later than
                                        than
A. Permanent Way
   1. Purchase of Materials             Oct.  1992              Dec.  1994
   2. Superstructure
Rehabilitation:
        -  Santos-Jundiai               Nov.  1992              Dec.  1994
        -  Leste Main & By-Pass         Nov.  1992              Dec.  1994
   3. Infrastructure                    Nov.  1992              Sept.  1994
      Rehabilitation:                   Nov.  1992              Oct.  1994
        - Leste Main
        - Leste By-Pass
   4. Purchase of Equipment             Nov.  1992              Apr.  1994
   5. Supervision                       Oct.  1992              Dec. 1994
B. Stations
   1. Santos-Jundiai                    Nov.  1992              Dec.  1995
      -  Leste Main                     Oct.  1992              Aug.  1993
      -  Leste By-Pass                  Oct.  1992              Oct.  1993
   2. Supervision                       Aug.  1992              Sept.  1994
C. Systems
   1.  Signaling
       - Works                          Nov.  1992              Dec.  1995
       - Supervision                    Nov.  1992              Dec.  1995
   2.   Electrification
        - Works                         Dec.  1992              Dec.  1994
        - Supervision                   Dec.  1992              Dec.  1994
   3.   Telecommunications
        - Works                         Dec.  1992              June  1996
        - Supervision                   Dec.  1992              June  1996
D. Workshops
   1. Rehabilitation                    Oct.  1992              Nov.  1993
   2. Construction                      Oct.  1992              Nov.  1993
Page  10
   3. Purchase of Equipment             Nov.  1992              Dec.  1993
   4. Supervision                       Oct.  1992              Dec.  1993
E. Rolling Stock
   1.  Modernization                    Nov.  1992              June  1996
   2.  Rehabilitation                   Nov.  1992              Dec.  1994
   3.  Purchase of locomotives          Dec.  1992              June  1994
   4.  Supervision                      Nov.  1992              June  1996
