 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14650

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/02/2015

               Country: Iraq
             Project ID: P087912                                                    Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Iq-tf Emerg. Baghdad         Project Costs (US$M):                      65.0                 63.7
                         Water Supply
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       65.0                61.41
      Sector Board:        Water                      Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                             12/25/2004
                                                                Closing Date:        08/31/2007           06/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Water supply (58%); Roads and highways (23%); Sewerage (9%); Flood protection (5%);
                           Central government administration (5%)
          Theme(s):        Pollution management and environmental health (25% - P); Urban services and housing for
                           the poor (25% - P); Other human development (25% - P); Conflict prevention and
                           post-conflict reconstruction (25% - P)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Maha J. Armaly             Midori Makino          Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The objective of the Project is “to restore basic water supply and sanitation services for the capital city of Baghdad
through: (i) the reconstruction and rehabilitation of existing priority networks and treatment facilities; and (ii) the
provision of capacity building support through training and technical assistance.” (Grant Agreement Schedule 2, p.10)

The Project Development Objective in the Technical Annex, p. 6, is as follows: “To assist in restoring basic water
supply and sanitation services for the capital city of Baghdad through (a) the reconstruction and rehabilitation of
existing priority networks and treatment facilities and (b) providing capacity building support through training and
technical assistance. The Technical Annex further specifies that the project would complement support by other
donors, and also create vitally needed short term employment and help build Iraq's capacity to manage large-scale
reconstruction.

This assessment uses the Project Development Objective as stated in the Grant Agreement.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
 The project includes eight components.

Component 1: Rehabilitation of chlorine and chemical units at Al -Karkh Water Treatment Plant (appraisal cost
US$2.8 million; revised cost US$2.69 million; actual cost US$0.9 million). This includes installation of steel pipes for
the alum network, new alum pumps, special chemical valves and equipment for the alum network and new automatic
chlorinators and their accessories, and rehabilitation of the ventilation system.
Component 2: Rehabilitation of 2B pumping station in Shark Dijla Water Treatment Plant (appraisal cost US$4.5
million; revised cost US$3.37 million; actual cost US$3.4 million). This includes: supply of spare parts for a major
overhaul of main vertical pumps, replacement of defective suction and discharge valves, installation of UPS systems
and batteries, replacement of chlorinators and repair of associated equipment, and capacity building and training of
Baghdad Water Authority operations and maintenance staff.

Component 3: Extension and rehabilitation of Al -Rasheed Water Treatment Plant (appraisal cost
US$7.2 million; revised cost US$0; actual cost US$0 million). This includes: design and construction of a new water
treatment stream, design of an additional new process unit to the existing water treatment plant, rehabilitation and
strengthening of water mains, storage tanks, pumping stations and chlorinators and replacement of chemical and
disinfection stations. This component was financed by the Government.

Component 4: Rehabilitation of the Abu Nuwas Raw Water Pumping Station (appraisal cost US$6.2 million; revised
cost US$6.84 million; actual cost US$6.8 million). This includes: rehabilitation of electrical and mechanical equipment,
control panels and utility connections, and capacity building and training of the operations and maintenance staff.

Component 5: Rehabilitation and renewal of Sadr City Sewerage Network (appraisal cost US$15.0 million; revised
cost US$24.80 million; actual cost US$23.3 million). This includes the installation of lateral sewers and house
connections.

Component 6: Rehabilitation and renewal of Drinking Water Network in Za’afarania (appraisal cost US$15.4 million;
revised cost US$23.78 million; actual cost US$22.2 million). This includes the supply and installation of water pipes
and valves.

Component 7: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building (appraisal cost US$3.9 million; revised cost US$3.7
million; actual cost US$3.8 million). This includes: (i) employment of consultants to support completion of final designs
and tender documents; (ii) employment of consultants for construction supervision; (iii) capacity building activities and
training in Project management and specific technical and commercial areas; (iv) design and implementation of
appropriate accounting, financial management, information, billing and collection, and related systems; (v)
employment of consultants to assess demand characteristics, cost of supply, demand management and tariff
structures; (vi) the carrying out of external audits of Project records and accounts; (vii) employment of consultants to
support Project Management Team ; (viii) provision of office equipment, computer software, vehicles and furniture for
Project Management Team; and (ix) feasibility studies, including environmental impact assessments, environmental
management plans and preparation of detailed designs for potential follow-up projects.

Component 8: Development of a Comprehensive City Development Plan for Baghdad (appraisal cost US$3.0 million;
revised cost US$0.8 million; actual cost US$1.2 million). This includes analysis of the existing conditions and future
trends related to land-use patterns, housing conditions, population, roadways and other infrastructure.
According to the ICR, page 6, the Project components were subject to several revisions cost and scope:

    The 2010 restructuring canceled Component 3 (Extension and Rehabilitation of Al-Rasheed Water Treatment
     Plant), and its implementation was undertaken by the Government using its own funds;

    The 2010 restructuring cancelled phase II, III and IV of Component 8 (Comprehensive City Development Plan ) -
     due to the security situation which did not allow field international staff to hold consultation workshops and
     surveys in Baghdad. The Comprehensive City Development Plan was limited to the preparation of phase I of the
     study and the review of the existing conditions based on existing data;

    The 2011 restructuring changed one of the activities planned under Component 5 (Rehabilitation and Renewal of
     Sadr City Sewerage Network) from works to goods contract, so equipment (vacuum, jetty and CCTV system)
     could be procured to clean the city’s sewers, eliminating the problem of sewer overflow in the streets.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
   Project cost. The cost of the project was estimated at appraisal to be US$65.45 million. At closing, the actual
project disbursement was US$61.7 million.

Financing. A grant of US$65.0 million from the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund financed 100% of project expenditures
except for US$0.45 million in project management staffing, which was funded by the Government.

Borrower contribution . At appraisal the Borrower planned to contribute US$0.45 million towards the cost of Iraqi staff
in the Project Management Team. Actual contribution as reported in the ICR is US$0.45 million equivalent or 100% of
planned. Yet, the ICR (p. 5) indicates that the project did not document this in-kind contribution, and the actual amount
may be over the appraisal amount because the project ran longer than initially conceived and the staffing costs
continued to be borne by the Government.

Dates. There were five project restructurings during implementation:
(i)       May 2006, the closing date was extended for 23 months from August 2007 to July 31, 2009 to provide time to
complete all activities under the project;
(ii)      March 2009, the closing date was extended to June 30, 2010 to accommodate for the difficult security
situation;
(iii)     April 2010, components were modified, reallocation of resources were made, and the closing date was
extended by 18 months, to December 31, 2011 to fully implement the project and meet the Project Development
Objective;
(iv)      December 2011, funds were reallocated amongst components, and the closing date was extended by 18
months to June 30, 2013 to accommodate for the delays caused by the security situation which limited access of the
consultants and contractors to work sites; and
(v)       February 2013, the results framework was modified, funds were reallocated, and the project was extended to
June 2013.

The Mid-term review took place in July/August 2008 in Jordan. This was delayed by two and a half years to allow the
project management team to prepare the mid term review report.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of objectives is substantial. The Project objective is in line with the first Bank Interim Strategy for Iraq dated
January 14, 2004 (p. 10) at the time of Project preparation. One of the main aims of the strategy supported by the
Project was to restore essential infrastructure services by implementing emergency operations to address local
needs.

The project development objectives are also in line with the Government and Bank priorities as outlined in the Country
Strategy Paper (FY13-16) dated November 13, 2012. In 2010, the Government prepared the National Development
Plan 2010-2014 which focuses on environmentally sensitive economic and social development using available natural
resources in a sustainable way. It also aims to strengthen the role of local governments to bring service delivery and
economic development closer to the people (Country Strategy Paper page i). The objective is also consistent with the
Government’s National Development Plan (2013-2017) which contains a goal to reduce poverty through the provision
of basic services.

The overarching objective of the World Bank Group engagement is to support the country’s efforts to build stronger
government institutions and a more diversified and regionally integrated economy that can deliver services and create
jobs. This objective is supported by three pillars (1) improving governance; (2) supporting economic diversification for
broadly-shared prosperity; and (3) improving social inclusion and reducing poverty. (Country Strategy Paper p. 19). In
addition to constraining private sector development, poor public service delivery is identified in the Country Strategy
Paper as a major source of discontent for the Iraqi people. Unleashing growth potential in the non-oil sector will
involve efforts to improve the business environment; expand core infrastructure, especially in roads, water and
electricity. The pressure on housing and basic services, including water and sanitation, is a growing social problem.
Poor water quality and sanitation are serious concerns. The effectiveness of Government agencies to meet the
day-to-day needs of water for domestic and agricultural use and the collection and treatment of waste-water has been
greatly diminished, leading to serious environmental and health risks associated with contaminated water supplies
and inappropriate handling of waste-water disposal (Country Strategy Paper p. 11-12). The Country Strategy Paper
emphasizes the need for capacity building to leverage Iraq’s own resources while delivering needed technical
assistance to enhance capacity of the Government and private sector institutions (p. 16).


 b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of design is Substantial. The project interventions aim to rehabilitate water treatment plants and to extend
water and sewerage networks and are directly linked to the achievement of the objective of restoring water supply
and sanitation services. The design focuses on specific areas with poor and deteriorating infrastructure and is
appropriate in the country context. The technical assistance component supported the training activities, consultancy
services for improving the capacity of the project management team and other sector stakeholders, as well as the
support to develop a comprehensive city development plan is consistent with the objective as well.

The results chain in the results framework was designed to be simple to correspond to Iraq’s security situation, and
aimed at measuring progress of work with less emphasis on outcome.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Achievement of the objective, “to restore basic water supply and sanitation services for the capital city of Baghdad
through: (i) the reconstruction and rehabilitation of existing priority networks and treatment facilities; and (ii) the
provision of capacity building support through training and technical assistance” was Substantial.

While the Project Development Objectives remained the same throughout Project implementation, outcome indicators
were revised in February 2013 to include core sector indicators and to change from quantitative physical targets
(quantity of water produced, sewage collected and water quality) to indicators of beneficiaries reached. The outcome
indicator target for water capacity increase became an intermediate indicator. No baseline or target values were
included in the February 2013 restructuring. The project outcome is evaluated based on the available information on
the key associated outcome indicators and related targets that are relevant for the objective.

Outputs:

(i) reconstruction and rehabilitation of existing priority networks and treatment facilities:

- Out of the four components that aimed to support the water treatment plants and raw water pumping stations, two
were fully completed, and one was cancelled and was implemented by the Government. The two components
focusing on rehabilitation and renewal of water and sewerage networks were completed. Accordingly, most of the
output targets were met:

- water supply production capacity reached 432,000 m3/day vs. 500,000 m3/day planned
- 43.5 km of water supply network were rehabilitated vs. 46 km revised planned, and an original plan of 39 km.
- 1800 sewer connections were made (target had not been set)
- 7125 sewer connections were rehabilitated vs. 8000 planned.
- 87.76 km of sewer networks were rehabilitated vs. 78.50 km planned.
- All works were completed at 100% as planned except for 60% delivery of chlorination equipment installed.

(ii)     provision of capacity building support through training and technical assistance
The two technical assistance components were implemented, and on-the job training was provided by the Bank and
other donors as well, as part of the supervision efforts. With regards to formal training, 306 months of training were
provided vs. 300 months planned.

Outcomes

- 590,440 people (vs. 590,000 planned) were primary beneficiaries of water supply and sewerage investments in
Za’afraniya and Sadr City.
- Indirect beneficiaries are estimated to reach 1.7 million through sewer maintenance equipment, and 3.5 million
through emergency works.,
- 290,496 of these beneficiaries were female vs. 300,000 planned
- 115,440 people in Sadr city benefited directly from sewer connections vs. 90,000 planned
- 475,000 people directly benefited from water supply networks in Za’afraniya.
- 95,000 households benefitted from access to rehabilitated water distribution vs. 100,000 planned.

 5. Efficiency:
    The economic and financial benefits of this project were not quantified at appraisal. The project was expected to
provide improvements in the quality of life of about a million people in Baghdad through the (a) elimination of sewage
backup in streets and homes; and (b) reduction the incidence of oral fecal diseases and the rate of mortality in
children which are most affected by water borne diseases.

The ICR (p. 18) made a rapid assessment of the two sub-components below with the following assumptions: (i)
operation and maintenance cost of the system is 5 percent of the investment costs; (ii) the number of beneficiaries
presented in the ICR; (iii) the government standard of providing 350 lcd of water with a waste-water flow of 90 percent.
The following conclusions were reached in the ICR:

Za’afraniya:
- The net present value of the total cost per person served over the lifetime of the project of 25 years is US$9.07;
- The net present value of the cost of water supplied is US$0.07 per cubic meter;
- Before rehabilitation, consumers were relying on tankers and were reportedly spending 20 percent of the family
income on water. In such a context, the cost benefit ratio – even before taking into consideration any externalities – is
positive;
- In a recent article on the cost of deficient water supplies in Baghdad, it was mentioned that where water
quality is deficient, the incidence of waterborne diseases was markedly higher than where water quality
was up to standard;
- The ICR concludes that the investment is cost-effective when compared to an average price of water supply
distribution network of US$0.75 as mentioned in the literature.

Sadr City:
- The net present value of the total cost per person served over the lifetime of the project of 25 years is
US$103.00;
- The net present value of the cost of water supplied is US$0.90 per cubic meter of waste-water collected;
- In such a context, the cost benefit ratio – even before taking into consideration any externalities – is
likely to be positive;
- The price of waste-water collected is cost –effective when compared to results found in the literature where the cost
of waste-water collection is estimated at US$1.00 per cubic meter of waste-water collected.

The efficiency analysis is limited. The project suffered delays largely due to the security situation, and due to
procurement and contract management issues. The project was extended four times for a total of almost six years.
Costs for the two main components 5 and 6 were about 50% above appraisal. Component 1 was not completed.
Benefits to the health, well-being and living environment of the population are expected to be high but are difficult to
quantify and attribute directly to the Project. The efficiency of the Project is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the objective and design are both rated substantial. The efficacy of the objective is rated
substantial. Efficiency is rated as modest. As a result, overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The risk to development outcome is High. While many of the output targets were achieved, the risks of sustaining
the investments include: (a) political risks given the continued strife in Iraq; and (b) institutional risks inherent to the
sector such as lack of reform and the unsustainable tariffs.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
     The Project was prepared in about 9 months under OP 8.50 for emergency operations. OP8.50 gives leeway
in the readiness for implementation aspects of the Project. Nevertheless, except for the economic analysis and
full environmental assessments of the sub-projects, the Technical Annex provides sufficient details comparable to
regular operations on the readiness of the Project in terms of: (a) the content of the project components, (b)
identification of risks, (c) scheduling of implementation, and (d) fiduciary and safeguard coverage. Annex 10 of
the Technical Annex on Safeguards Assessments provides comprehensive guidance on how to undertake
environmental assessment including, social impact, land acquisition, and cultural property protection and is in
accordance with the agreement for projects financed by the Iraq Trust Fund. This was done against a background
of the difficult security situation in Iraq, the Bank’s relative novice experience in the country, Iraq’s very limited
experiences with the Bank, and the complexity of the fiduciary and safeguard issues involved. The Project
addressed issues of importance to the population, targeted poorer areas of Baghdad, and selected the appropriate
implementing agency. The monitoring and evaluation framework was adequate for the situation at hand, but was
not ready for implementation, in terms of borrower’s staffing, at the time of appraisal.

The Project was over-ambitious in allowing less than 3 years for implementation, knowing the situation is in Iraq,
and given the novelty of the Bank-Iraq relationship.

Quality at Entry Assessment was not undertaken by the Quality Assurance Group.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank’s supervision efforts are rated moderately satisfactory. The Project was implemented in very difficult
circumstances that did not allow for normal supervision to take place. The Bank’s team efforts focused on the
physical progress of the Project, which was difficult enough and hampered by the security situation. The Bank
hired a third party, the Fiduciary Management Agent, to undertaken the supervision of the fiduciary aspects of the
Project. This proved to be successful. The Project team indicated that the Fiduciary Management Agent
undertook procurement, financial management and technical supervision of the works and was very effective.
Bank supervision missions took place regularly, but largely from outside Iraq. Responsibilities were shared
between headquarters and field staff. The Bank team was proactive in adjusting to the critical changes on the
grounds and responded with project restructuring, extension of closing dates, changes in the monitoring
indicators, and provision of training.

The shortcomings in supervision were: (i) the delayed adjustments to the indicators; (ii) late identification (2011)
and resolution of environmental issues; (iii) frequent extensions that affected the efficiency of the project; and (iv)
not remaining involved with sub-components undertaken with government funds, particularly the Comprehensive
City Development Plans (given the emphasis on capacity building and technical assistance).

A Quality of Supervision was not undertaken by the Quality Assessment Group.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Government as represented by the Mayoralty of Baghdad was committed to the Project and its objectives as
part of the National Development Strategy. The Mayoralty of Baghdad provided the necessary staffing for the
Project Management Team from existing staff for the most part, and managed to keep them working on the
Project but dedicated M&E staff was absent, and there were administrative and bureaucratic constraints faced by
the implementing agencies which led to slow progress. The Government provided the funds necessary to
undertake component 3 that was cancelled from the Project. The Mayoralty continued the preparation of the
Comprehensive City Development Plan after cancellation of the contract by the Bank. The issue of payment of
taxes on behalf of consultants and contractors was a shortcoming on the part of the Government’s performance,
however, the task team clarified that this issue was resolved early during implementation.

   Government Performance Rating                                  Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The Project Management Team was undertaking the daily management of the Project on behalf of the Mayoralty
of Baghdad, the Baghdad Water Authority and the Baghdad Sewer Authority. The Project Management Team
was committed to the Project and was successful in working with the Government representatives in fulfilling the
Project’s requirements and hiring the additional necessary legal and environmental staff required, and it became
progressively familiar with Bank procedures and requirements. The Project Management Team focused more on
implementing and monitoring of the physical progress of the Project and less on monitoring of the indicators of
project achievements. Once environmental issues were identified by the Bank’s team, the Project Management
Team addressed the deficiencies identified. The limited knowledge of and guidance on Bank requirements,
particularly on the outcome monitoring made it difficult for the project to have proper data for M&E but on balance,
implementing agency performed well under the challenging environment.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   A basic monitoring and evaluation framework was included in project design which relied on project supervision
reports, mid-term review reports and annual implementation progress reports to monitor and evaluate progress. At the
design stage, monitoring indicators focused on physical progress. The Technical Annex, p. 15, was short on the
responsibilities and methods of monitoring and evaluation, and indicates that a monitoring agent will be assigned to
monitor project developments.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Several changes were introduced to the M&E framework indicators during restructuring. Dedicated M&E staff was
not available in the Project Management Team for most of the duration of the project. Physical progress was
monitored but outputs and outcomes were not accounted for during implementation. Project restructuring of February
2013, only 4 months before project closing, focused on revising the indicators in the results framework to include
sector core indicators to better reflect project outcomes but target value were left as "to be decided (TBD)." In the last
six months of the project a dedicated M&E specialist was recruited, the results framework was restructured to better
account for outcomes.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Data was collected with the objective of complying with World Bank requirement for monitoring the projects
implementation progress. At the end of the Project, the newly hired Project Management Team staff engaged in M&E
to provide data for the ICR and for “post project support” (ICR p. 21).

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The Technical Annex (Annex 10 on safeguards, p. 63) identifies that the Project will trigger OP 4.01 (Environment),
OP 4.12 (involuntary resettlement), OP 11.03 (Cultural Property), and OP 7.50 (International Waters), and gives
detailed instructions on how to deal with these issues for each sub-project. The ICR indicates that the Project triggers
OPs 4.01 and 7.5.

Environment: The project triggered OP 4.01 and was classified as Category B (Partial Assessment) at
Appraisal. All sub-projects would be processed in accordance with the Environmental and Social
Safeguards Assessment Framework (ESSAF) agreed for Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) financed projects (which was
disclosed in the InfoShop). The ESSAF indicated that: (i) all sub-projects would be screened by the Mayoralty Of
Baghdad through ESSAF checklist; (ii) code of practice would be included as parts of civil work and purchase and
installation of equipment contract; and (iii) capacity building would be undertaken on environmental safeguards to
enable Mayoralty Of Baghdad and the Ministry of Environment to address environmental issues that may arise during
the screening and implementation of the components.

Throughout the project implementation period, Environmental Safeguard were mostly rated “Moderately
Satisfactory” as compliance with ESSAF was [not] met on (ICR p. 12): (i) providing additional reporting information; (ii)
improving compliance to general public health and safety measures; (iii) updating and upgrading standard operating
procedure of the Safeguard Focal Point. A monitoring summary of the Environmental Management Plan was a part of
the Quarterly Progress Report all throughout implementation. In 2011 a more detailed reporting on each sub-project
Environmental Management Plan was included, and the newly established Environmental Assessment Department
became responsible for the monitoring the Environmental Management Plan post-construction. Reports were
reviewed by the Project Management Team Safeguards Focal Point and by the environmental consultant.
International Waters : The Bank's policy on International Waterways (OP 7.50) was triggered. The project was drawing
intake water from both the Tigris and Euphrates and their tributaries. At appraisal it was determined that projects fell
within the exception to notification requirement of the policy and a "no objection" was obtained from the Regional Vice
President to this effect. Compliance with this policy was considered Satisfactory as no issues were raised during
implementation.

Social: The ICR states that at appraisal, Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) was not trigged. It was anticipated that
land acquisition and resettlement would be kept to a minimum and all land acquisition would be carried out in
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the ESSAF for Iraq. Annex 10 of the Technical Annex, p. 36 is dedicated to
safeguards and states that sub-projects involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition would only be approved
after preparation of a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank. The ICR indicates that technical specifications in
contracts included provisions to provide unimpeded public access through diversions during project construction. The
project team indicated that works were on existing structures, and no land acquisition or related issues were reported.

Cultural Property: The ICR does not report on Cultural Property (OP4.11). Annex 10 of the Technical Annex, p. 63
indicates that even though extensive earthworks are not anticipated, sub-projects would be reviewed for their impact
on cultural property, and clear procedures would be required for safeguarding finds. The project team indicated that
no finds were reported.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: Procurement during early implementation was rated “Moderately Satisfactory” by 2008 and then raised
to “Satisfactory” rating from 2012 to closing. Nevertheless, the ICR indicates that procurement (mostly the preparation
of bidding documents and evaluation reports) was a major cause for delays. The project provided substantial training
in procurement and financial management to build capacity to support future implementation of projects. A review by
the Bank Integrity Vice-Presidency identified that one of the suppliers misrepresented the amount of commissions
paid to an agent.

Financial Management: Throughout project implementation period, Financial Management was generally rated “
Moderately Satisfactory” with some dips towards “Moderately Unsatisfactory” during 2007-09. The project’s overall
financial management arrangement was adequate, including staffing, financial reporting, and annual external auditing
requirements, sound internal controls and funds flow without major interruptions, with some delay in fixed asset
register reporting (complied with before project closing). Financial management was outsourced to a private
company as the Bank's Fiduciary Monitoring Agent for the Iraq Trust Fund- and IDA-financed projects. After a difficult
start, and with substantial training, the contractor became familiar with Bank procedures and was able to allocate the
required resources when necessary. The overall performance of the financial management team improved during the
later stages of project implementation as Project Management Team familiarity with Bank procedures increased.

The ICR does not report on the engagement of an external auditor, or on receipt and opinions of audits. The task
team indicated that all audit reports were received in a timely manner, were unqualified and the financial management
team followed up on comments.


 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The Bank and other donors provided considerable technical assistance and training thus contributing to institutional
strengthening.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                  IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory              Moderately             While the relevance of the objective
                                                        Satisfactory           and design, and efficacy of the
                                                                               objective are rated substantial,
                                                                               efficiency is rated as modest. As a
                                                                               result, overall outcome is rated
                                                                               moderately satisfactory.
          Risk to Development High                      High
                     Outcome:
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following lessons are drawn.

(a) Designing and implementing M&E frameworks, especially with regards to monitoring measurable outcomes in
conflict situations is complex and difficult, calling for a focus on priority investments and related outputs with the
view of building the country's capacity to monitor outcomes in the longer run.
(b) Emergency project, prepared in a short period of time, and allowing less rigorous preparation, would benefit
from revisiting to finalize loose ends, such as the M&E framework, scheduling, and capacity building in the early
stages of implementation.
(c) Bank intervention in reconstruction following a conflict is beneficial in returning a semblance of normalcy to the
lives of affected people, yet conflicts have severe impact on project progress and therefore identification of such
risks upfront would be crucial..

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR reports on the complicated progress of the Project and the several changes that had taken place. It provides
candid discussions of the shortcomings in the implementation of the Project. However, the ICR quality suffers from
lack of proof reading and editing that led to inconsistencies in the document and deficiencies in the analysis.
Shortcomings in the ICR include:
1. The ICR is not consistent with the Technical Annex on safeguards triggered. According to Annex 10, in Technical
Annex, p. 63, the project triggered Bank policies on environment, international waters, resettlement, and cultural
property. The ICR reports only on the environment (international waters safeguard was covered prior to project
approval). The Environmental Category in the data sheet is listed as C, while it is listed as B on page 11 and in the
Technical Annex.
2. The efficiency section discusses net present value of costs, instead of present value of costs, or net present values
(of benefits less costs). The number of beneficiaries used in the analysis is not clear.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
