                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                     Report No: 25102 SL

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-23560)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28.89 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                 GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE

                                                 FOR A

                                POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                               June 6, 2003




Energy Unit
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective at project appraisal)

                            Currency Unit = Leone
                                      Le 1 = US$ 0.0004797
                                    US$ 1 = 2084

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1- December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EIB      European Investment Bank
EC       Commission of the European Community
EDF      Electricite de France
GoSL     Government of Sierra Leone
GTZ      German Technical Cooperation Agency
IDA      International Development Association
ISS      Interim Support Strategy
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
LRMC     Long-Run Marginal Cost
MLEP     Ministry of Labor Energy and Power
MOF      Ministry of Finance
NPA      National Power Authority
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PPIAF    Public/Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
UNOPS    United Nations Office for Project Services

                          Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
              Country Manager/Director:       Mats Karlsson
                         Sector Manager:      Praful Patel
                       Task Team Leader       Richard M. Senou

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
    SIERRA LEONE POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 2356-SL)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Borrower's comments                                                     29

Project ID: P002411                                                      Project Name: SL POWER REHAB
Team Leader: Richard Mahougnon Senou                                     TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 3, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: SL POWER REHAB                                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-23560
   Country/Department: SIERRA LEONE                                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Power (100%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other
                            urban development (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    03/02/1987                                        Effective: 05/24/1993              05/24/1993
   Appraisal:    10/27/1989                                            MTR:
    Approval:    04/21/1992                                         Closing: 03/31/1997               06/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF SIERRA LEONE/NATL POWER AUTHORITY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:          Mats Karlsson                                       Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:            Praful Patel                                        Mary Oakes Smith
Team Leader at ICR:        Richard M. Senou                                    Jahangir Boroumand
ICR Primary Author(s): Richard M.Senou; Mathew
                           Mitchell
MTR 07/04/1996
2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The original objectives of the Sierra Leone Power Rehabilitation Sector Project were to:

(a) Assist the National Power Authority (NPA) to implement long-delayed maintenance and rehabilitation
of its Western Area generation,
sub-transmission, and distribution facilities, as well as replace some generating units, so as to restore an
adequate and reliable supply of electricity.

(b) Strengthen NPA as an institution in order to lay the foundations for an autonomous and commercially
viable entity capable of providing a reasonably-priced and reliable service to its customers.

(c) Assist the Government in developing a comprehensive power sector development policy.

Importance of the Objectives to the Country and their Relevance to the Country Assistance Strategy
and Government Priorities. The project objectives reflected the priorities of IDA and the Government in
the power sector at the time of appraisal. On the physical side, they were to restore reliable supply of
power and adequate service levels in the Western Area, the location of the capital, Freetown and major
businesses. On the institutional side, they were to improve the managerial capabilities and institutional
structure of NPA through institutional and organizational reforms for enhanced operating efficiency and
financial viability of NPA. Also, looking to the future, IDA was assisting the Government of Sierra Leone
to evaluate the least-cost development of the power system using the country's significant hydropower
potential.

The appraisal of the project had a long history. The initial appraisal took place in 1985. However, the
project did not advance further for seven years. During this time period there was a five-year general
suspension of all disbursements for Sierra Leone due to political instability that had resulted in substantial
arrears on Bank credits. IDA reappraised the project in 1989 and approved it on April 2, 1992. The
two-year lag time between appraisal and approval was due to Government inability to meet tariff
adjustment conditionalities, to recruit a suitable management contractor, and uncertainty about overall
Government's commitment to the Project. By the time the Bank had approved the project, the physical
condition of the power system had deteriorated substantially.

By 1991, Western Area's installed capacity had dropped dramatically from 34 MW to only 6.5 MW due to
poor maintenance, a shortage of spare parts and inadequate technical skills of NPA staff. NPA, the public
company responsible for the power sector, was operationally and financially weak. A General Manager
appointed by a Board of Directors, was in charge of NPA's operations. The functions of the Board and the
General Manager were not adequately defined. Overall, the General Manager had too much authority with
inadequate delegation to middle management. At the same time, he had very little independence in
decision-making and required Board approval for even the smallest expenditures. There was no clear
accountability in organizational functions, and responsibility for overall sector management was ill-defined.

The project's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) indicated that NPA was highly overstaffed. In 1991, total
staff amounted to 1453 for about 35,000 consumers. The resulting ratio of customers per employee was
low at 23:1 compared to 110:1 for Senegal and 120:1 for Ghana. Despite an excessive number of
employees, the company had an extreme shortage of skilled staff. Low wages limited its ability to retain
skilled staff.

NPA had been receiving a considerable amount of technical assistance from the German Development
Agency (GTZ) and IDA under the Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 1265-SL).
However, this assistance was not successful in substantially improving the performance of the utility. At
the time of project appraisal, Electricite de France (EDF) reviewed NPA's situation. EDF argued that the


                                                      - 2 -

strengthening of the company's management required new ideas, outside expertise and large technical and
managerial inputs from an experienced utility or consulting firm. Generally, technical assistance in the past
had not been effective for two reasons. First, the Government initially was reluctant to allow foreign
experts to assume managerial positions inside the utility. Second, experts lacked a well-defined function
within the utility.

The development of the power sector had been slow due to a number of factors. The economy had been
stagnant. An extreme shortage of cash in the country had resulted from past heavy commitments in
suppliers' credits and short-term loans. In the power sector, the main cause of the cash shortage had been
Government's refusal to raise electricity tariffs in the face of steeply rising fuel costs. Thus, when the Bank
approved the project in 1992, the power sector had long been in a state of advanced physical and financial
disrepair, due to years of neglect and poor management.

From the Government's perspective, a primary objective in the power sector was the development of the
country's substantial hydropower resources - estimated at 1,300 MW - to lessen dependence on the thermal
system, which was costly to operate and maintain. In this context, Government considered the Bumbuna
Power scheme as the corner stone of its power development strategy. When IDA decided not to participate
in the financing of the construction of the Bumbuna Project without an adequate institutional framework
for power development and in the absence of a competent and efficient management team at the helm of
NPA, relations with the Bank soured further. This is partly the reason for the long time lag between
appraisal and approval of the project. Finally, IDA acquiesced to include in the financing of the project an
environmental impact assessment study of the Bumbuna Hydropower Project and related impact mitigating
measures, as well as construction supervision services, including those of a Resident Expert.

Clarity and Realism of Objectives. The physical objectives were straightforward and directly responded
to the needs of the power system. There was a considerable amount of unavailable capacity. The system
needed restoration urgently. The project's institutional objective was also clear: NPA needed
improvement, as indicated by inadequate managerial and technical capacity, and the project contained a
conditionality that defined indicators for monitoring NPA's progress. The project took into account a past
lesson learned about having major actions take place before Board presentation. For example, the key
element in achieving the project's objectives was the hiring of a consulting company or utility to manage
NPA according to a performance-based contract. Without this contract, the project's objectives would
have been highly unrealistic. Therefore, the Bank insisted on reaching an agreement with the Borrower on
the major elements of the management contract which the bidding documents were to reflect. These
included revisions of the NPA Act of 1982 to clarify the utility's responsibilities and a set of financial
objectives for the company.

3.2 Revised Objective:

In 1991, the Bank reviewed the project's objectives in light of a civil conflict that began prior to Board
approval and escalated during the project's implementation period. The attacks by rebels that began
sporadically in 1991 gradually spread throughout the country. GDP per capita, estimated at US$237 in
1990, declined by about 40% during the subsequent decade, to about US$142 in 2000. Ten years of
conflict that left more than 20,000 people dead and about a million and a half people displaced. In
addition, the conflict caused major economic disruptions that worsened poverty.

The Lome Peace Agreement of July 1999 ended the civil conflict. Prior to this agreement, the fragile
security environment in the country precluded normal Bank supervision activities. The quality of the
country portfolio deteriorated, and received an overall rating of unsatisfactory. However, the Bank



                                                       - 3 -

continued management of the portfolio on an informal basis. Sierra Leone stayed current in servicing its
debt to the Bank. Supervisory teams from the Bank met with project implementation staff in Conakry and
Abidjan. The 1999 peace agreement has provided Sierra Leone with the opportunity to rebuild itself.
However, intermittent war-related activities through early 2000, have caused extensive damage to an
already inadequate economic and social infrastructure including the power sector. During this period the
management contract with the foreign firm ended in 1997, leaving NPA with a partially restored power
generation capacity, but still in a poor financial situation. Under the leadership of a local interim NPA
Manager between 1997 and 1999, the situation deteriorated further, with hostilities expanding all the way
to Freetown and its environs.

At the end of 1999, the Bank approved an Interim Support Strategy (ISS) for the Republic of Sierra Leone.
The main vehicle for implementing this strategy was the agreement of IDA and the Government to explore
the possibility of utilizing about US$20 million of the Bank's US$82 million undisbursed for seven projects
in the portfolio to finance urgent rehabilitation and resettlement activities. The ISS cited the rehabilitation
of the power sector as one of the areas of priority attention.

The priorities of the ISS were in line with the project's overall objectives, therefore, the Bank decided not to
revise and formally restructure the project. However, confronting reality, the project, as a matter of
necessity, was turned into an emergency operation, and hence, it was restructured by putting more
emphasis on restoring Freetown's power generation capacity, to meet the emergency needs of the power
system. Meeting the project's institutional and other objectives, per force, became secondary. For the
institutional development objectives, the restructured project only sought to lay the foundation for future
development of the power sector, through a study of a restructured power market in Sierra Leone, and
sensitization of Government and other concerned parties on possible options for future development. For
quick restoration of power generation capacity, as a proposed recourse to an independent power provider
failed to elicit a response, decision was taken to procure, some quick-to-install, additional diesel power
generators, since rehabilitation of existing units would still be too time consuming. These additional
generators were to be ultimately transferred to provincial stations where the demand for their use would be
intermittent, and more appropriate for this type of equipment. For this purpose the Bank reallocated more
of the project's funds to securing additional power generation equipment and to the physical rehabilitation
of the power system. Thus, funds from other projects were also tapped to finance power sector related
components within these projects. These reallocations of credits proceeds transferred funds within existing
slow/non-disbursing credits from institutional components to physical components, thus limiting the extent
to which the power project could achieve its original institutional objectives. Expectations were that
resources would be made available in the future to complete the execution of the above-mentioned projects.
Under these circumstances, the Bank response seemed appropriate, as no other quick way of getting
additional resources was identified. The outcome however, was to penalize the execution of projects'
components under other projects, such as the Freetown Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, that was left
with insufficient funds to meet commitments under existing contracts.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. The project's components, summarized from the SAR, are the following:

Investments

        Rehabilitation of existing generation and transmission capacity: (i) the Kingtom powerhouse and
two of its Sulzer diesel units; (ii) 28 km of damaged underground 11-kv lines; (iii) 60 km of low -voltage
lines; and (iv) substations.



                                                       - 4 -

        Installation of new generation and transmission infrastructure: (i) two 5-MW medium-speed diesel
units for the Kingtom and Blackhall Road power plants; (ii) a 3.5 -km transmission line from the Kingtom
Power Station to the Wilberforce and rehabilitation of the Congo Cross-Mammy Yoko line; (iii) 23-km of
11-kv lines and 4 km of underground cables; and (iv) transformer capacity.

        Other investments: (i) spare parts for new rehabilitated and new generation capacity; (ii)
replacement of 5,000 meters and house service drops; (iii) communications and data processing equipment;
and (iv) installation of an oil/water separator and an incinerator to avoid spilling oil into the sea.

Technical Assistance and Studies

        Consultants'services to: (i) manage NPA for three years on a performance-based contract; (ii)
review NPA's tariff structure; (iii) review NPA Act of 1982 to provide NPA with adequate autonomy
from the Government and responsibility of NPA's Board and Management; (iv) prepare pre-qualification
and bidding documents to hire a Management Contractor for NPA; and (v) supervise the construction of
the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project; and

        Studies for: (i) Master Plan for Power System Expansion, (ii) Environmental Impact of the
Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project, and (iii) Consolidation of Energy Sector Activities in the Ministry of
Energy and Power.

        Engineering services to: (i) prepare the specifications and tender documents for the project's
investment components and (ii) the review of NPA's tariff structure.

3.3.2      The project's physical components supported the project's physical objectives. They had the
benefit of preparatory work under the Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Credit. The institutional
components responded to both the immediate and future needs of the sector. The immediate need was for a
management contractor to help NPA implement the project which was complex. It consisted of major
rehabilitation work, consulting services, engineering services and studies. For the future, the project
addressed the institutional arrangements for the management of the sector through a study for the
consolidation of energy sector activities in the Ministry of Energy and Power. It also addressed the
potential development of a major hydropower project to reduce high power system costs which severely
constrained NPA's prospects for profitability. Even at a tariff of nearly 20 US cents per kWh - among the
highest in the world - NPA was unable to substantially improve its financial viability. The hydropower
study was a priority for the Government because hydro resources offered the potential to substantially
reduce the cost of power. NPA's capacity to implement the project was adequate with the assurance of an
experienced power system management contractor operating the utility. Furthermore, the project required:
(a) the delegation of sufficient operational authority to the contractor; (b) the linkage of the contractors
compensation to clear performance indicator.

3.3.3    The major shortcoming in the project's design was the lack of adequate risk analysis. Sierra Leone
was definitely a high-risk environment. The power system had virtually collapsed and the financial
condition of the utility was critical. There was a long backlog of system maintenance that needed Bank
financing because the utility was not generating enough funds for repairs and fuel. Power tariffs were high
and service was substandard. Furthermore, civil conflict was brewing. The SAR analysis focuses mainly
on evidence of government commitment based on action it had to take before the Bank would approve the
project. However, the SAR, which did not evaluate the threat to the stability of the Government despite



                                                      - 5 -

signs of potential conflict, placed too much emphasis on the management contract as a mitigating factor
relative to surrounding political environment and on the history of poor management contract performance.

3.4 Revised Components:

In 2000, the Bank restructured its entire portfolio of credits in Sierra Leone to meet the country's
emergency needs in a post-conflict situation. During most of the conflict period - from about 1992 to 1999
- the Bank had rated its entire portfolio for Sierra Leone as unsatisfactory. For the power sector, the
Government had appointed at the helm of NPA, in late 1999, a competent local firm that previously ran the
country's rutile mine power system. The Government then requested, and IDA agreed, to finance about
US$5.2 million for: (i) the procurement of three additional high speed 1.2 to 1.5 MW generators; (ii) the
overhaul of the Sulzer 5 unit; (iii) repair to an existing Mitsubishi 5 MW Unit; (iv) de-watering of the
Kingtom Power station; and (v) acquisition of spare parts for the Kingtom generators. As the energy
supply situation improves and stabilizes in Freetown, the Government has agreed to transfer the three units
to the provincial centers, where the lack of power has crippled the effective functioning of health and water
supply facilities. As funds from reallocation within the project were not sufficient to finance the entire
emergency program for the power sector, the Government agreed to allocate funds from the Urban Water
Supply (Cr. 2702-SL) and Integrated Health Sector Investment (CR. 2895-SL) for these activities.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) has not reviewed the project. With hindsight, the ICR has assessed
the quality at entry as unsatisfactory. Despite the importance of the project to the country and clear
objectives, the project, at entry, took place in a very high risk situation and did not contain a substantive
risk analysis, including mitigation measures. As it turned out, the political situation was the major risk and
there was no mention of it in the SAR. Also, the mitigation measures relied too heavily on a
performance-based management contract with a utility or consulting firm to offset two decades of
inefficiencies in the sector.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The final status report for the project (PSR) rated the outcome as satisfactory, mainly based on the
 successful emergency action program following the restructuring of the project in 2000. Restoration of
 power system capacity in the Western Area and laying the foundation for private sector development in the
 power sector were the main objectives of the restructured project. These objectives were substantially
 achieved as measured by the outcome/ impact indicators in Annex 1. Actual gross power generation and
 energy available for sale exceeded projected figures. Fuel efficiency and specific lube consumption,
 billing, as % of energy available for sale, the ratio on the number of customers per employee and
 measurement of non -Goverment receivables, all improved. The ICR, in its evaluation, has had to
 consider additional factors in its assessment of outcome according to ICR Guidelines. Given the presence
 of force majeure (the civil armed conflict), the issue is whether to evaluate the project's outcome based on
 original or revised objectives. If the force majeure had been the major factor affecting the project outcome
 and, at the same time, all other aspects of the project had been satisfactory, then the ICR could have
 evaluated the project based on revised objectives. However, the ICR has rated the project based on its
 original objectives for four reasons. First, in addition to the force majeure, there were other factors within
 the control of IDA and the Borrower that were unsatisfactory, such as: (a) delays in achieving most of the
 major implementation indicators (output indicators in Annex I), which should have been in place before



                                                        - 6 -

 the full conflict erupted; and (b) deficiencies in project design and restructuring. The major conflict began
 in 1997 and the rating of unsatisfactory during 1997-2000 reflects the force majeure. However, project
 status reports during 1994-96 also rated the project unsatisfactory due to other factors, mainly
 implementation delays and poor financial performance. Second, IDA did not change the project's
 objectives at the time of restructuring , i.e., aligning them specifically to the new action program. As
 noted in the sections below on project outputs, the project has only partially achieved its objectives.
 Third, the re-estimated ERR is only eight percent, which is below the ten percent that is usually required
 for a satisfactory project. Fourth, the ICR has rated the project's sustainability as unlikely, as NPA' s
 capacity to finance any major repairs outside routine maintenance on existing units is nil. A follow-up
 project for further institutional support and additional transmission and distribution infrastructure that is
 necessary to support efficient operation of the power system is only in the initial concept stage. Also, the
 project did not complete its power sector development policy support related to the completion of the
 Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project. This project, according to the SAR, was to be completed in parallel with
 the Power Sector Rehabilitation Project. Low-cost power from Bumbuna was to become available from
 1998 onward. However, at project closing, the Bumbuna project was about 85 percent complete, with the
 final completion date and institutional arrangements still uncertain. This has negatively affected the
 project's internal rate of return as Bumbuna's power production as from 1998 onward was factored in the
 project's economic analysis. Considering all of the above factors, the ICR has rated the overall project's
 outcome as unsatisfactory.


4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1      Physical Components. The project's new generation and rehabilitation components have
restored available generating capacity from a low of 6 MW around the time of appraisal to 34 MW at
project closing. This restored capacity level is equivalent to the installed capacity of the power system
more than a decade ago. In April 2002, the 6.3 MW Mirrlees unit that the project financed failed after only
1500 hours of operation. This unit is now functioning normally. However, the Government remains
uncertain about the unit's reliability and has asked IDA to secure an extended warranty from the
manufacturer. The project only partially completed its transmission and distribution system components
due to the civil conflict and the limited availability of donor funding. These improvements have contributed
to power loss reduction, but overall losses are still high, at about 37%. The project focused its
rehabilitation of the public lighting system on strategic parts of the city of Freetown for security reasons.
In support of NPA's commercial operations, the project procured communications and data processing
equipment to improve the management information system including accounting, billing, payroll, budget
control, and associated activities.

4.2.2      Institutional Strengthening of NPA. The project only partially met its objectives for the
institutional strengthening of NPA. There were four successive management teams operating NPA during
the project's implementation. The first team and Board that managed NPA under the Technical Assistance
Credit were fired at project's inception in 1992. A contractor, from a private utility company, came on
board in 1994 and managed NPA for three years. His performance in daily operation was satisfactory, but
weak in power system planning, financial planning and related training. The third Manager was the local
deputy Manager who succeeded the foreign contractor at the end of the management contract in 1997 until
2000, but, mainly because of civil strife, he was not able to sustain the achievements under previous
management contracts.

4.2.3      From 2000, a new contractor heading a three-person local team from the private sector has
managed NPA, until April 2003, achieving some significant improvements. The billing of customers now



                                                        - 7 -

takes place within a maximum of 30 days after power consumption. Accounts receivable has declined
significantly from 14 months of sales to 6 months of sales. The average power tariff has increased
substantially, from 7.7 US cents to 19.9 US cents. However, the utility is collecting only 80% of the
electricity sales it bills from non-governmental customers. Furthermore, the collection rate from
Government customers is extremely low, about 10 percent. Overall, internal cash generation is still poor.
The total number of paying customers not exceeding 50%.

4.2.4       Currently, NPA remains unprofitable. The average cost per unit of sales exceeds the tariff by as
much as 54%. The utility will therefore continue to rely on government subsidies for its operations and on
external donors for capital investment, until power sector reforms have strengthened the utility enough for it
to become self-financing. On the policy side, the project supported the revision of the NPA Act to separate
the responsibilities of NPA's Board from the company's management-level staff. The current management
contract has incorporated the revisions to the Act. Furthermore, the project, through seminars and studies
has established a foundation for future private sector participation in the development of the power sector.

4.2.5       The project completed about 50% of the required training program, as agreed between the
Government and NPA. This training included the secondment of engineers and accountants to industrial
utilities, both in developing and developed countries (Ghana and the United Kingdom). It also included
short-term, in-house training activities. Reports indicate that these courses have proven useful for
enhancing job performance. Although NPA remains overstaffed, the customer-per-employee ratio has
improved significantly from 23:1 to 63:1. This ratio, however, is still significantly lower than industry
standards in Africa.

4.2.6       Studies in Support of Sector Policy and Development. The project financed studies to support
the future least-cost development of the power sector and the institutional development of NPA. The
project produced final draft reports for the following three studies. (i) a twenty-year master plan for
generation and transmission expansion of NPA; (ii) an environmental impact assessment of the Bumbuna
hydroelectric project; and (iii) a study on the consolidation of energy-related activities under the Ministry of
Energy and Power. The Government has implemented two parts of the Master Plan: (i) the
technical/financial and managerial audit of NPA; and (ii) part of the bidding process for the interim power
supply in Freetown. However, the Government has not fully implemented the recommendations of all the
studies.

4.2.7       The preparatory work for the institutional development of the power sector is progressing. A
key achievement in this direction is the Government's completion on a study financed by Public/Private
Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) to prepare and possibly implement a detailed private sector
participation strategy. The project completed the environmental assessment in 1994/95 but mitigation
activities have yet to be completed. The Bank also was to finance technical assistance - a Resident Expert
and a Board of Consultants - to oversee and monitor construction of the Bumbuna Hydropower
Development Project, which was receiving financing from the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the
Italian Government. However, with the civil conflict this assistance never materialized.

4.2.8      An audit of the Bumbuna Project took place in 2002, with financing from the African
Development Bank. The audit report has commended the Bumbuna project, which would bring an
additional capacity of 50 MW with a potential capacity of up to 200 MW. It offers the opportunity to: (a)
substantially reduce the cost of power, from US$.20 per kWh to about US$.04 to US$.05 per kWh; (b)
provide the basis for developing a national power grid; and (c) create power export revenues for the
country. The latest cost estimate is about US$200 million, of which about US$39 million remains to be
financed. There are several important issues that need resolution before the project's completion, including


                                                      - 8 -

unpaid claims called for by contractors and the future ownership and operation of the Bumbuna facilities.
While NPA, according to law, is responsible for hydropower development in Sierra Leone and has a
representative on the project's steering committee, it is not responsible for the project's execution. A private
contractor has offered to operate the Bumbuna facilities; however, the Bank and AfDB have cautioned the
Government that a reformed institutional framework needs to be in place first, and that the award of any
contract to run the operations of Bumbuna should be done through a competitive bidding process.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1     The ICR has used the same approach in estimating the internal economic rate of return (IERR) as
the SAR. However, several assumptions made in the SAR did not materialize due to the socioeconomic
and political crisis that affected the project's implementation. These include: (i) increases in power
generation capacity; (ii) reductions in the system's technical losses; and (iii) cost savings from the reduction
of auto-generation. The main factors affecting the analysis were: (i) delays in planned rehabilitation; (ii)
cost overruns; (iii) the loss of project property; and (iv) increase in technical losses during the project's
implementation period. Furthermore, the completion of the Bumbuna hydroelectric project did not take
place in 1998, as expected. This would have had a major impact on reducing the high cost of thermal
generation. All of these factors have resulted in a re-estimated internal economic rate of return of 8 percent
compared to an estimate of 28.2 percent at project appraisal. Annex 3 provides the details of the analysis.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1     There was no covenant requiring the calculation of the financial rate of return.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional objectives were to: (i) revise the 1982 NPA Act to provide NPA with an adequate
autonomy from GoSL by clearly defining the functions and responsibilities of its Board and Management;
(ii) retain the services of a qualified private firm to manage NPA on behalf of Government; and (iii) train
NPA staff overseas with a utility with relevant operating experience, preferably in a developing country as
well as assigning counterpart staff to the expatriate management team and at the local GTZ training school.
The 1982 NPA Act was revised as a condition of credit effectiveness. This revision has not changed
fundamentally the behavior of either the Government or the Board as they continue to exert direct control of
NPA as evidenced by the replacement of management contractors at a critical juncture in project
implementation. Under the management firms' stewardship, there were some improvements in the
efficiency and performance of the utility as measured by performance indicators embodied in the contract,
but the achievements were short of SAR targets. Training was provided to NPA staff as per the objectives
but most of the trainees did not return to the country upon completion of the training. Recognizing the
limited achievements of these objectives, the restructured project puts more emphasis on restoring power
generation capacity and laying the foundations for future development of the sector, through a
PPIAF-financed study to restructure the power industry in Sierra Leone.




                                                        - 9 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Civil Armed Conflict. The factor that most adversely affected the project was the civil-armed conflict.
This conflict began with rebel attacks as early as 1991. It continued sporadically for nearly a decade. It
had devastated the economy and the social fabric of the country. The conflict caused the United Nations to
impose sanctions on the illegal junta in 1997. The devastation of the conflict and the sanctions constrained
macroeconomic growth and reduced living standards of the people.

During the project's implementation period, about 50 percent of the population fled the country. Many
industrial and commercial enterprises closed. As a result, NPA's customer base declined. The collection of
receivables from the impoverished population became a daunting task, severely constraining NPA's
finances. Production facilities deteriorated due to physical damage and the lack of funds for preventive
maintenance. Further exacerbating the deterioration of power facilities was a fire at a power plant in
1995, which led to a six-month shut own .

Devaluation of the National Currency. The devaluation of the national currency (the Leone) dramatically
increased the cost of thermal power production. This increased cost, combined with declining revenue,
rendered NPA wholly dependent on Government subsidies for its operations. However, during the conflict
situation the Government also lacked sufficient foreign exchange for spare parts and fuel.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Continuous Government intervention in NPA Management. The first period in project implementation
was characterized by a six-month delay in project effectiveness due in part to changes in NPA's Board
(1993) and General Manager. The Government replaced them with a whole new team that was unfamiliar
with the Project. A high turnover, in the management of NPA (five changes in nine years) and the
Government's propensity for continuous intervention in the management of NPA has had a deleterious
effect on NPA's performance.

Inadequate Action on Tariffs and Measures to Reduce Production Costs. Although the Government
recently has conceded considerable resources for power plant rehabilitation and additional generating
capacity, its response on tariff increases has always been too little and/or too late. This inadequate response
has considerably hampered NPA's recovery and created a drain on NPA's finances. Furthermore, the
Government and NPA have not taken sufficient measures to reduce costs.

Delinquent Payment of Government Power Bills. Another factor contributing to the unsatisfactory
financial performance of NPA has been the failure of the Government and its entities to pay their electricity
bills. This Government practice affected NPA throughout the project, resulting in constant financial
problems for the utility and constraining the independence of the utility.

Commitment to Improving NPA's Management. On the positive side of NPA's institutional development,
the Government supported the hiring of a local consulting firm in 2000 to implement an emergency action
plan to salvage the ailing utility. This firm has made substantial progress in helping to reverse the
downward trend in the utility's performance and establish the basis for future financial viability.




                                                     - 10 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Overall Weak Management. One factor that has diminished the effectiveness of NPA is its lack of
capacity for forward planning, focusing instead on day-to-day operations. The organization has for many
years lacked internal cohesion and the procedures and systems necessary for proper functioning of a power
utility.

Bill collection. NPA has generally been lax in its billing and collection efforts, and in implementing a
comprehensive loss reduction program (para. 4.4).

Implementation of Cost Reduction Measures. NPA's current ratio of consumers per staff (1:63), is a
significant improvement compared to the 23:1 at the time of project appraisal. However, it is still very low
by industry standards. One significant cost reduction measure the utility could have taken during the
project's implementation was staff reduction through attrition. However, NPA has not had the autonomy
nor the resources to take such measures on its own.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The SAR estimated overall project costs estimated at a US$74.5 million. Of this total, IDA was to provide
US$21 million, and co-financiers US$36.2 million. The estimated Government contribution was US$12.7
million, including an equity participation of US$2.5 million. Interest during construction was to amount to
an estimated US$4.5 million. The total estimated actual project costs were US$98.96 million.

The financing of the project, by co-financier, was as follows: IDA, US$21.0 million; EIB, US$16.75, EU;
US$15.0 million, and JICA, US$10.3 million. For the emergency action program, IDA provided additional
financing through the reallocation of funds from other IDA Credits. In order to purchase three 1.2 MW
high-speed generators, IDA provided US$3.5 million from Credit 2728-SL. In addition, IDA reallocated
US$1.7 million from Credit 2702-SL and US$2.0 million from ERCII to complete the rehabilitation of
existing power units.

On the institutional side, UNOPS provided US$0.5 million to finance part of NPA's management's
contract as well as consultant services for maintenance planning in the generation and distribution system.
The total estimated actual contribution from the Government and NPA amounted to US$35.08 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project's objectives, at present, is unlikely for four reasons. First, unless the
economy improves substantially, NPA's internally generated resources will be insufficient to cope with the
rising cost of fuel and the maintenance requirements beyond routine maintenance of aging thermal units.
Second, the availability of power from facilities constructed for the Bumbuna Hydroelectric project, the
least-cost solution for power development, is uncertain because of: (a) unresolved contractual disputes
concerning the cost overrun; and (b) the lack of firm financing for the remaining 15 percent of the project
facilities. Third, the existing power generation capacity, though restored to its pre-conflict level of about 34
MW, is still well below demand. Fourth, a follow-up multi-sectoral infrastructure development project
covering transportation, water, and energy is only in the initial concept stage.



                                                      - 11 -

Continued rehabilitation of the existing transmission and distribution infrastructure is also essential for
sustaining the physical integrity of the power system. Reductions in network losses would contribute
substantially to alleviating the demand on the power plants. However, improved system maintenance and
system expansion depend on the availability of funds NPA can generate internally combined with external
assistance. Despite operational improvements, NPA's expected revenues (from collection) remain far from
covering operating costs. Moreover, the culture for preventive maintenance planning is in its infancy.
Under these circumstances, the danger of overtaxing the power generating capacity of existing units is
substantial. Also, currently there are no firm commitments of external funding for the power sector.

In order to sustain the project's physical and institutional objectives, there is need for a follow-up project to
support power system development and introduce several key power sector reforms. These reforms should
include: (a) provision of an adequate policy framework and strategy; (b) continued manpower development
through the rationalization of NPA's work force; and (c) training at all levels. The creation of an
environment conducive for the participation of the private sector in power system development is central to
sustaining the project's physical and institutional objectives. The Government has shown some signs of
progress in that area. With financial support of PPIAF, the Government has explored the prospect of
private sector participation by: (a) holding a conference and stakeholder sensitization activities; and (b)
commissioning a study for the restructuring of the country's power market. The successful implementation
of a proposed multi-sectoral project -- covering selected strategic investments and institutional development
of NPA, while addressing issues such as weak revenues collection and system losses -- is critical for
ensuring the sustainability of physical and institutional improvements achievements under the project.

In support of future power development, the project included environmental studies and institutional
support for the completion of the Bumbuna Hydropower Development Project. This project currently
offers the greatest prospect for reducing power system costs and the excessively high tariff. These
reductions would improve prospects for expansion of affordable power and improvement in NPA's
financial viability. However, at the closing of the Power Sector Rehabilitation Project, the Bumbuna
Project was only 85 percent complete and the project delays impeded the completion of institutional support
components under the Power Sector Rehabilitation Project. An investment of about US$39 million and
institutional arrangements for the ownership and operation of the Bumbuna facilities are necessary before
the commissioning can take place.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The Government, in principle, in its Strategy Paper for divestiture of Public Enterprises (PEs) has agreed
to private sector participation in the power sector. In the meantime, it has recruited a new NPA
management team to oversee the Authority during its transition to private sector participation. In addition,
NPA's Board has agreed to retain the previous management contractors during this critical phase. These
contractors performed extremely well under very difficult conditions. However, as noted above, a
follow-up operation will be necessary to consolidate progress made on both infrastructure and commercial
viability of NPA, paving the way for private sector participation in the management and the long-term
development of the sector. The main vehicle for the transition to regular operation is a multi-sectoral
infrastructure development project covering the transport, water, and energy sectors. The energy portion of
the project would focus on: (a) continued building of local management capacity of NPA as an alternative
to privatization, which is unrealistic in the present power market and investment climate in Sierra Leone;
(b) some strategic investments in transmission and distribution capacity; and (c) possibly some institutional
development in support of completing the construction and operating Bumbuna hydropower facilities. The
follow-up Bank project is currently in early stages of conceptual development.




                                                      - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The project had a substantial amount of preparation, which spanned a long period of time. IDA identified
the project initially in the early 1980's and appraised it in 1985. However, due to deteriorating country
conditions, IDA did not proceed with financing the project at that time. In 1989, IDA reviewed the
project's institutional and financial aspects and re-appraised it in 1991.

The skill mix of the Bank's appraisal team was appropriate. The team consisted of a power engineer, an
economist, financial analyst and institutional specialists. IDA followed a phased approach to approving
the lending operation. This approach was consistent with lessons learned from past projects about the
importance of securing key Government actions before Board approval. As a result, each phase of project
preparation and processing required the Government to take measures that IDA considered essential,
mainly concerning key factors affecting NPA's structure and operations.

While IDA's phased approach to project preparation secured important actions before Board approval,
these actions did not sufficiently mitigate all implementation risks. There were signs of political conflict at
appraisal, which, with hindsight, was the key factor obstructing project implementation. However, the
SAR does not mention them. Furthermore, the SAR put too much weight on the management contractor to
mitigate risks, given that foreign management contracts and technical assistance to NPA had not worked
well in the past. While the project had conditions to ensure a performance-based management contract, the
project did not require the management contractor to be in place before Board approval. As it turned out,
NPA required several contractors before finding a satisfactory working relationship. Given the lack of a
comprehensive risk analysis, particularly concerning the major factor that ultimately affected project
implementation, the ICR has rated Bank performance in lending as unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

The main characteristic of IDA's supervision performance was its flexible response to the needs of the
Borrower and Implementing Agency due to difficult country conditions. Initially IDA supervised the
project intensively prior to the hiring of a management contractor. It also responded well, all throughout
project implementation, to NPA's lack of management experience in dealing with donors and with the
Bank's procurement process. During the conflict years, in-country supervision was too risky and instead
IDA met with project representatives outside the country. At the end of the conflict, IDA showed
considerable flexibility in responding to the Government's request for emergency assistance to address the
devastating effects of hostilities over a number of years. IDA designed a countrywide Interim Support
Strategy, which linked varying levels of IDA involvement to an evaluation of political risks. The ISS
included a restructuring of the IDA's portfolio of projects to channel resources to address emergency needs.
Overall IDA's performance in implementing this action plan was fully satisfactory.

However, there were four aspects of supervision performance that were not satisfactory. The first was the
lack of sufficient emphasis in improving NPA's viability by reducing the cost of power, rather than
focusing on tariff increases, given prohibitively high tariffs in a poor country. Such an approach would
have included greater support for accelerating the development of alternatives to oil-based power
generation. Instead IDA shunned direct participation in financing construction of the Bumbuna
hydropower project, estimating that the conditions for efficient use of additional power production capacity


                                                     - 13 -

did not exist. The second aspect was the incomplete restructuring of the project in response to emergency
needs. IDA restructured the project by reallocation of funds within the project as well as other projects to
meet emergency needs of the power sector. However, the restructuring did not formally change the
project's objectives and as a result, it was difficult to determine which objectives the ICR should use in its
evaluation. Third, financing project's restructuring through reallocation of funds between categories and
under other Bank operations in Sierra Leone made it impossible to meet other objectives. Fourth, at project
closing, although project status reports discussed a follow-up operation, there was no firm plan for such an
operation in place, making sustainability of the project's objectives unlikely.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

On balance, IDA's performance was unsatisfactory in terms of meeting the initial project's objectives.
Despite IDA's highly satisfactory performance in working with the Government to meet emergency needs
resulting from a force majeure, there were significant deficiencies: the original design, the restructuring of
the project that failed to spell out the new objectives of the project, the expectations within the new scope of
the project, and indicators for achievement, as well as steps to ensure sustainability of the project's
achievements.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government took the necessary measures required by IDA's phased approach to project appraisal.
These measures included: (a) agreement on a sector investment program; (b) implementation of NPA's
capital restructuring; (c) appointment of a new (less interfering) NPA Board; (d) substantial tariff increase
(1991); (e) substantial staff reduction (45%); (f) agreement to hire a private firm to manage NPA; and (g)
preparation and adoption of a sector policy letter. On this basis, the ICR has rated the Borrower's
performance as satisfactory for project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government performance has provided consistent support to the power sector despite financial
constraints. However, its interference in NPA's operations and late payment of Government electricity bills
(although lately there has been some improvement) have constrained NPA's operations and are inconsistent
with moving NPA towards greater commercial viability. Further, Government has failed to consolidate
energy activities in a single department as required under the project. It has also failed to come to grip with
the institutional arrangements to manage the power sector. The changes in NPA management are too
frequent for any team to make significant improvements. The provincial power stations remain
autonomous in their management but are still featured in NPA's balance sheet, and Government remains
deaf to other donors criticism on the performance of the Bumbuna Project's Implementation Unit, a unit
upon which NPA has also no real grip. Therefore, overall the ICR has rated Government implementation
performance as unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Overall, NPA's performance has been less than satisfactory, although since 2000, with the arrival of a new
management team, deterioration has been stopped and improvements made. The latest project status report
has rated project management as highly satisfactory. In addition, the Authority's staff have shown extreme
dedication in keeping the utility alive throughout the civil conflict. Although financial performance remains
fragile the new management team has made significant improvements under very difficult circumstances.



                                                        - 14 -

Furthermore, the NPA prepared a substantial, well-organized evaluation report on the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The ICR has rated overall Borrower performance as unsatisfactory. The highly satisfactory performance
of NPA under the most recent management contractor, given country conditions, has helped move NPA
toward greater commercial viability, though hindered by unsatisfactory aspects of NPA's financial
constraints and Government performance.

8. Lessons Learned

   Need for an Integrated Approach to Power System Development. The approach to power system
   development in Sierra Leone has been fragmented rather than integrated. It might have been helpful for
   the SAR to focus on issues such as cost reduction, which would involve rehabilitating oil-based
   generation and also actively seeking alternatives, such as hydropower, as well as low-cost distribution
   facilities, etc. However, by focusing on rehabilitation only -- without a clear, integrated, development
   framework -- the SAR was more limited. Also, on the policy side, IDA focused on motivating the
   Government to increase tariffs in order to make the power company financially viable. However, at the
   same time, there should have been more attention to reducing costs in a poor country with one of the
   highest power tariffs in the world.

   Improving Risk Analysis in Bank Projects. Generally, in IDA projects, risk analysis has received less
   attention than economic, environmental and financial analysis. However, these analyses are usually
   interdependent. For example, in a country with a high risk of civil conflict, a project with a
   well-prepared economic or financial analysis may turn out to have no impact. Since IDA deals with
   countries that are exposed to several types of risks, it would be prudent to include a risk analysis that
   addresses the interdependence of all the various factors and develop alternative scenarios for action.

   In the case of Sierra Leone Power Rehabilitation Project the Bank faced multiple risks -- limited
   economic growth, weak utility management, unsatisfactory performance in past projects and impending
   political conflict. However, there was no mention of political risk, though the signs were there and civil
   conflict turned out to be a major factor adversely affecting project implementation. Furthermore, the
   main mitigating factor in the analysis was the hiring of a consulting firm using a performance-based
   management contract. However, it was unrealistic to expect the consultant to be able to reverse all of
   these problems in a three-year contractual period, especially since it was the first such contract for the
   utility. Also, in the past, government actions had interfered with performance of technical assistance
   and improvements in commercial performance.

   During supervision, IDA prepared a risk analysis that related to future paths of action under several
   scenarios regarding the stability of the political environment. This type of approach could be useful in
   risk analyses at appraisal as well.

   Developing Transitional Institutional Development Arrangements in Post-Conflict Situations. In
   post-conflict situations with significant destruction of infrastructure, the physical aspects of power
   development may take precedence over the institutional development aspects of power system
   development; and it may not be possible to move rapidly to the full privatization of a power utility.
   Instead, depending on the amount of destruction and available resources, it may be necessary to
   concentrate on developing creative solutions to management contracting that gradually pave the way for
   future privatization.



                                                      - 15 -

Employing Local Consultants to Assist in Policy Reform. Local efficient utility management
contractors are likely to have an advantage over foreign managers. They can be more adept in
preparing and selling reform packages to the public and are likely to inspire a greater sense of trust.

Changing Objectives in Project Restructuring. Although a project's objectives may be general
enough to encompass a restructuring, major reallocations of resources may change indicators used to
evaluate the achievement of objectives. For example, devastation during the conflict led to the
restructuring of the Sierra Leone Rehabilitation Project, putting more focus on rehabilitation of physical
infrastructure and less emphasis on institutional development of NPA and future power system
development. The lack of attention to modifying the objective can cause difficulties in the evaluation of
project performance at completion. The decision to modify the objectives of a project needs to be
signalled in a memorandum to "files", which is then cited in each subsequent PSR.




                                                 - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Contribution

The Borrower has provided a very detailed report (55 pages) reviewing the project's implementation. The
full report is too long to attach to the ICR. However, the Borrower has prepared a 10-page summary,
attached as Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Among the main cofinanciers, EU has field representation in Sierra Leone. EU staff has expressed its
satisfaction with the progress being made, particularly with the performance of the last management team
of NPA in transmission and distribution.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

No additional information.




                                                   - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Gross generation (GWh)                       106.3                              112.4
(Station Use (%))                            5.7                                5.7
Fuel effeciency improvement (kWh/IG)         15.5                               15.8
Kingtom Specific Lub Oil Consumption         1231                               1114
(kWh/IG)
Energy Available For Sale (gWh)              100.6                              106.0
Billing (as % of energy available for sale)  74%                                87%
Non-Govt. Account Receivables equivalent to 316                                 163
days of Sales
No. of Customers per Employee                55.3                               60.7
Operating Ratio (times)                      228                                122
Current Ratio                                0.24:1                             0.25:1


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Hiring of Management Contractor              By January 1993                    March 1994
Hiring of Engineering and Project            By January 1992                    March 1994
Monitoring and Control Consultants           By January 1994                    August 1993
Beginning Studies Included in Credit         By January 1994                    October 1994
Hiring Board of Consultants For Bumbuna      By January 1993                    Not Done
Hydro Project
Setting-up New Accounting System             By July 1993                       July 1996
Setting-up New Payroll System                By July 1993                       June 1996
Setting-up New Inventory Control System      By July 1993                       2002
Award Contract For New 5 MW Unit             By October 1992                    July 1996
Award Equipment Included as General Plant By February 1994                      May 1995
Submission Of Training Program               By July 1993                       March 1995

1End of project




                                                             - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate          Estimate            Appraisal
                        Component                               US$ million       US$ million
Generation Unit                                                    27.70                21.16                 76
Sub-transmission & Distribution Rehabilitation                      8.40                33.75                382
General Plant                                                       1.60                 3.22                201
Engineering, Consultancy and Supervision Services                   4.40                 3.33                 76
Studies                                                             1.00                 1.66                166
Contract Management                                                 4.50                 5.84                129
Training                                                            0.50                 0.15                 30
Refund of PPF                                                       0.80                 0.71                 89
Lubricating Oil                                                     0.80                 0.55                 69
Miscellaneous (import duties etc.)                                 10.20                28.59                280

Total Baseline Cost                                                59.90                98.96
  Physical Contingencies                                            6.20
  Price Contingencies                                               3.90
                           Total Project Costs                     70.00                98.96
                              Interest during construction          4.60
                   Total Financing Required                        74.60                98.96
Note: Total may not add up due to rounding.
* IDA provided additional financing: US$3.22 million from Cr. 2827-SL (Health project), US$1.7 million from
Cr. 2702-SL (Urban Water Supply), and US$2.0 million from Cr. 3586-SL (ERRCII).

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                    Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB                  2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                               0.00             0.00           0.00               0.00             0.00
                                      (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               9.91             0.00           0.30              35.64            45.85
                                      (9.89)           (0.00)          (0.30)            (0.00)           (10.19)
3. Services                            5.39             0.00           2.24               2.95            10.58
Engineering Consultancy               (5.39)           (0.00)          (2.24)            (0.00)           (7.63)
Services, Supervision &
Management Contract
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00             0.00           1.17               0.00             1.17
Studies                               (0.00)           (0.00)          (1.17)            (0.00)           (1.17)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00             0.00           0.55               0.00             0.55
Training                              (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.46)            (0.00)           (0.46)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.80             0.00           0.00              15.58            16.38
                                      (0.80)           (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.75)           (1.55)
    Total                             16.10             0.00           4.26              54.17            74.53
                                     (16.08)           (0.00)          (4.17)            (0.75)           (21.00)



                                                    - 19 -

  Note: Total may not add up due to rounding.

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                10.56              0.34              1.78             38.74            51.42
                                          (8.23)             (0.30)            (1.18)            (0.00)           (9.71)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              3.56             5.31              8.87
   Engineering Consultancy                (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.71)            (5.31)           (8.02)
   Services, Supervision &
   Management Contract
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              1.46             0.00              1.46
   Studies                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.46)            (0.00)           (1.46)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.15             0.00              0.15
   Training                               (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.15)            (0.00)           (0.15)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             37.06            37.06
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (9.56)           (9.56)
       Total                               10.56              0.34              6.95             81.11            98.96
                                          (8.23)             (0.30)            (5.50)           (14.87)           (28.89)
  Note: Total may not add up due to rounding.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Generating Unit                8.31         0.00         7.70       10.96         0.00      10.30       131.9     0.0     133.8
Sub-transmission &             0.00         0.00        25.53        2.00         0.00      31.75        0.0      0.0     124.4
Distribution
General Plant                  1.89         0.00         0.01        3.22         0.00       0.00       170.4     0.0       0.0
Engineering &                  2.23         0.00         2.95        3.33         0.00       0.00       149.3     0.0       0.0
Consultancy Services*
Studies                        1.18         0.00         0.00        1.46         0.00       0.20       123.7     0.0       0.0
Management Contract            5.39         0.00         0.00        5.54         0.00       0.30       102.8     0.0       0.0
Training                       0.46         0.00         0.01        0.15         0.00       0.00       32.6      0.0       0.0
Lubricating Oil                0.80         0.00         0.00        0.55         0.00       0.00       68.8      0.0       0.0
Miscellaneous (PPF             0.75        17.30         0.00        1.96         28.21      0.00       261.3    163.1      0.0
Refund, Import Duties, etc.
Total                         21.01        17.30        36.20       28.89         27.51     42.55       137.5    159.0    117.5


  * includes Bumbuna Supervision;
  Note: Total may not add up due to rounding.


                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


                            SIERRA Leone Power Sector Rehabilitation Project

                                              Economic Analysis


The approach used in estimating the cost-benefit in the ICR is similar to the one used during appraisal.
However, several assumptions made in the SAR did not materialize due to the socioeconomic and political
crises which affected the implementation of the project, resulting in delays in planned rehabilitation, cost
overruns, loss of project property, increase in technical and overall losses and delays in completion of the
Bumbuna hydropower project. (See text: section 4 of ICR).

Costs

The cost stream of the cost-benefit analysis comprises the costs of the capital investment; operation and
maintenance; management contract; and fuel for power generation. The capital investment component is
spread over the 1994-2002 period, financed by IDA credits, NPA and EU, the EIB, and JICA. The
incremental fuel consumed is the difference between the consumption "with" and "without project" cases.
The economic cost of fuel (fuel oil, diesel and lubricant) is the import value or the c.i.f. price. For the
period 1993-2002, it is estimated at 85% of actual operational expenditure made by NPA, representing the
cost of fuel import and delivery to the power station which is taken as landed cost minus all duties and
taxes. The cost during 2002-2012 is projected based on assumptions made below regarding fuel cost and
net power generation.

Benefits

The main benefits of the project included in the benefit stream of the analysis is the unserved demand for
electricity. No significant reductions in the system technical losses were registered as technical losses now
stand at about 20% compared to planned target of 10 % estimated at appraisal; and cost savings from the
reduction in auto-generation did not materialized as the anticipated increased in power generation was not
achieved. The project's benefits until 2000 were mainly from rehabilitation of Sulzer 4 (7MW) and KHDs
(2.5 MW); and new and rehabilitated power generating capacities brought into operation between
2000-2002: Mirlees (6.3 MW), Mitsbushi (5MW), Caterpillar (3x1.28 MW) and Sulzer 5 (7MW).
Transmission and distribution systems (mainly purchased between 1994-1997) were installed between 2000
and 2002. It is assumed that potential incremental economic benefits of the investments in transmission
and distribution would not be negligible until significant improvement in management of NPA is achieved.
The Bumbuna hydropower project which was to be commissioned in 1998 was delayed and its date of
commissioning is uncertain.

Economic Rate of Return

The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR), calculated based on the investment completed under the
project, is estimated to be 8% compared to the appraisal estimate of 28.2%. In retrospect, most of the
assumptions on which the IERR estimates were based did not materialize, as noted above. A post
completion IERR estimate is mainly affected by fuel cost. Sensitivity analysis of the base IERR to various
parameters is as follows: based on consumers' willingness to pay, a 20% decrease in the fuel prices would
increase the base IERR to 18%, while an increase by the same amount will reduce the IERR to 2%. The



                                                     - 21 -

delays in the implementation of the hydroelectric power project and the cost overruns accounted for the gap
between two IERR estimates.

                                     Power Sector Rehabilitation Project
                                              Economic Analysis




Fiscal Year                           1993     1994     1995      1996      1997 1998     1999     2000  2001   2002 2003 to
                                                                                                                     2006
Costs (US$ '000)
Capital Investment/IDA/a                56      234     1042      1243      1365      0       9    3153  3153   3153      0
Capital Investment/Cofinanciers/b        0     2963     2963      2963      2963  2963    2963     2963  2963   2963


Fixed O & M Cost/c                     557      583      501       726      1623   750     290      487   101    926    926
Management Contract/d                    0      916     1060      1908       492     94    335      148     95   119      0


Incremental Fuel Costs/e                 0     1962     2928      2543      4208  2661    2527     2966  6627   6627   6627


Total incremental cost                 613     5742     7433      7474     10159 6374     5789     9569 12844 13669    7553


Benefits:
Generation available for sale (GWh)
  With the Project/ f                   35       51       68       104        66     79      51      58   101    106    106
  Without the Project/g                 35       19         0        0         0      0       0       0      0     0      0




Demand Served (GWh)
  With the Project/h                    28       41       54        83        53     63      41      46     80    85     85
  Without the Project/i                 28       15         0        0         0      0       0       0      0     0      0
  Increments                             0       26       54        83        53     63      41      46     80    85     85


Value of incremental Demand Served
(US$'000)/j                              0     4716     6965      5165      9631  2848    5548     2736  7937 12204   12204


Net Benefit with cofinanciers/k       -613    -1027     -468    -2309       -528 -3526    -241    -6833 -4907 -1465    4652
IERR=8%; NPV= (US$2.2 million)
Fuel cost (less 20%)                     0      392      586       509       842  1064     505      593  1325   1325   1325
Net Benefit with 20% less fuel cost   -613     -634      117    -1801        314 -2462     264    -6239 -3581   -139   5977
EIRR=18%; NPV=US$6.4 million



Asumptions:

a/ Figures compiled from IDA disbursements.
b/ Figures compiled from Co-financiers; prorated over the life of the project excluding loss of property estimated at
30% of actual.
c/ Compiled from operation expenses of NPA financial statements (less taxes and duties estimated at 75% of cost).
d/ Compiled from IDA disbursements & contract statements.
e/ Compiled from operating expenses less taxes and duties (estimated 85% of operators' cost).




                                                      - 22 -

f/ Compiled from Supervision Reports & Sector Study Draft Final Report.
g/ Estimates.
h/ Various supervision reports.
i/ Estimates.
j/ actual for 1993 to 2001; trend assumed to continue.
k/ Net benefit including items financed by co-financiers.




                                                       - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/02/1987                4     PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ELECTROMECHANICAL ENG
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/27/1989                4    PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ELECTROMECHANICAL
                                             ENG (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)


 Supervision

              03/18/1993                3    POWER ENGINEER (1);              S               2
                                             ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              06/14/1993                1    ENERGY ECONOMIST (1)             1               2
              03/05/1994                3    POWER ENGINEER (1);              1               2
                                             ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              11/07/1994                1    ENERGY ECONOMIST (1)             S               U
              12/11/1995                4    PROJECT OFFICER (1);             S               U
                                             ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ELECTROMECHANICAL ENG
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              07/04/1996                3    PROJECT OFFICER (1);             S               U
                                             ELECTROMECHANICAL ENG
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              12/14/1996                3    OPERATION OFFICER (1);           S               U
                                             POWER ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              03/17/1997                3     OPERATION OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             POWER ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              03/17/1997                3    PRINC. OPER. OFFICER (1);        U               U
                                             POWER ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              05/08/1998                1    POWER ENGINEER (1)               U               U
              12/09/1998                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            HU              U
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             Y2K SPECIALIST (1)
              03/16/1999                2    TASK TEAM LEADER/                HU              U
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);



                                              - 24 -

                                           POWER ENGINEER (1)
               12/21/1999              2   TASK TEAM LEADER/                 HU    U
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                           POWER ENGINEER (1)
               04/14/2000              3   TASK TEAM LEADER/                  U    U
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                           POWER ENGINEER (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               11/03/2000              2   TASK TEAM LEADER/                  U    S
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                           POWER ENGINEER (1)
               12/20.2001              2   INSTITUTIONAL                      S    S
                                           DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (1)
               12/28/2001              2   TASK TEAM LEADER/                  S    S
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST(1)
               06/14/2002              2   TASK TEAM LEADER/                  S    S
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                           POWER ENGINEER (1)
               10/18/2002              2   TASK TEAM LEADER/                  S    S
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                           POWER ENGINEER (1)
                                                                              S    S

 ICR

               02/03/2001             1     SR FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)          S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           43.10                         100.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                182.7                        730.94
  Supervision                        220.91                          341.0
  ICR                                   3.23                           20.8
  Total                              449.94                        1,193.4




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Other Social Objectives
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
Public Sector Development




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank, Sierra Leone, Staff Appraisal Report, Power Sector Rehabilitation Project, March 31,
1992

World Bank, Power Sector Rehabilitation Project Credit (2356 SL) and Project Agreements, November
25, 1992

World Bank, Urban Water Supply Project Credit (2702 SL) and NPA Project Agreements, October 26,
2000

World Bank, Health Sector Project Credit (2827 SL) and NPA Project Agreements, October 26, 2000

Electricity Africa, Restructuring and Private Sector Participation in the Sierra Leone Electricity Sector,
Draft Final Report, Volume 1, October 2002;

Electricity Africa, Restructuring and Private Sector Participation in the Sierra Leone Electricity Sector,
Draft Final Report, Volume 2, October 2002;

Electricity Africa, Restructuring and Private Sector Participation in the Sierra Leone Electricity Sector,
Draft Final Report, Volume 3, October 2002;

CEMMATS Group LTD, National Power Authority (NPA) Close-out and Handing Over Report, May
2002




                                                  - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments

                                       EVALUATION SUMMARY

                                             INTRODUCTION

1.          This is the Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Power Sector Rehabilitation Project in the Republic of Sierra Leone, for which Credit 2356-SL in the
amount of SDR 15.3 million was approved on April 21, 1992, and made effective on May 24, 1993.

2.        The Credit was closed on June 30, 2002 compared with the original closing date of March 31,
1997 The coup de tat in May 1997 adversely affected the project with the project being effectively
suspended. Project implementation was again frozen because of the rebel invasion of Freetown in January
1999. It was reactivated after the Amsterdam meeting in May 1999 when the Amsterdam Emergency
Action Plan was initiated. A first closing date extension was made to March 31, 1998 to make up for time
lost on account of delays in the effectiveness of co financier's loans. As the Project was restructured, three
further extensions were made with a final extension to June 30, 2002 granted to allow for the completion of
critical items of the Emergency Action Plan. The Credit has been fully disbursed. IDA provided additional
funding to the Project from reallocations which were made during a portfolio restructuring exercise in May
2000 totaling USD 5.2 million of which US$ 3.5 million came from Credit 2827-SL (Heath Sector Project)
and USD 1.7 million from Credit 2702-SL (Urban Water Supply Project). Further allocations to the
power sector were made with US$ 2.0 million from the second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery
Credit, and US$      million grant by the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) to support
the power sector reform agenda. Project co-financing was provided by the Economic Development Fund
of the Commission of the European Community (EDF), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the
Japanese Government (JICA) and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).

3.        Donor support to the power sector has been ongoing since 1964. Prior to the present project, the
Bank Group had lent US$ 22.0 million to Sierra Leone for development of its power sector. The first two
loans, US$ 3.8 million in 1964 (338-SL) and US$ 3.9 million in 1968 (553-SL), helped SLEC finance the
installation of diesel units at the Kingtom Power Station in Freetown, diesel sets in Provincial centres, and
expansion of associated distribution facilities. A US$ 8.2 million IDA credit (734-SL) was made in 1977
to help finance an extension of electricity generation and distribution facilities in Freetown and in several
provincial centres, technical assistance, and a feasibility study for the Bumbuna hydroelectric development.
To complete preparation of the Bumbuna Project and assist in the rehabilitation of NPA, the US$6.1
million Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit (Cr.1265-SL) was made in 1982. This credit which
was made before the suspension of disbursements to Sierra Leone in 1987 was to finance the completion of
engineering preparation of the Bumbuna hydro project including an economic evaluation and for
mechanical improvements in the Kingtom engines including a new cooling system, support of institutional
improvements in the power sector; and overseas training of NPA senior staff, and technical assistance.
Equivalent of about one million SDR remained under Cr. 1265-SL which was reallocated for purchase of
spare part for the Kingtom power plant before suspension of disbursements.

                                               OBJECTIVES:

4.        The immediate objectives of IDA in the Power sector of Sierra Leone were to restore adequate
supplies of power in the Western Area, and improve managerial capabilities and institutional arrangements
of NPA. The longer-term objective was to assist Sierra Leone provide electricity to more of its people in a



                                                     - 29 -

more efficient and cost effective way. To achieve these objectives, IDA's strategy was to assist NPA and
the Government to;

              (a)   Restore service availability and reliability to adequate levels thereby gaining consumer's
                    satisfaction and strengthening of NPA:

              (b)   Carry out institutional and organizional reforms to achieve operational efficiency and
                    help restore financial viability of NPA;

              (c)   Develop managerial capabilities through on the job and overseas training to manage and
                   operate the power sector; and

              (d) Develop a strategy for optimal development of the power sector utilizing indigenous
                   energy resources, in particular the country's hydroelectric potential.



                                            ACHIEVEMENTS

5.        General Comments

It is difficult to measure the achievements of the project given that the project lasted nine and three quarter
years instead of four and a half. The benefits of some of the project interventions had lost their
effectiveness primarily because the major objective of strengthening NPA as an institution had not been
achieved. IDA is to be congratulated for taking effective steps to change project priorities such that
previous investment was not lost as the situation became one of dire emergency. The project had three
development objectives (DO)

1)        Assist GOSL in developing a comprehensive sector development policy
2)        Assist NPA to carry out long delayed maintenance and rehabilitation of its Western Area
generation, subtransmission, and distribution facilities, as well as replacement of some generating units, so
as to restore an adequate and reliable supply of electricity
3)        Strengthen NPA as an institution in order to lay foundations for an autonomous and commercially
viable entity, capable of providing a reasonably priced and reliable service to its customers




                                                       - 30 -

6.       Sector development policy

The studies funded under the Credit (plan to consolidate energy sector activities within a single ministry
and the preparation of a Master Plan for the development of the sector ) were completed to final report and
final draft report stage respectively. Bank supervision missions in November 1996 and December 1998
both reported on the fact that the Master Plan Study was incomplete and in any case was outdated. An
action plan was also agreed for sector reforms during the December 1998. Only two elements of the plan
were implemented namely the Technical Financial and Managerial Audit of NPA and part of the bidding
process for interim power supply in Freetown. The situation has been rescued during the Emergency Action
Plan period of the project. The process is now on track as the contract for the first stage of the studies
required to prepare a detailed private-sector participation strategy, including options for participation in the
sector and ultimately to devise and implement a privatization strategy has been started.

7.       Restoration of Adequate and Reliable supply of electricity

The project spans the period November 1992 to June 2002. The amount spent on rehabilitation of both the
generation and distribution elements between start of the project and May 1997 when the project was
suspended was US$ 35.24 million made up as follows:

EIB      US$ 12.5 million spent on rehabilitation of Sulzer units numbers 4 and 5 and the fuel treatment
         and water systems
EU       US$ 12.44 million spent on the rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution systems
JICA     US$ 10.3 million spent on the purchase an installation of a new 5MW unit
There was no corresponding increase in power generated with the minimum generated being 45 Gwh in
Fiscal 1993 and the maximum being 112 Gwh in Fiscal 1997. The average for the period was 76.5 Gwh.
The graph of annual generation is shown in Graph         .The project had assumed power generation of 81.5
Gwh in Fiscal 1993 rising to 175.2 Gwh in Fiscal 1996.

A combination of security instability between May 1997 and March 1998 and January 1999 coupled with
poor operating practises resulted in power generated falling to 51.9 Gwh in Fiscal 2000 with only 4 MW
available at the start of the Emergency Rehabilitation Plan in January 2000. Since then generation has
improved substantially. With capacity increasing to an available capacity of 27MW with the following
units:

                2x9.2 MW Sulzer units
                3x1.2 MW Caterpillar units
                1x5 MW Mitsubishi unit

The situation will improve even further when the repair of the Mirrlees 6.3 MW unit is completed and the
unit is put in operation.

8.       Institutional Strengthening


The project provided for the following elements:

         (i)     Revision of the NPA Act.
         (ii)    Contracting a qualified utility and/or a utility consulting firm to manage NPA



                                                     - 31 -

         (iii)    Training of the NPA staff overseas with a utility with relevant operating experience

Achievements were limited. Although the NPA act was revised the desired autonomy of NPA from GOSL
and the clarity in the definitions of the functions and responsibility of NPA's Board and Management were
not achieved. NPA's Board and Ministry of Power and Energy tendency to exert direct control of NPA still
remains strong as evidenced by the replacement of the first contract management team at a critical juncture
in project implementation.

Contracted management has performed well, first during the 1994-1997 period although achievements were
completely eroded by the security upheaval in 1997, and in 2000-2002 during the implementation of the
Emergency Action Plan. Bank assistance was invaluable to the interim- management of the power sector by
a competent indigenous private sector firm that has laid the groundwork for the formulation of an energy
development policy by:

(i)      Commissioning an organizational audit of NPA that will address job descriptions and remuneration
issues;
(ii)     Providing a base study on policy options for the development of the sector,
(iii)    Holding a consultative conference and several other meetings to bring about consensus on policy
orientation. This process has brought about GoSL acceptance of private sector participation as basis for
future development of the energy sector;
(iv)     Commissioning a study to prepare a detailed private sector participation strategy for the energy
sector, including options to that effect. The study is expected to help in facilitating consensus building on
the recommended preferred option before the hiring of an investment advisor who would assist in
implementing the privatization strategy. The study is being financed through PPIAF.

More work needs to be done in the area of on the job and overseas training to develop managerial
capabilities.   The development of a strategy for optimal development of the power sector utilizing
indigenous energy resources, in particular the country's hydroelectric potential has not been entirely
successful due to the failure to complete the Bumbuna Project.

     SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED

Major Factors Affecting The Project

9.          The project, which was a follow up of the preceding Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project and the Third Power Project was intended to achieve the failed objectives of these past two projects
in improving the operation and financial management of NPA. Project execution spanned almost ten years
instead of almost four years due to due to implementation delays, setbacks and civil strife. The donors of
the sector have been drawn in from one emergency to another, trying to prevent total collapse of the utility
that has been hampered in its operations by its inappropriate institutional setting, poor management, poor
maintenance, lack of foreign exchange and civil war that temporarily eroded its consumer base. By the
original closing date, completion of the rehabilitation of sub-transmission and distribution facilities,
installation of a new billing system, and sector reform were incomplete. A major project physical
component the manufacturing and installation of the IDA financed 6.3MW generator was still experiencing
failures during commissioning and had not yet contributed to generation on a sustained basis. Three
extensions of credit closing dates were therefore granted to make-up for delays in implementation, provide
for additional generation capacity, and for replacement of assets and repair of facilities destroyed during
the civil war, particularly during the January, 1999 invasion of Freetown.




                                                      - 32 -

                        Factors not generally subject to Government Control

10.         Initially, project implementation was hampered by lack of coordination. As a direct consequence
power generation improvements often did not coincide with improvements in sub-transmission and
distribution and vise-versa, creating bottlenecks that delayed the realization of benefits from the
improvements. Mishaps such as the 1995 fire and the civil war adversely affected the Project. UN
sanctions imposed on the illegal junta regime also affected the micro economy and the living standard of the
people. The exodus of a significant proportion of the Western Area population and the closing of industrial
and commercial concerns eroded NPA's consumer base. The billing system was antiquated and fraught
with problems. Collection of receivables from the impoverished population became a daunting task,
severely affecting NPA's finances. The devaluation of the Leone also dramatically increased the cost of
thermal power production, rendering NPA wholly dependent on Government subsidies for its operations.

                        Factors subject to Government control

11.      The first period in project implementation was characterized by a six months delay in project
effectiveness due in part to the sacking of NPA's Board and General Manager by Government, and their
replacement by a whole new team that was unfamiliar with the Project. Another difficulty was the issue of
the Coastal Corporation proposal to convert the ailing Freetown oil refinery into an electric power
generation facility, which the Bank opposed as un-economical. High turnover in the management of NPA
and Government intervention in the management of NPA has had a deleterious effect on the performance of
the Authority. Recently, Government has allocated considerable resources to the rehabilitation of the power
plant and the provision of additional power generating capacity. However, Government action on requests
for tariff increases have not been responsive in a timely manner. Another major factor for the
unsatisfactory financial performance of NPA has been the failure of Government entities to pay their
electricity bills, making of NPA's financial situation a perennial problem throughout project
implementation. On the positive side, Government support of the hiring in 2000 of a local consulting firm
to implement an emergency action plan to salvage the ailing utility has helped in reversing the downward
trend and helped lay the basis for future development of the power sector, in collaboration with the private
sector.

                        Factors generally subject to implementation agency control

12.      NPA has generally been lax on in its billing and collection efforts, and in applying costs reductions
measures. The ratio of consumers per staff remains exceedingly high compared to similar utility companies.
Audit reports have consistently been issued late in violation of credit covenants. NPA management has
generally been weak and lacking the capacity for forward planning, focusing instead on day- to- day
operations. The organization has for many years lost its internal cohesion and the procedures and systems
necessary for proper functioning of a power utility

                                               IDA Performance

13.      In the light of the information available, an analysis of project preparation, implementation, and
supervision prompts the conclusion that the Bank's performance was average during the phases up to the
start of the Emergency Action Plan. Bank performance during the emergency action plan was good with the
donor acting in a proactive manner to the changes in project situation brought about by the combination of
the country security problems and poor implementation performance by NPA between March 1998 and
December 1999. The following observations are relevant in this regard:




                                                      - 33 -

(i)     The donor should have taken a stronger role in the execution of the Bumbuna Project. In hindsight,
the decision of the Bank to opt out of the development the Bumbuna Project was a mistake. This project
was pivotal to the sustainability of the project as originally conceived. The agreements that a Board of
Consultants be set up consisting of internationally recognised experts in different fields of hydro project
design and construction and meeting two or three times a year in Sierra Leone was never implemented. The
agreement also that the supervision of the civil works be undertaken by an expert in hydro design and
construction who would be NPA's representative at the site was also never implemented. The result of
these two factors was that the agreement reached during project negotiation that the supervision of the
project be placed under a strengthened NPA with IDA financing a resident expert and a Board of
Consultants was never complied with.
(ii)    Funds spent up to the suspension of disbursements after the coup de tat in May 1997 were in
excess of the benefits. For example the cost of overhauling and emergency repairs for Sulzers 4 and 5
funded in the EIB loan was US$ 10.8 million. Sulzer 4 was finished on 4 June 1995 and Sulzer 5 on 2
February 1995. Sulzer 4 went down in 1997 after minimal production whilst Sulzer 5 was down to 4 MW
by December 1999. Sulzer 4 was rehabilitated as part of the Emergency Action Plan whilst Sulzer had
some repairs done to keep it running. The total cost of this work was US$ 2.4 million. Both units have
performed extremely well, a clear difference in cost benefit terms from the previous repair. The cost of the
first management contractor at US$ 4,769,280 or US$ 132,480 per month compares very unfavourably in
terms of cost benefit with the cost of US$ 654,000 or US$ 21,800 per month for the entire second
management team and the implementation specialist.
(iii)   The donor should have examined more critically the suitability of the counterpart staff to assume
senior management positions. As far back as the mid term review mission in June 1996 the Bank had
expressed its concern at the number of the counterpart staff and the suitability of some of them. During
the May 1998 Supervision Mission, NPA's Management decided to scale down technical assistance to two
experts, one responsible for engineering activities and the other for commercial and financial matters, with
defined specific tasks and monitorable performance indicators/outputs for each of the proposed experts.
This decision was accepted in principle by the mission subject to NPA sending a proposal to the bank for
review by the end of June 1998. Again there is no evidence to support that this was done.

By the November 1998 Supervision Mission there were obvious signs of a deterioration in NPA
performance. Net generation and sales were down on previous performance, losses had increased, available
capacity at Kingtom was only 8 MW with Sulzer 4 down for overhaul and the Mitsubishi down because of
lack of spare parts. On the billing and collection side, NPA was three months behind its billing schedule.
Poor debt collection had increased the receivables and had worsened the utility's liquidity position even
with the tariff increase granted in November 1998. The liquidity position was further exacerbated by the
exponential increase in the fuel costs due to an average depreciation of 60% to 70% of the local currency
against the US dollar. The deterioration continued resulting in the emergency situation when the technical,
financial and managerial operations of the Authority had collapsed.
(iv)    The project was adversely affected by the speed with which the procurement process was operated.
GOSL ministries caused some delays whilst others were caused by the Bank process, which in some cases
was not suitable for an emergency situation procurement
(iv)    The performance of the Banks' supervision during the emergency action phase was good. The use
of an Implementation Specialist was of great help to NPA and contributed significantly to the success of
that phase of the project.

Project Sustainability

14.     The sustainability of the project is uncertain, as the only external funding available at the moment
        is a 2 million Euro project for emergency repairs to the transmission and distribution systems.


                                                      - 34 -

         Generating capacity is below demand and extra generation is urgently needed. Consideration
         should be given to the introduction of an IPP scheme. Funding is required to resuscitate the
         provincial stations. The distribution system needs to be revamped and increased to cater for the
         increase in demand. Again donor funding is required. The sustainability of the project will depend
         on a follow up project which will address the deficiencies in generation and distribution, introduce
         the required sector reforms, carry out a job evaluation and restructuring exercise, and the creation
         of the enabling environment for private sector participation in the sector. The Government is
         desirous of embarking upon an appropriate Reform Programme that it should adopt to implement a
         private sector participation scheme in the power sector based on the review of various reports on
         the financing, ownership and operation of the power sector. The first stage of the studies required
         has started. Funding has been successfully obtained from PPIAF. The entire process leading up to
         privatisation may take up to two years. Project sustainability will be enhanced by the completion of
         the Bumbuna Project.

Lessons Learned

15.      The principal general lessons to be drawn from the Project are set out below:

         Project Preparation

(i)      Agreements should contain a small number of provisions, strenuously debated if necessary which
the borrower truly accepts. The situation with the financial covenants is a case in point. Failure to achieve
these covenants was not expressed as a project risk. The implicit impression given in the agreement being
that GOSL would honour its agreement to raise tariff as specified. Where provisions prove to be
inapplicable, they should be jointly reviewed, adapted or replaced. promptly, and which
(ii)     The provision of a Project Implementation and Control Unit was a good idea. However the fact
that the responsibility for project monitoring and control was given to the management contractor negated
the possibility of independent monitoring. There is thus a need for an independent implementing and
monitoring unit to oversee future projects of this nature.
(iii)    The risk of war and resulting delays in project implementation should have been factored into the
project as signs of civil strife were already manifest at project inception.

         Project Implementation

(iv)     GOSL must be fully committed to achieving the covenants of the agreement. Failure to implement
tariff increases in a timely or adequate manner had a negative effect on the Authorities liquidity situation.
(v)      The disbursement procedures need to be improved. The bank should reduce the time taken for
obtaining responses to non objection requests and for disbursement of funds on receipt of withdrawal
applications. Government should reduce the time taken to process withdrawal applications through the
ministry of finance
(vi)     GOSL must be fully committed to the fundamental tenets of the project. The situation regarding the
non completion of the Bunbuna Project has far reaching consequences for any reform initiatives
(vii)    GOSL should have insisted to the strict adherence of the spirit of the NPA Act in curtailing
interference in the day-to day management of the utility by the Board. There was some improvement in the
level of autonomy afforded to the NPA by the GOSL.
(viii)   In hindsight it was a mistake to give the first management contractor the task of preparing a
comprehensive training program and formulating plans for future sectoral development as the team was
quickly overwhelmed with day-to day operation of the utility.
(ix)     The failure of the Project to consider options for developing the power sector other than


                                                     - 35 -

rehabilitation and replacement of existing power units. was possibly a mistake. A comprehensive approach
to sector development was relegated to the level of a future study, which nevertheless was provided for
under the Project, as a study for the formulation of a power development master plan for the country.
(x)      The assumption that compliance with the measures stipulated for credit effectiveness would
continue during project implementation was possibly a mistake. For example no automatic tariff increase
was ever adopted.

Future Operation

 16.     A future programme is required to consolidate on the gains made in this project, and to embark on
 physical and reform projects that will prepare the sector for private sector participation. Areas of work
 will include:

(i)      Generation: Provision of additional capacity by embarking on an IPP scheme, rehabilitation of the
auxiliaries and fuel systems at Kingtom, completion of the Bumbuna Project and resuscitation of the
provincial stations.
(ii)     Transmission and Distribution: Completion of the upgrade of the system to increase capacity,
reliability and safety to match the generating capacity.
(iii)    Reform: Provision of an adequate policy framework and strategy, continued manpower
development through training at all levels, institutional development in policy formulation and investment
planning and the creation of the enabling environment for participation of the private sector in the
development of the sector.




                                                     - 36 -

- 37 -

