C-l  .2 S; SG - S44-
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
mICROFICHE COPY                                              Repott No. 8572-SL
Report NO.  8b72-SL  Type: (SAR)
BOROUMAN,  / X3498? / J-4054/ AF41E
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
MARCH 31, 1992
Industry and Energy Division
Western Africa Department
fTis document has a reskted dltbmeu ad may be used by nodpleat sxy in the pedonfmue of
their offical dudies. Its contents way not otewise be disclsd whout World Bank aulhoizeilon.



CURRENCYAEUNVLENTS
(November 1991)
Currency Unit = Leone
US$1        = Le420
Lel         = US$0.002
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
KilowattkW)               =   1,000 watts
Megawatt (MW)             =   1,000 kilowatt OW)
Kilowatt hour kWh)        =   1,000 watt hour
Gigawatt hour (GWh)       =   1 million kilowatt hour (kWh)
Kilometer (km)            =   1,000 m or 0.62 miles
Kilovolt kV)              =   1,000 volt
Kilovolt ampere (kVA)     =   1,000 volt ampere
Megavolt ampere (MVA)    =   1,000 kilovolt ampere (kVA)
One barrel (bbl)          =   0.16 cubic meters
One ton of oil equiv. (TOE)  =   About 7.5 bbl of crude oil
One imperial gallon (IG)  =   1.2 U.S. gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB            -      African Development Bank
DANIDA          -      Danish International Development Agency
EdFI            -      Electricite de France International
EC              -      Commission of the European Communities
EIB             -      European Investment Bank
GSL             -      Government of Sierra Leone
GTZ             -      German Technical Cooperation Agency
MLEP            -      Ministry of Labor, Energy and Power
MOF             -      Ministry of Finance
NP              -      National Petroleum Company Limited
NPA             -      National Power Authority
SLEC            -      Sierra Leone Electricity Company
SLPRC           -      Sierra Leone Petroleum Refining Company Limited
UNDP            -      United Nations Development Program
NPA's FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFmFCLL USE ONLY
POWnERS5ECTOR REHABNTLrTO ChQPR
Ea=e No.
CREDrT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ...........................   iv
.. ENERGYSECTOR .......................................... .1
A. Energy Resources and Consumption .1
B. Sector Isitutions and Policies ...                                                 1
C.  WoodfileX . . . .                   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...,..... 
C. Woodfuels..........                                                               2
D. Petoleum .......... 3
H. TZE LEii 1U.IOR......... 4
A. Orgaization .......... 4
B. Generation Facilies .......... 5
C. Distrbution Facilties ..........  8
D. Eectricity Consumption and Demand Forecast.                                       8
E. Sector Development.                                                                9
1. Rehabilitadon of Edsting Facilities.                                        9
2. Dumbuna Hydro Schem .10
F. Bank Group Role in the Power Subse..tor.                                          12
1. PastLending .12
2. Objectives, Strategy and Radonale for Involvement .13
m. NPA - THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY .14
A. Orgnizadon and Management    ..14
1. Revision of NPA Act .14
2. Management Contract .14
B. Provinces    ..16
C. Personnel Maagement and Trainig             ..                                   16
D. Fuel Procurement .17
E. Metering, Biing and Colection           ..18
F. Accounti, Audit and Isurance             ..19
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
.              44.,...44.:._': .                                 .. .



Pa.
IV. THE BQl3      I  .......................... 20
A. Project Objectives           ........................ 20
B. Project Description          ........................ 20
C. Project Cost ....  24
D. Project Fiancing Plan ....   25
E. Procuremnent             .......................... 26
F. Disbursements ...   29
G. Project Implementadon and SuperAion        ..30
H. Monitoring and Reporti Reqirement           ..31
I. Environmental Aspects .31
V. NPA'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS .32
A. Past inrancial Performance ..... 32
B. Electridty Tariffs.                                                          33
C. Financial Position .34
D. Capital Restrcturing .34
E. Fnancial Objectives .35
F. Tariff Action .36
G. Fiancing Plan    ..37
H. Future Finances .38
VI. PROJECT  USTIRCAT I   0N BENE          s.ANDRISKS                                 39
A. Justification .39
B. Economic Rate of Retur .40
C. Risks  ..40
VM. AGREEMENTSRE&CM AM REC0MATION                                                     41



- iii -
1-1       Terms of Reference for a Study to Consolidate Energy Sector Activities
1-2       Petroleum Products Consmption
2-1       The Emergency Rehabilitation Program
2-2       Provincial Systems Isalled Capacity
2-3       Western Area System Energy and Power Balance
2-4       Western Area System Load Dispatch and Fuel Consupon
2-5       NPA's Investment Program
2-6       Te'ms of Reference for Power Sector Master Plan Study
3-1       Amendments to the NPA Act of 1982
3-2       Terms of Reference for Preparation of Bid Documents for Management Contract
3-3       Management Contract and Training
4-1       Detailed Project Scope
4-2       Project Cost
4-3       ProjeCt Fmancing Plan
4-4       Procurement Thuetable for IDA Component
4-5       Estimated Credit Disbursement
4-6       Project Implementation Schedule
4-7       Terms of Reference for Engineering Services
4-8       Supervision Plan and Key Performance Indicators
4-9       A erms of Reference for Envronmental Study of Bumbuna Hydro Scheme
5-1       NPA - Income Statements
5-2       NPA - Balance Sheets
5-3       NPA - Funds Flow Statements
5-4       Assumptions for Funancial Statements
5-5       Electricity Tariff Schedule
5-6       Generation and Sales for FY8SO-FY96
6-1       Economic Analysis
6-2       Documents in the Project File
MAP IBRD No. 22273



- lv -
WI=    LSBHMMMEOXE
llor-rowe:                             Republic of Sierra Leone
Benef idary:                           National Power Authority (NPA)
AMmint                                 SDR 15.3 million (US$21 million equivalent)
Terns:                                 Standard IDA, with 40 year maturity
ReleBjng Tenm:                         InThe Credit would be relent to NPA for 20
years, including a 5-year grace period at the
prevailing IBRD interest rate. NPA would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
ftWPr DestiodTn:                       Ihe project is comprised of three main
components: CQ) maintenance and rehabilitation
of generation facilities, and replacement of
three decommissioned generators with two new
units; (ii) rehabilitation and improvements in
the subtransmission and distribution network;
and (iii) institonal strengthening of NPA
through revision of the NPA Act, contracting
of a private firm to manage NPA, and training
of NPA staff.
Proje  lfits and RIsks:                The proposed project will help: (a) restore an
adequate and reliable supply of electricity to
meet the unserved demand in the NPA's
Western Area system which serves Freetown,
and (b) establish the basis for NPA to become
an autonomous and commercially viable
utlity.
The risks to a successful implementation of the
project are the NPA's lack of adequate
autonomy and managerial capabilities. The
NPA's management problem is addressed by
involving the private sector in managing the
utility. Measures already taken indicate that
the Government is providing NPA with more
autonomy, but adequate Government
commitmer in the future to NPA's autonomy
remains a risk.



E3$tinated Prmiec Cost:
US S Milliol Eauivalent
Component                                      Foreign    Local      Total
New Generation                                    11.7       2.6      14.3
Generation Rehabilitation                         11.8       1.6      13.5
Subtransmission Rehabilitation                     3.9       0.2       4.1
Distribution Rehabilitation                        3.9       0.4       4.3
General Plant                                      1.6       0.0       1.6
Engineering and Consultancy Services               3.3       0.2       3.5
Bumbuna Supervision                                0.9       0.0       0.9
Studies                                            0.9       0.1       1.0
Management Contract                                4.1       0.5       4.5
Training                                           0.4       0.1       0.5
Refunding PPF                                      0.8       0.0      (l.8
Lubricating 0;1                                    0.8       0.0       0.8
Import Duties                                     _U        10.2     .1.
Base Cast                                    44.0      15.9      59.9
Physical Contingencies                             5.4       0.7       6.2
Price Contingencies                                3.4      ..
Tt i est                                     52.8      17.1      69.9
Interest During Construction                     OJ0         4.6       4.6
Total Financing Required                              I
Financing Plan                                 Foreigo     LoclI    Tota
-(US$ million equivalent)-
NPA                                             0.0       17.3     17.3
IDA                                             18.7      2.3      21.0
Cofinanciers                                              .1       3.
Total                                                 21.7
Estimated D:>isbursements                          IIA  iscal Year
-    (US$ million equivalent)-
I99     12"4      1995     199
Annual                                     3.3      6.6      7.4      3.7
Cumulative                                 3.3     9.9      17.3     21.0
EwomicBaI&oLRetiurn       28%



mEwA
LI, IIXIEMIQR
A. Enhrfa Resourcs Andond umDIn
1.01      Sierra Leone's main domestic energy resources are woodfuels. Fuelwood is by far
the largest single source of energy and Sierra Leone's forest reserves supply about 82 percent of
the country's energy needs. The remaining 18 percent is supplied by imported petroleum. Annual
supply of fuelwood is estimated at around 950,000 Tons of Oil Equivalent (TOE) including about
40,000 TOE of charcoal. High forests which once covered most of Sierra Leone have been
reduced to 5 percent of the land area through shifting cultivation, commercial logging and cutting
for fuelwood. Most of the country is now covered with secondary forests in various stages of
degradation, or derived savannah. Reforestation programs have yet to be implemented in any
significant way.
1.02      Sip-ra Leone has an extensive network of rivers and tributaries which provide a large
hydropower potential conservatively estimated at 1200 MW. Technically and economically the
most promising site is at Bumbuna, on the Seli River, with an ultimate potential of 305 MW of
installed capacity. The Government is proceeding with the development of hydro resources at
Bumbuna (para 2.13-2.18). Also, about 20 mini-hydro sites have been identified, but their
feasibility has yet to be filly evaluated, and the only development so far has been a mini-hydro
plant of 4 MW capacity on the Goma river. There are lignite deposits near Freetown but not of
sufficient quantity or adequate quality to justify construction of a thermal generating station.
1.03      In a major study of the Sierra Leone's energy sector in 1987, commonly known as
the Energy Asssmn Report,JL total gross eraergy consumption is estimated at 1.16 million
TOE of which 0.213 million TOE is commercial energy. Final energy consumption is dominated
by the households which consume 86 percent of net domestic energy supplies, while the balance is
divided up between transport (6 percent), industry (5 percent), mining (2 percent), and agriculture
(1 percent). This distribution reflects the dominant role of traditional energy, mainly fuetwood,
which is used almost exclusively by households for cooking and generally with very low
combustion efficiency. The sectoral distribution of commercial energy presents a totally different
picture. Transport is the major consumer of petroleum products, accounting for 49 percent,
followed by households (24 percent), industry (15 percent), agriculture (6 percent), and mining
(6 percent).
B. Sector Institutions and Polides
1.04      Responsibility for energy matters is dispersed among several ministries with little or
no coordination among them. Before the major Cabinet change that took place in September of
1991, the Ministry of Energy and Power (MEP) was responsible for coordinating all energy
related activities. It also established and implemented policy in the power subsector, including the
supervision of the National Power Authority (NPA). ITe Ministry of Industry and State
I/ "Sierra Leone: Issues snd Oppdons in the Energy Sector," Report of the Joint
UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program, October 1987.



- 2 -
Enterprises was responsible for petroleum refining, while the Ministry of Trade looked after
petroleum products distribution and marketing. Exploration activities for petroleum, as well as
for lignite, fell within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Mines (there is no petroleum exploration
activity going on in the country). The Ministry of Finance had institutional responsibility for
allocatng foreign exchange for oil imports, and set petroleum product prices in collaboration with
other Ministries. The mandate for the management and development of forestry and other
woodfuel resources rested with the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Forestry.
There is no ministry with the legal mandate to develop, research, and promote the use of
alternative energy resources such as solar energy or agricultural wastes.
1.05       As a result of the institutional arrangements in recent years, there is no national
energy planning and the country lacks a clearly defined energy policy or strategy. In September
of 1991, Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises and Ministry of Trade became one ministry.
Also, portfolios of Labor, and Energy and Power were merged into a single Ministry of Labor,
Energy and Power (MLEP) with no clear rationale for such a combination. Although the old
MEP was in theory responsible for coordinating all energy activities, its main preoccupation had
been with supply and distribution of power which is also true under the new MLEP. The role of
the MLEP and other institutions dealing with energy matters should be examined, and a plan
should be prepared under which policy making, planning and coordination of all activities in the
energy sector would be consoljiated within a single ministry. Agreement has been reached with
the Government that a study for such a plan would be financed under the proposed project. A
draft terms of reference for a study to consolidate energy sector activities has been received from
the Government. During negotiations areement was reached that the Government wIll: (a) carry
out the study according to the terms of reference attached as Annex 1-1; (b) furnish to IDA for its
review and comments the results of the study; and (c) carry out the recommendations of the study
in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to IDA. It is expected that the study will be completed
by the end of 1994.
C. Wff%aae
1.06       About 87 percent of Sierra Leone's total area of 7.2 million hectares is classified as
natural forest land, but only 5 percent of it (365,000 hectares) is considered as closed high forest.
The high forest is located largely in the remote eastern part of the country but with some reserves
in the Western Area Peninsula near Freetown. The rest of the country is now covered by
secondary forests in various stages of degradation, forest regrowth bush fallow agriculture, and
savannah woodland. Aggregate wood production is well in excess of estimated fuelwood
consumption for the country as a whole. As compared with an annual increment in the natural
forest cover of 9-15 million cubic meters, total fuelwood consumption is around 4 million cubic
meters (or 1.1 cubic meter/capita/year), indicating an apparent surplus. However, significant
wood resources are concentrated far from the large consumption centers in sparsely populated
areas which lack appropriate access and infrastructure to exploit the resources economically. In
the case of supplies from bush fallow, economic access is often limited to 2-5 mile distances from
transport routes and availability is low with existing prices and transport infrastructure.
1.07       Therefore, in spite of an apparent surplus of physical wood supplies at the national
level, there are indications of severe and growing regional shortages combined with a
deterioration in size and quality of forest resources. Approximately 60 percent-70 percent of
woodfuels supplied to Freetown now come from outside of the Western Area. Fuelwood prices
in the Freetown area have increased substantially in the past decade and woodfuel merchants can



be observed travelling more than 100 miles to Moyamba Junction and even beyond Kenema for
supplies. Fuetwood shortages, in the form of active markets and rising prices, have also emerged
in the tobacco growing areas (e.g. Makeni, Bo, Kenema, and Koldu) where it is used for tobacco
curing. There has been a number of studies on the woodfuels situation in the past, and currently
a Tropical Forestry Action Plan by the United Nation's Food and Agriculture Organization is
under execution which will focus on these and other related issues.
D. lPetroleum
1.08      The country's oil refinery at Kissy, commissioned in 1969, has a design capacity of
10,000 barrels/day of light crude. It is a simple crude distillation unit with LPG recovery
facilities and 'as been running in recent years on mostly light crude from Nigeria. Products
obtained from processing imported crude at the refinery do not match the requirements of the
country and, with the exception of fuel oil which is in surplus, petroleum products would have to
be imported to supplement the refinery's output. The refinery is owned and operated by the
Sierra Leone Petroleum Refining Company Limited (SLPRC). The shareholders of SLPRC are:
the Government (50 percent), Shell Oil (28.5 percent), Mobil Oil (11.3 percent), and Precious
Metal Marketing Corporation-PMMC (10.2 percent). 'The Government also owns 35 percent of
PMMC. The refinery is now rather old and the aging process could be the reason for a
significant increase in the operating cost structure in recent years. The refinery is operated on a
cost plus basis which provides little incentive for improving efficiency. The high cost of
operation and lack of sufficient foreign exchange have caused the refinery to operate at about 35
percent of its capacity in the past two years. Petroleum products distribution and marketing are
handled by Sierra Leone National Petroleum Company (NP), a state-owned oil company, and
local subsidiaries of international oil companies (Shell and Mobil). All the three companies either
pick up their market share of products from the refinery, whenever available, or import from
their own sources. Consumption of petroleum products declined from 200,000 tons in 1978 to an
all-time low of 133,000 tons in 1987. The consumption increased to 190,000 tons in 1989 but
declined again to 163,000 tons in 1990. The decline and fluctuation in consumption mainly
reflects constraints on imports caused by shortages of foreign exchange and procurement
problems. See Annex 1-2 for mne breakdown of consumption among various petroleum products.
1.09      Until July 1990, the SLPRC was responsible for importing petroleum by obtaining
foreign exchange from the Government. However, due to limited foreign exchange resources, the
Government was not able to provide sufficient foreign exchange in a timely manner for importing
crude oil and petroleum products. This caused periodic shortages, creating parallel markets for
products at prices three to four times higher than official prices. In addition, often the cost of
imported petroleum was higher than normal because of inability in planning to take advantage of
best going prices in the market, as well as purchases in small parcels with high freight cost.
Government eliminated the SLPRC's import monopoly in July of 1990 by allowing the petroleum
marketing companies (or other interested parties) to import products directly. There has been
some improvement in fuel supplies with reduced pressure on the Government's foreign exchange
budget. Pump prices were increased about five fold between June i989 and September 1990 (see
table below). At the same time a pricing formula was introduced to reflect changes in world
prices and exchange rate, while allowing for distribution margins. The strufture of pricing
formula was adjusted in October 1991 to: (i) reflect the economic cost of importation of products;
(ii) allow for a sufficient profit margin to encourage the importation and distribution of petroleum
products; and (iii) substantially increase Government excise tax on an ad valorem basis. This
brought up the prices of gasoline and diesel to about US$2/imperial gallon in late 1991.



-4-
REUAIL PRICES OF PrROLEUM PRODUT, LEI[O
AsofJune30, 1989                 110        90          100          31
AsofFebrnaql5,199()             250         200         240          79
As of June 29,1990              300         250        290           91
AsofAugut31, 1990               So0         435        450          105
As of luue, 1991                SS0         450        S0           206
As of Octobor,1991              900         845                     357
W Picegald by'NPA.
1.10      Under the proposed Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) to improve petroleum
supplies, IDA over a period of 18 months would finance about one-third of the country's annual
bill for petroleum imports. The balance would be met through improved availability of foreign
exchange resources in the commercial banks, which is exocted to be brought about by the policy
reforms associated with RIC (i.e. maintaining liberalized exchange and trade systems and a
transparent diamond mining policy). As agreed under the RIC, the Government will divest itself
of its share in the refinery and a medium-term supply contract ci,th a reputable international oil
company will be m place soon. Also, future changes in the price oI petroleum products will be
triggered automatically through the operation of the pricing formula when landed cost changes by
5 percent or more.
H. THE -OWnERL R
A. Organiztion
2.01       The MLEP has the overall responsibility for the power sector, while NPA is the
public utility charged with generating, transmitting and distributing electricity in Sierra Leone.
The MLEP is responsible for establishing and controlling implementation of overall policy of the
power sector on behalf of the Government, and it is to perform that role by approving
concessions, appointing the members of the Board of Directors of NPA and reviewing its annual
budgets and reports. Development of the power sector in Sierra Leone was the responsibility of
the Government's Public Works Department (PWD) until 1964, when the Government created the
Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC). SLEC was managed by a Board of Directors
appointed by the Minister of Works and developed largely as an autonomous corporation operated
on a commercial basis up to 1969, when its senior management was changed fnllowing serious
labor unrest. The "oil crisis" of 1973, combined with a series of failures in the Kingtom power
station, accelerated SLEC's financial deterioration. In 1974, the Government abolished SLEC's
Board and vested management responsibility in the then newly-reated Ministry of Energy and
Power. The Ministry retained a foreign consulting firm to provide day-to-day management which
remained until mid-1982. A study of the organitional and financial requirements of the power



sector was carried out in 1980-1981 by the Eleticity Supply Board of Ireland (ESB) with UNDP
financing and the Bank as executing agency. On the basis of ZSB's recommendations, the
National Power Authority (NPA) was established on January 21, 1982, through the National
Power Authority Act, to succeed SLEC.
2.02       Today the power sector in Sierra Leone Is in a state of physical and financial
disrepair, reflecting years of neglect, poor management, and a shortage of foreign exchange.
Organizational and managerial problems of the power sector could be divided into two categories:
(i) probiems arising out of the institutional framework within which NPA operates, and (ii)
managerial and operational deficiencies within NPA itself. The first problem is addressed here,
and the second problem is discussed later (para 3.02). The National Power Authority Act of 1982
was established to provide NPA with a high degree of autonomy through an independent Board of
Directors made up of five to seven members appointed by the MLEP who also appoints the
'Board's Chairman. However, there has been a high degree of Government interference in the
utility's affairs, which can partly be traced to Government's history of directly operating t0'
ut9lity until 1964 and, then again, over the period 1974-82. Although recent developments have
given NPA more autonomy than it has had in the past, it remains to be seen to what extent the
Government interference is reduced in practice.2/ Previously, MEP officials got involved in the
day-to-day management of NPA and the involvement by them extended to important operational
areas such as managemcnt decisions to disconnect non-paying customers. Indeed, the offices of
the Minister, Permanent Secretary, Chairman of the NPA Board, General Manager, and Deputy
General Manager are all still located on the same floor in the NPA's headquarters building which
facilitates interference of the Government in NPA's operations.
2.03       NPA needs to have a strong and independent Board of Directcrs in order to manage
its affairs without undue interference from the Government. The NPA Act oQ 1982 does not
explicitly define the responsibilities and qualifications of the Board members v'ho could be
removed at the discretion of the Minister of Labor, Energy and Power. 'Me Governent has
agreed to review and modify the 1982 NPA Act particularly with regard to the mandate to NPA,
the composition, qualifications and appointment of the Board members, and responsibilities of the
Board to ensure that NPA will operate with an adequate degree of autonomy. To further
underscore its commitment to give NPA fill autonomy, Government has agreed to hire a firm to
manage NPA under a performance-based management contract. Changing the NPA Act requires
parliamentary approval; therefore, in the meantime, the required modifications will be
incorporated in a management contract to be approved by the Government and NPA as discussed
in para 3.12.
B. Generation Failities
2.04       Total installed electricity generation capacity in Sierra Leone is about 120 MW, of
which 116 MW are diesel power plants, and 4 MW are hydroelectric (one run-of-river hydro
plant in the Guma Valley). Of the total installed diesel capacity, NPA operates 33.4 MW in a
major grid (Western Area) and 14.5 MW in isolated provincial stations. There are some 28 MW
2I NPA's Board of Directors was replaced last August and a new Ministem was appointed last
September. The new Board members are from the commerce, industry and banking
sectors, have more appropriate qualifications, and seems to have played a major role in
substantially increasing electricity tariffs last August.



- 6-
of captive capacity in the mining sector located far from the Western Area served by NPA.
However, because of the unreliability of the power system, there has been a proliferation of
captive private generation in recent years in areas served by NPA. These private sets range in
size from a few kilowatts for a private dwelling to hundreds of kilowatts installed in commercial
and industrial establishments. The private generation capacity in Freetown was estimated at 30
MW by the Energy Assessment Report and was confirmed by a survey prepared by NPA in 1989.
A preliminary update of the survey carried out for the reappraisal mission indicates that the total
capacity of auto-generators had reached 40 MW by the end of 1991.
INSTALLED GENERATION CAPACIY-FY92
:    sr Area                                        33.4
: v    : Diael Plants                               14.5
''"' ma Rydro Plant      '.
Subtotal:                                         5.9
28.3
Subttal
TOTrAL                                  IZ
2.05       NPA's two diesel generating plants serving the grid of Westemn Area system have a
total installed capacity of 33.4 MW. 'Te largest one is the Kingtom plant with two 9.2 MW
Suizer marine low-speed units installed in 1978-80, and four high speed KHll units of 3 MW
each installed in 1986. There are three 6.6 MW MAN units at the Kingtom plant that were
installed in 1964-71 but have now been decommissioned. The smaller plant at Falconbridge with
3.0 MW of installed capacity (derated by 50 percent) op-aates only sparingly. The calculated
firm capacity of the Western Area System (available capacity less largest unit) was 31.0 MW at
the beginning of ' 1980. This capacity was reduced to 25.6 MW in July 1981 but could handle the
25.0 MW peak demand readhed in the last quarter of 1981. By year-end 1984 the fim capacity
had dropped to 8.8 MW and it reahed a low of 6 MW in September of 1986. The firm capacity
was significanldy boosted to 18 MW in March of 1987 when the KHD units became operational,
but declled again when these units broke down.  hne firm capacity of Western Area system is
esimated at about 6.5 MW in FY91. Available capacity of the Westen Area was reduced to
virtuWaly zero in the first quarter of FY92, but NPA was late able to partially utiize some of the
KHD units.
2.06       The extremely poor condition of the Kingtom staton is the result of poor
maitenance, shortage of spare parts, and inadequate technical skill of the NPA staff. Shortage of



- 7 -
spare parts is compounded by difficulty in obtaining foreign exchange. When die first units of the
Kingtom plant were financed by the Bank Group in 1963 provision was made for expatriates to
operate them because the utility's staff was not familiar with units of this size. The expatriate
assistance ended in the late 1970s, when the utility's finances had started to deteriorate in parallel
with worsening economic conditions in the country. Foreign exchange was scarce and spare parts
could not be purchased. As a consequence, plant maintenance deteriorated when the first three
units (MAN), due to age, were requiring more intensive maintenance. To offset the levering
performance of these units, the newer ones (Sulzers) were overworked, aggravating L overall
condition of all units. Major overhauls were delayed considerably and the engines started to
experience frequent and prolonged breakdowns which continue to date. As for the KHD units,
they have been used as base load units since their installation in late 1986 because of the
unavailability of the MAN and Sulzer units. But, unlike the MAN and Sulzer units, the KHD
units are small high speed engines with a shorter operational life and are mainly designed for
standby or peaking operation. Therefore, the KHD units are being ruined by constant use as base
load units and inadequate maintenance. Under the proposed project the Sulzer units will be
rehabilitated and the MAN units will be replaced with new smaller size units to provide the
capacity for base load operation. Rehabilitation of the KHD units will be carried out under an
emergency rehabilitation program discussed in the paragraph below.
2.07       Lack of proper maintenance and the poor quality of the fuel oil used caused a
complete breakdown of the KHD units and, finally, Kingtom power station was completely shut
down during the month of July 1991 leaving Freetown with virtually no public supply of
electricity. The continuous deterioration of the power station is illustrated by the monthly
generation graph in Annex 2-1. Given the seriousness of the situadon and upon request from
NPA, EC in consultation with IDA and GTZ financed a study to prepare an emergency
rehabilitation program. The study was prepared by the same consultants (Lahmeyer Engineering
Co.) previously involved in studies required by the main rehabilitation project and culminated in a
report that was submitted in October of 1991 to NPA and was reviewed with the re-appraisal
mission. As a result, the Government and NPA, in consultation with IDA, have decided to opt
for the emergency rehabilitation of all KHD units, as well as Sulzer #4 unit. This program is
expected to be completed by mid-1992 and should hold the system together, albeit with reduced
capacity (18 MW) and reliability, until the main rehabilitation project begins. The emergency
rehabilitation program would dovetail into the proposed Power Sector Rehabilitation Project. The
emergency program will in effect advance some of the measures that were to be undertaken under
the rehabilitation project. However, given the limited scope of the program, its effect will not be
long lasting in the absence of the proposed rehabilitation project. It is hence critical that the
rehabilitation project commence as envisaged, otherwise the gains made under the emergency
program will vanish. For more detail on the emergency rehabilitation program see Annex S1.
2.08       There are 15 isolated provincial systems that are supplied by diesel sets of various
sizes ranging from 0.1 MW to 2.0 MW of capacity (Annex2-2). The largest system is at Bo
which has a new 5.3 MW power plant built in 1987 under a Danish grant and is connected by a
transmission line through Kenema to the run-of-river hydroplant at Goma. There are 4 other
provincial systems with installed capacity of 1 MW or more including the one at Lungi airport
near Freetown which has 3 units of 0.5 MW each. With the exception of Bo, the situation in
many provincial systems is worse than Freetown with little or no available capacity to generate
power. The proposed project covers only the rehabilitation of NPA's Western Area system. See
paragraph 3.08 regarding improvement of the provincial systems.



C. Distribution- FadUlties
2.09       Primary distribution in Freetown is at 11 kV and secondary distribution is at
230/400 volts. Ihe industrial area of Freetown is located about 16 km from NPA's main source
of generation at Kingtom. To reduce voltage regulation difficulties and increase the carrying
capacity, a 33 kV subtransmission system for Freetown was built in 1984 but could not be utilized
fully because of a faulty cable which still needs to be repaired. The 11 kV switchgear at Kingtom
power station is in such a bad condition that it is beyond rehabilitation and needs to be replaced
when the plant is rehabilitated. The 11 kV primary substations on the Western Area network,
which are fitted with oil circuit breakers, have been placed under great strain because of lack of
maintenance and regular load shedding since 1983 leading to contact erosion and in some
instances, malfunctioning of the circuit breakers. The complete identification of the work that
needs to be carried out to rehabilitate the existing subtransmission and distribution system (33/11
kV) was achieved through an engineering study financed under the PPF. Rehabilitation of the
Western Area subtransmission and distribution network will be carried out under the proposed
Project.
D. Electrdqt Conswmnto  and l)emand EorecW
2.10       Electricity sales increased steadily during the decade preceding 1982 before power
supplies started to decline because of equipment failures and fuel shortages (see table below). In
the Western Area, from FY71 to FY82 electricity sales grew by 4.6 percent per year, but, from
FY82 to FY91 NPA's generation and subsequently sales declined sharply at about 11 percent per
year. Generation and sales in FY91 declined substantially below their FY71 levels (see Table
below). The situation became even worse with a reduction of about 60 percent in power
generation and sales during the FY92. Before the sharp decline in power generation in the recent
years, some 80 percent of the power generated by NPA was consumed in the Western Area with
the following breakdown of sales by consumer category: Residential, 46 percent; Large
Commercial/ Industi, 30 percent; Small Commercial/Industrial, 22 percent; Others, 2 percent.
Western Area system, which supplies the Freetown area, served about 25,000 consumers out of
total of about 35,000 in the country.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....    ..........   ....... ... .... ...
S~~~~~         ....    .. ... A... 
76~~0  1$~.%  52.7  20.7  $~~3%  -9.8%   -60.7
Sae        i      0.      9.R     '~      13R        '4.6      -1,%   .0, '%.
~~~~~~~~~~.. -.  :.  X:X.........    .... 
2.11       The pattern of electricity generation and sales discussed above clearly indicates that
power consumption in Sierra Leone is now characte&r;ed by a highly suppressed demand due to



- 9 -
inadequate supply brought about by a very low availability of the NPA's installed capacity and
worsened by fuel supply problems. The inadequate and unreliable power supply has seriously
inconvenienced residential consumers and adversely affected economic activity across a wide
spectrum of users from tourist hotels to commercial and industrial establishments. A measure of
the suppressed demand (the gap between estimated demand and available supply at the prevailing
tariff rates) and the associated economic losses due to proliferation of auto generation are
provided in the Energy Assessment Report and summarized here. The suppressed demand for the
country in FY86 was estimated at 81 GWh, of which 54 GWh was in the Western Area. Auto
generation was estimated at 40 GWh, mostly (80 percent) by commercial and industrial
establishments, with additional cost to the economy of US$4 million per year due to the higher
fuel and capital costs of privately owned generators. The suppressed demand and the losses to the
economy have continued to date if not worsened. In FY91 and FY92 NPA's generation was only
36 percent and 14 percent of what was needed to meet the demad in Western Area. Auto
generation is now estimated to be about 60 GWh per year in Western Area. As for the future
demand for electricity, the Energy Assessment Report, under its base case scenario, projects an
average annual growth rate of 4.6 percent per year during 1990s for the Western Area which
follows no growth in late 1980s and starts with about 2-3 percent growth in early 1990s. This
projection conservatively assumes only 2-3 percent annual GDP growth rate in 1990s after modest
economic reforms are gradually introduced and begin to produce results. For this report, the
demand for electicity is based on the projections of the Energy Assessment Report as provided in
Annex 2-3 which show electricity demand forecast for the Western Area and how it is expected to
be met through mid-1990s by the rehabilitation of the NPA's generation and distribution facilities
(Annex 2) under the proposed project.
E. Secor .I& Lt
1. Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities
2.12       At present the Western Area System needs at least 33 MW of firm capacity to meet
the peak demand for power. In FY91 NPA's firm capacity was about 7.5 MW with the
corresponding shortfall in energy generation of about 92 GWh. Rehabilitation of the two Sulzer
units (2x9 MW), replacement of the MAN units (with 2x5 MW new units), and rehabilitation of
the subtransmission/distibution system that are considered under the proposed project, together
with rehabilitation of the four KHD units (4x3 MW) under the emergency program, would enable
NPA to meet the demand through FY96. Tne Sulzer and new medium-speed units would be used
for base load operations while the high-speed KHD units would normally serve the peak.
Deficiencies would be compensated with auto generation from the available privately owned
generating capacity which would be utilized and retired gradually in the course of the next few
years. This is the least cost option to meet the demand for electricity in the short term. Any
other thermal option would not be less expensive and the construction of the Bumbuna
hydroelectric project will not be completed until at least FY97 (see paras. 2. 13-2.18 below). It
should be noted that the proposed project is addressing the minimum rehabilitation requirements
of NPA's Wester Area system and will only restore NPA's generation and distribution
capabilities to their previous levels of a decade ago. In the absence of the proposed rehabilitation
project, the available capacity restored under the emergency program would gradually diminish to
zero in a few months. This would result from the dilapidated state of the installations and lack of
maintenance which would require the continued operation of the KHD units in base load, rather
than peaking service, thereby reducing their useful life. Furthermore, the state of disrepair of the
Sulzer units is such that rehabilitation, rather than maintenance, is required to keep them



- 10 -
operating longer than a couple of years. If rehabilitation is not undertaken, the mechanical and,
more probably, the electrical equipment would soon suffer a catastrophic breakdown, and the risk
of a major fire would increase significantly.
2. Bumbuna Hydro Scheme
2.13       The Government of Sierra Leone has decided that the next step in meeting the
system demand in the medium term is the development of the Bumbuna Hydro scheme. In the
early 1980s the Bumbuna hydro scheme was included as the next generation project in Sierra
Leone's least-cost generation and transmission development program which was prepared under
Credits 734-SL and 1265-SL. The Bumbuna scheme was identified by engineering consultants in
1971 during a comprehensive survey of Sierra Leone's hydroelectric potential. After a
preliminary study of the hydroelectric potential of the Seli river, a further review recommended a
staged development of this river with Bumbuna Falls as the first stage. In 1977, IDA (Credit
734-SL) and the OPEC Fund financed a comprehensive feasibility study of the project, which was
completed in 1980. Also, with the OPEC Fund, IDA (Credit 1265-SL) financed in 1982 further
engineering work, including preparation of bidding documents for Bumbuna (70 MW).
Meanwhile, the Sierra Leone Government obtained a loan from the Italian Government to build
the permanent camps and river diversion works of the project. This work was completed by the
end of 1984.
2.14       In 1983, the Bank prepared a reporta/ which concluded that under the economic
conditions in Sierra Leone at the time, further major work on the Bumbuna project should be
deferred until such conditions improved, particularly those related to balance of payments and
debt servicing. Simultaneously, NPA's consultants together with Bank staff, examined firther
staging of the Bumbuna scheme to benefit from the relatively large investments4/ already made
by Government in the Bumbuna project, while maintaining its economic merits under falling oil
prices. Certain components of the project, such as transmission circuits, were deferred and the
size of the project was reduced through design modifications but without jeopardizing the work
already done or further stages in the Seli river power development as originally designed. The
reduced Bumbuna with a single Turbine of 47 MW installed capacity and a single circuit
transmission line would require an investment of about US$160 million in addition to what has
already been invested. It is essentialy a run-of-river plant with firm capacity of 24 MW, firm
energy output of 157 GWh/year, and expected average energy output of 290 GWh/year.
2.15       The analysis carried out for the Energy Assessment Report in 1987 confirmed that
the reduced Bumbuna followed by a pure thermal development was the least cost generation
development program over a wide range of load forecasts and oil prices assumptions.J/ This
development wiUl also allow diversification of the country's energy supplies and provide some
insurance against oil supply disruptions. Also, a preliminary estimate of the balance of payment
impact of the reduced Bumbuna made for the Assessment keport suggested that the reduced
l/   Macroeconomic impact of Bumbunz Hydroelectric Project, dated November 22, 1983.
A/   According to Government accounts, these expenditures amount to US$42 million.
E/   However, according to the Assessment Report there may oe some room for improvement in
the design and sequencing of the project.



- Ii -
Bumbuna will lead to greater net outflows than the pure thermal scheme, but the level of excess
outflows was relatively small averaging US$1-2 million per year. The balance of payment impact
would be more favorable under a better financing arrangement than the 12-year loan with 10
percent interest which was assumed for the analysis in the Assessment Report. Beyond the loan
payment period, the investment in Bumbuna would save between US$5-10 million (depending on
oil prices) per year in foreign exchange through the reduction in oil imports. While the reduced
Bumbuna scheme would not add significantly to debt servicing compared to thermal alternatives,
initial financing of such a lumpy investment could create problems given the constraints on the
foreign exchange resources of the country and fiscal revenues required for meeting local costs.
2.16       During 1988-89 the Government actively sought financing for the reduced Bumbuna
scheme, and a loan agreement for financing the civil works of the reduced Bumbuna Scheme (47
MW installed capacity) was signed in October 1989 between the Governments of Sierra Leone
and Italy. The Italian contractors started work at the project site in early 1990. Subsequently,
financing for the rest of reduced Bumbuna (i.e., electromechanical equipment, transmission line
and substations) was completed by the Government with a loan from African Development Bank
(AfDB) which was approved in December of 1990.§/ However, since the Government has
directly undertaken the construction of Bumbuna, NPA's investment program consists mainly of
the emergency rehabilitation program and the proposed project (see Annex 2-S1. The Government
is also proceeding outside of NPA with construction of 5 other small and mini hydro projects-
Goma/Dodo, Binkolo, Kambia, Moyambu, and Mowoloko-under bilateral financing. Given
NPA's fragile financial situation (see Chapter 5), and in order not to prejudice the successful
implementation of the proposed project, during negotiations agremnt was reached with the
Government and NPA that: (a) NPA would annually review with IDA its five-year rolling
investment program and its related financing arrangements; and (b) no investment in the power
sector exceeding one million dollars per year other than the proposed project, the reduced
Bumbuna, and the other five hydro projects would be carried out by NPA and/or the Government
unless IDA is satisfied that they are technically and eczonomically sound, and do not adversely
affect NPA's financial performance. Also during negotiations, agrement was reached that, if any
of these hydro projects (particularly Bumbuna) were to be transferred to NPA, IDA would be
consulted and that such transfers would not adversely affect the financial viability of NPA.2/
2.17       Since the power sector lacks a comprehensive and up-to-date least cost development
plan, the Government and NPA have agreed with IDA that a study will be financed under the
proposed project to prepare a master plan for future development of the power sector in Sierra
Leone. All concerns regarding Bumbuna scheme's technical aspects, economic viability, etc.,
would be addressed under this study. NPA has provided IDA with a draft terms of reference for
the Master Plan Study. During negotiations    was reached that NPA will: (a) carry out
the study according to the terms of reference attached as Annex 2 ; (b) furnish to IDA for its
{/   The Italian loan is in the amount of US$102 million equivalent at the interest rate of 1.5%,
payable in 30 years with 10 years of grace. The AfDB loan is in the amount of US$41.8
million equivalent payable in 50 years with 10 years of grace; and the grant portion is in
the amount of US$3.3 million.
7/   Since NPA has already been partially committed to the Bumbuna project with a subsidiary
loan agreement under the AfDB loan, this commitment is reflected in NPA's financial
forecast in Chapter S.



- 12 -
review and comments the results of the study; and (c) carry out the recommendations of the study
in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to IDA. It is expected that the study will be completed
by th' end of 1994.
2.18       Significant cost overruns and delays in the construction of the Bumbuna hydro
project are a real possibility given the supervision arrangements presently in place. A properly
strengthened NPA is the appropriate organization to execute and supervise the construction of
Bumbuna, and the MLEP should accept the role of supervisor and leave project execution to its
executing agency. AfDB has already requested NPA to supervise those components that are being
financed by AfDB, but supervision of the rest of the project (i.e., the civil works) still remains
with the MLEP. During negotiations, agreeent was reached that the supervision of civil works
of the Bumbuna hydro project will be placed under a strengthened NPA, and IDA will finance a
resident expert and a Board of Consultants made up of internationally-recognized experts to assist
NPA in supervision of Bumbuna.5/ Also, during negotiations, agreement was reached to
prepare technical studies that are required to connect Bumbuna to the NPA network. These
studies are included in the Master Plan Study mentioned in the previous paragraph.
F. Bank Group Role in the Power Subsotor
1. ast Lending
2.19       The Bank Group has lent US$17.7 million to Sierra Leone for development of its
power sector. The first two loans, US$3.8 million in 1964 (338-SL) and US$3.9 million in 1968
(533-SL), helped SLEC finance the installation of the first three diesel units at the Kingtom power
station in Freetown, diesel sets in provincial centers, and expansion of associated distribution
facilities. A US$5.0 million IDA credit (734-SL) was made in 1977 to help finance an extension
of electricity generation and distribution facilities in Freetown and in several provincial centers,
technical assistance, and a feasibility study for the Bumbuna hydroelectric development. To
complete preparation of the Bumbuna project and assist in the rehabilitation of NPA, the US$5
million Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1265-SL) was made in 1982. This
credit, before the overall Bank disbursements to Sierra Leone were suspended in 1987, was to
finance: (a) completion of engineering preparation of the Bumbuna hydro project; (b) mechanical
improvements in the Kingtom engines including a new cooling system; (c) support of institutional
improvements in the power sector; and (d) overseas training of NPA senior staff, and technical
assistance. Equivalent of about one million SDR remains under Cr. 1265-SL which were
reallocated for purchase of spare part for the Kingtom power plant before suspension of
disbursements.
2.20       The review of the performance of SLEC under Loan 533-SL (Project Performance
Audit Report No. 1610 of May 27, 1977) showed no improvements in the financial and
managerial capacity of the utility and a decline in the reliability of the Western System. These
problems were addressed by Credit 734-SL. The Project Completion Report for Credit 734-SL
(No. 4525 of May 31, 1983) shows that SLEC had not improved institutionally, and that the
reliability of its system remained inadequate. The main reasons for the failure were attributed to
insufficient foreign exchange and poor management. With Credit 1265-SL, IDA assisted the
sector towards resolving the problems pointed out in the stated reviews. Although there have
I/ This would be carried out in consultation with the AflDB.



- 13 -
been some improvements, much work remains to be done and neither Government nor NPA have
fully complied with conditions of the Credit. In early 1985, IDA proposed a credit, with
cofinancing from the European Investment Bank (EIB), to rehabilitate Sierra Leone's power
sector. Processing of that Credit was stopped at the negotiations stage mainly because it was
learned that Sierra Leone was about to purchase the 4 KHD units for Kingtom power station
which were not included in the agreed investment program of NPA.
2. Objectives. Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvemejn
2.21       The Lmmediate objectives of IDA in the Power sector of Sierra Leone are to restore
adequate supplies of power in the Western Area, and improve managerial capabilities and
institutional arrangements of NPA. The longer-run objective of IDA is to assist Sierra Leone
provide electricity to more of its people in a more efficient and cost effective way. To achieve
these objectives, IDA's strategy is to assist NPA and the Government to:
(a)  restore service availability and reliability to adequate levels thereby gaining
consumer's satisfaction and strengthening of NPA;
(b)  carry out instit-tional and organizational reforms to achieve operational efficiency
and help restore financial viability of NPA;
(c)  develop managerial capabilities through on the job and overseas training to manage
and operate the power sector; and
(d)  develop a strategy for optimal development of the power sector utilizing indigenous
energy resources, in particular the country's hydroelectic potential.
2.22       The power sector is a high priority sector, whose rehabilitation is essential for Sierra
Leone's economic recovery. IDA's involvement is necessary to assist the Government and NPA
to effectively carry out the much needed institutional improvements as well as physical
rehabilitation of NPA's facilities. IDA's involvement would also help mobilize the financing that
is needed to rehabilitate the power sector. Since the public supply of electricity is severely
constrained, any improvement to the power system will have an immediate positive impact on the
economy and high visibility in Freetown, which would be helpful to the Government in carrying
out difficult economic and social reforms. To ensure adequate commitment on the part of Sierra
Leone agreement has been reached with the Government, NPA and other donors on a graduated
response to rehabilitation of the power sector whereby each phase of project preparation and
processing has been and will be based on measures taken by the Government and NPA. These
measures include: agreement on sector investment program; implementation of NPA's capital
restructuring; change in Ministry of Energy and Power and appointment of a new NPA Board
(which are expected to lead to less interference in NPA's affairs); substantial tariff increase
(August 1991); substantial staff reduction; and agreement on hiring of a private firm to manage
NPA.



- 14 -
m. NPA - TME MM MG AGENCY
3.01       The beneficiary and implementing agency of the project is NPA. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Sierra Leone, and the IDA Credit would be onlent to NPA (para 4.05).
A. Or0aatn- and Maagmnt
1. Revision of NPA Ac
3.02       NPA's management is entrusted to a Board of Directors which appoints the General
Manager. The General Manager is the Chief Executive Officer and an ex-officio member of the
Board. In addition to NPA's lack of autonomy from MLEP (para 2.02), the functions and
separate responsibilities of NPA's Board and Management are not adequately defined in the NPA
Act, with the result that the General Manager cannot run the utility effectively on a day-to-day
basis. Ideally, the Board should set the policy and the General Manager should implement it.
But, the structure of delegation of authority is not geared towards achieving this objective.
Matters that should be finally dealt with at the General Manager's level go to the Board for
approval. The General Manager is yet to have adequate financial independence and needs to get
the approval of the Board for expenditure of rather small amounts. On the other hand, in many
matters, too much authority is concentrated in the hands of the General Manager and too little is
vested in the middle managers and supervisory staff. Responsibilities are not clearly defined and
there is often little or no accountability in the utility. The Government and NPA have agreed to
review and clearly define the functions and responsibilities of the Government, and NPA's Board
and Management, to be reflected in the NPA Act. A set of revisions to the NPA Act was
proposed by the Government and NPA. During negotiations, g    was reached on revision
of NPA Act as described in Annex-l3. Changing the Act requires parliamentary approval,
therefore, in the meatime the revisions will be incorporated in the management contract to be
approved by the Government and NPA as discussed in the following paragraphs. Submission of
the revisions of the NPA Act to the Parliament is a condition of credit effectiveness.
2. Maame  Cact
3.03       The present management problems have severely constrained NPA's ability to cope
with the crisis that it is facing, and there is shortage of qualified staff to properly run the utility.
The Government and NPA concur with this assessment and agree that NPA's management needs
to be substantially strengthened if the ultimate objective of converting NPA into a financially
viable and operationally efficient utility is to be achieved. NPA's organization, management and
technical assistance requirements were examined by Electricite de France International, EdFI, and
were reviewed by IDA. It was agreed by all parties concerned that strengthening NPA's
management and transforming it into an autonomous and viable utility requires new ideas, outside
know-how and large technical and managerial inputs from a mature operating utility and/or a
utility consulting firm. In the past, technical assistance was tried but the results were not
satisfactory.2/ In technical assistance programs, the driving force that makes success possible is
2/ Under Credit 1265-SL, NPA obtained technical assistance from an outside firm from 1983
to 1985. Ihe expatriate personnel were given executive titles but functioned only as
consultants. Ihis arrangement did not work well due to NPA's reluctance to accept the
expatriate team in line management functions based on NPA's prior poor experience with
the expatriate team in line management positions.



- 15 -
the professional pride of the firm and the experts involved. However, experience shows that
although this is a necessary condition, it is often not sufficient to guarantee success. TMe experts
and the firm are often discouraged and their impact is often marginad at best. Past experience in
Sierra Leone show that a new approach must be tried. In the interim, it has also been recognized
that an arms-length relationship with the Government, a prerequisite for autonomous and efficient
operation, can only be possible through the participation of the private sector in the power sector.
3.04       It has therefore been agreed with the Govermnent that it will retain the services of a
qualified firm to manage NPA on its behalf. All assets will remain with the Government, who
will also be responsible for the planning and the investment in the sector. The firm to be hired
could be a utility, a consulting firm, a management firm or a consortium of two or three firms
with different specialties. To profit from the benefits inherent to the forces of the marketplace, it
has also been agreed that such a firm would be selected through international competition from a
prequalified list of firms and subsequently hired under a performance-based management contract.
This will guarantee transparency and the lowest prices from all qualified bidders. It will also
force the bidders to make use of all available local expertise and talent, thereby reducing the
number of the expatriate personnel to the minimum. Under a contract to be financed by IDA, the
firm will be hired for a minimum of three years, with provision for extension of the contract for
an additional two years subject to satisfactory performance.
3.05       The performance-based contract would have a flat fee and an incentive-based
compensation component linked to several performance indicators. To guarantee the firm's
performance, it would be required to post a performance bond before work can it. To be held
accountable, the firm must be given the necessary freedom to operate the utility m a manner
consistent with good utility practice. Among other things, it would have the right to hire and
fire, and in general, all those functions normally reserved to the management of a well run utility
and which are to be reflected in the revision of the NPA Act. As NPA's top management, it will
report directy to NPA's Board of Directors. It will also have the right to review the present
management of NPA and, in as much as possible, it will try to use their services or to reassign
them to other fimctions, including advisory positions. Finally, it will also have the responsibility
of training the staff of NPA, particularly those persons presently in management and whose
services are retained.
3.06       The success of the proposed management contract would depend to a large extent on
the suitability of the indices used to measure performance. It is anticipated that the indices will
be relatively few and easy to measure and corroborate. They will include billing, collections and
electricity loss levels, plant and unit availability and production, as well as the implementation of
automated billing, accounting, payroll and inventory control systems, the preparation of timely
financial statements and the timely presentation of the Audited Financial Statemnents without major
observations from the Auditors. Finally, performance on training and the transfer of technology
would be measured by how quicldy the expatriate personnel can be replaced by NPA's own staff.
NPA has hired an expert with funds from the PPF in order to prepare suitable bidding documents
for the management conltra according to the terms of reference attached as Annex 3-2. The
bidding documents would detail the degree of freedom that the firm will have in operating NPA,
as well as the indices to be used to judge its performance. It will also include the base value of



- 16 -
the indices as. he values that the firm will have to reach in each of the following years, as well
as the means te measure compliance. The documents will also mention the procedure for
evaluating the bids rece.ered and the bonuses and penalties to be applied for exceeding or failing to
reach the contractual indices. See Annex 3-3 for additional details on the management contract.
During negotiations, agr      was reached, on the main elements of the management contract to
be reflected in the bidding documents that are being prepared by the consultant. Hiring of the
management contractor is a condition of disbursement for the new generating unit and general
plant components of the project.
B. P-rovince
3.07       Management and operation of NPA's 15 Provincial Systems are compounded by
poor communication (i.e., road transport as well as telecommunication) with Freetown. Lack of
fuel supplies has been an additional major problem for the Provincial Systems. Also, these
isolated systems are highly over-staffed accounting for over one-third of NPA staff. Coordinating
a large number of widely dispersed provincial systems from Freetown is a costly operation which
has added to NPA's finrcial and management burdens. Excluding the newly built plant at Bo
(5.3 MW) and the Lung. station (1.5 MW) which serves the airport, the remaining 13 provincial
systems represent but a small proportion of NPA's generating plant capacity and their users are
predomlsantly residential. Rehabilitation of these isolated stations is not as pressing as that of the
Western Area where a much larger number of consumers including industrial and commercial
users are concentrated.
3.08       The proposed project does not include the rehabilitation of the Provincial systems.
Indeed this process must be preceded by institutional reforms which have already been started in
some cases. For the Bo-Kenema system, where DANIDA has financed a 5.3 MW diesel station
as of July 1, 1991, agreement has been rea-hed between DANIDA, the Government and NPA
that the system (including its 4 MW hydro station) would operate autonomously. With the
technical assistance from DANIDA, the Bo-Kenema system is now being run by a Regional
Committee appointed by the MLEP and which reports to NPA's Board of Directors. The
Committee has appointd a Regional Manager who is entrusted with the day-to-day running of
the system, and has the authority to hire and fire, and set adequate compensation levels.
Furthermore, the system shall be self-sufficient financially, for which it has been authorized to
levy a tariff surcharge and will keep its own accounting. Assets of the Bo-Kenema system will
remain in NPA's books and NPA will provide for depreciation charges from its revenues. No
other support or provisions will be provided by NPA to the Bo-Kenema Provincial system.
Autonomy of provincial sysems is recommended and the Bo-Kenema arrangement with
DANIDA's assistance is viewed as a major pilot project leading to autonomy for other systems.
Once in place, the firm hired under the management contract shall analyze the merits of these
arrangements and their possible extension to other Provincial systems.
C. Peronne. nent and Tan
3.09       NPA is considerably over-staffed. NPA employed about 1473 staff in FY91, with
64 percent (953 staft) serving in the Western Area system. With about 35,000 consumers, this
represents a ratio of 23 customers per employee. Even allowing for differences in enviromnent,
facilities, etc., this number is very low compared with other udlities and NPA should be able to
manage its operations with a much smaller staff. Despite the excessive number of employees,
NPA has never been able to achieve an appropriate skill mix in the work force. The authority is



- 17 -
overstaffed in terms of Its unskilled employees while It is suffering from a shortage of skilled
staff. Although salary levels were increaed substantially in October 1991, NPA's ability to
recruit qualified staff continues to be constrained by low wages. Staffing problems are further
compounded by weak supervision and imposition of civil service personnel polices which make it
extremely difficult to transfer, promote, and/or discipline employees. Reducing the number of
employees has proved difficult in the past as most employees are union members.
3.10       As part of an overall strategy to improve operational efficiency, NPA needs to
streamline its work force. This will require a large reduction of lower level semi and unskilled
personnel and, at the same time, recruitment of appropriate numbers of skilled senior managerial,
supervisory and technical staff. During reappraisal, NPA informed IlA that a major reduction in
its staff is necessary for a successful implementation of the emergency rehabilitation program and
that it has identified the redundancies and is ready to immediately put into effect a 45 percent
reduction in its staff at the estimated cost of about 60 million leones for severance pay, which the
rGovernment has agreed to provide to NPA under the emergency program. During negotiations, it
was agreed that a 45% reduction in NPA's staff will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Additional staff reduction and/or recruitments would be carried out as deemed necessary by the
maiagement team to be hired under the management contract.
3.11       The strengthening of NPA's training operations has been the objective of several
Bank and bilaterally financed projects in the past. Although NPA has benefitted from previous
efforts, success has not been fully achieved. Credit 1265-SL provided for training overseas for
up to twelve managers, at the mid to high levels, to take place through secondment to selected
operating utilities with emphasis on work-related operating experience. Also, under a technical
cooperation agreement between the Government and the Federal Republic of Germany, GIZ bWilt
a training center at the Kingtom power station with the intention of developing and implementing
a comprehensive training program for NPA personnel. The center offered a 3-year training
course and the first group of 24 trainees (maintenance mechanics and electricians) graduated from
the center in June 1988. Since the training center by itself could not begin to address serious
problems faced by NPA, it was closed in 1989. However, the Center has been reopened recently
in anticipation of the proposed project, and it will be part of a coordinated effort to address the
institutional and technical deficiencies of NPA. NPA's training needs, including counterpart staff
and overseas training, ate addressed under the management contract and training program
(Annex 3-3. One of the responsibilities of the management contractor wiU be the preparation of
a training program for NPA. The proposed project includes a provision for traning of NPA
Personnel. Preparation of the program by the management contractor implies that it could not
start until 1994, which is unavoidable if an adequate program is to be developed. The
management contractor needs to be given the opportunity to review NPA's needs and propose a
plan to address them. One notable exception to this might be the upper management of NPA that
the management contractor decides to retain. In this case, it would be desirable to send them out
for training early, say in mid 1993, so that they can return and work with the management
contractor for an extended period of time after receiving their training.
D. El
3.12       Difficulties in obtning the fuel needed for operation of NPA's power plants has
been a major cause of supply interruptions in the Western Area and the Provincial Systems. Over
90 percent of fuel used by Kingtom power plant is heavy fuel oil and the rest is diesel oil.
Provincial stations use diesel oil, with the exception of the largest station at Bo (5.3MW) which



- 18 -
like Kingtom plant runs on fuel oil. NPA is the main consumer of residual fuel oil produced by
the refinery, and purchases the fuel oil from the National Petroleum Company (NP) which has the
only operating barge to deliver the fuel oil to NPA's tanks at the Kingtom power station. Since
NPA has often exceeded its credit limit with the oil companies for she purchase of fuel oil and
diesel, it has been forced to obtain its fuel on a cash and carry basis In past one or two years
while paying exceedingly high margins (more than 50 percent of cif prices) to NP which has thc
only means of delivering the fuel oil to NPA. Prior to the elimination of the refinery's monopoly
on importation of petroleum in July 1990, fuel oil was usually available locally from processing
of crude oil, and NPA was able to by the fuel with the local currency. Availability of fuel oil in
the country has been reduced as the operation of the refinery has declined. Scarcity and,
consequently, the poor quality of fuel oil sold to NPA caused considerable damage to and shut
down of the Kingtom station in summer of 1991. With the closing of the refinery in the near
future, fuel oil would have to be imported which requires access to foreign exchange.
3.13       With the financial recovery plan of NPA envisaged under the project (para 5.10),
NPA is expected to have adequate funds in local currency to meet its fuel requirements. To
ensure adequate supply of petroleum products in the country, IDA, through the Reconstruction
Import Credit (RIC), is providing financing for importation of petroleum products and crude oil
under a medium-term supply contract with a reputable company selected by international
competition. This is expected to improve the availability of petroleum products including fuel oil.
In the longer term, it is expected that through policy reforms associated with the Government's
structural adjustment program, adequate foreign exchange would become available in the financial
system and NPA would be able to make its own arrangement to obtain fuel oil. Since pricing of
fuel oil was not governed by the pricing formula that was used to set the price of other petroleum
products, NPA had to negotiate the price with NP. Recently, an excise duty has been imposed on
fuel oil and the Government has agreed to include fuel oil in the petroleum pricing formula.
During negotiations, the Government confimed that pricing of fuel oil is being included in the
existing pricing formula and the pricing schedule would be provided to IDA as soon as the
petroleum prices are updated, but not later than September 1, 1992. In addition, to remove the
dependence of NPA on NP, which has the monopoly over the transportation of fuel oil by owning
the only barge in Freetown, IDD . under the proposed project would finance purchase of five
tanker trucks for NPA.
E. Metering. Billing and ColeiOn
3.14       NPA's metering, billing and colection system is characterized by: (a) faulty meters;
(b) theft through direct connections to the lines, and colusion between customers and meter-
readers; (c) a cumbersome, expensive and slow billing process; and (d) a poor collection
performance. Large consumers as well as most of the Government accounts are billed manually;
other biling is computerized using the computer of the Central Statistical Office (CSO) in
Freetown. During the reappraisal of the project in November 1991, IDA was informed that the
CSO computer which used to produce the billing for the domestic and small commercial
consumers was out of service, and the last time NPA had produced computerized bills was in July
1990. Consequendy, NPA had prepared manual biUls up to January 31, 1991 for a portion of
domestic and small commercial consumers. Billing for the large consumers including
Government, which were always prepared manually, were issued through September 30, 1991.
NPA expects to improve its billing through the installation of a computer and the technical
assistance to be provided under the emergency program. At the end of FY92, non-government
consiumer receivables are estimated to be about 579 days billing (US$1.6 million) and receivables



- 19 -
from Government are estimated at 217 days (US$0.9 million, Including overdue rent). It should
be pointed out that NPA has made an effort to collect from its larger consumers and that about 85
percent of the estimated non-government receivables are due from domestic and small commercial
consumers. Installation of the in-house computers should improve this situation. NPA also has
accounts receivable for office rentals from the Govei_ment estimated at US$0.35 million
equivalent. As part of the efforts to improve NPA's financial situation, the Government had
agreed and settled its electricity arrears up to June 30, 1990. However, mainly due to the delays
in NPA billing, Government receivables have increased to the present high level. Also, NPA's
metering, billing and collecion problems have resulted in high levels of non-technical losses and
accounts receivable. Although no accurate measurements are available, noni-technical losses for
FY92 are estimated at 20 percent of net g3neration.
3.15       The NPA's billing and collection problems and high non-technical losses are
expected to be improved by the new management to be hired under a management contract.
During negotiations, agureeen was reached with the Government and NPA that: (i) NPA would
update Government billing by September 1, 1992 and other consumer billing by April 1, 1993;
(ii) the Government would settle at least 50% of its arrears (for electricity consumption and office
rentals) by April 1, 1993, and the rest by October 1, 1993 as part of the cross-debt clearance
between the Government and public enterprises under the Reconstruction Import Credit, and agree
to settle its future bills within 30 days of receipt; (iii) NPA would reduce its accumulated non-
government receivables through end-FY92 by at least 50% by March 31, 1993, and would write-
off the rest if deemed uncollectable after agreement with IDA; (iv) NPA's accounts receivable
for bills issued in each fiscal year would not exceed 90 days billing in FY93 and in FY94, and 60
days billing in FY95 and thereafter; (v) NPA would disconnect non-paying customers 60 days
after the billing date; and (vi) NPA would progressively reduce itu non-technical losses to 15
percent of net generation by FY97.
F. Accounting. Audit and !nun
3.16       NPA has a basic accounting system but it has been unable to prepare timely
accounts. The poor condition of NPA's accounting has been largely due to shortages of qualified
staff, both at the supervisory and junior levels. The mid-managerial level of NPA's financial
department has somewhat improved since the addition of two new recruits of senior professional
caliber (one as Financial Controller and the second as Management Accountant). However,
NPA's accounting systems and procedures need to be modernized and filly coordinated. Stores
accounting, costing, budgeting and statistical information and MIS, all require improvement.
There is an urgent need to prepare and implemen programs of accounting and control
improvements and financial staff training, which, inter alia, would cover: enhancements to
budget control, internal control procedures for stores accounting, fuel consumption, payroll,
revenue collection, accounts receivable, creditors and fixed asset accounting. Under the proposed
project, NPA is expected to implement the necessary changes and improvements as part of the
task of the new management team.
3.17       NPA's accounts for FY87, FY88, and FY89 have been audited by the external
auditors Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Co. The audit reports for those years, have been received
by IDA, however they are heavily qualified, particularly in regard to NPA's inability to reconcile
accounts payable and receivable to/from Government, the inventory levels with the use of spare
parts and fuel consumption, accounts receivable with sales figures and unallocated cash, and
NPA's failure to provide acceptable accounting books and records for audit purposes.



- 20 -
Additionally, the auditors have commented on the failure of NPA to include in its accounts costs
related to Bumbuna which are presently held in Government aucounts. NPA is endeavoring to
make up the backlog in its accoundng and has agreed on a timetable with the independent auditors
for the preparation of FY90 and FY91 and FY92 audited accounts. During negotiations,
agrflment was reached that submission of the FY90-91 audited annual reports to IDA will be a
condiiond credit effectiveness, FY92 audited annual report will be submitted by April 1, 1993,
and that NPA will continue to employ independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, and commencing
with FY93, will forward to IDA anmnsu audited accounts within 6 months of the end of the fiscal
year.
3.18       NPA insures against most common risks with the National Insurance Company,
which is a Government-owned concern; the policies only permit claims to be made in Leones
since the insurer does not provide foreign exchange coverage. However, despite the fact that
NPA recently increased its coverage fivefold effective from April, 1990, it presently does not
reflect the real value of NPA's assets. During negotiations, agrment was reached that: (i) after
the completion of the revaluation of fixed assets (see para 5.02), NPA will amend the values in its
insurance policies to reflect those determined in the revaluation exercise, and thereafter annually
update those values; and (ii) NPA will require its insurer to reinsure the utility's coverage in
freely convertible currencies.
IV. ME
A. froect Objecies
4.01       Mhe objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) assist NPA carry out long delayed
maintenance and rehabilitation of its Western Area generadon, subtransmission, and distribution
facilities, as well as replacement of some generating units, so as to restore an adequate and
reliable supply of electricity; and (b) strengthen NPA as an institution in order to lay the
foundatons for an autonomous and commercialy viable entity, capable of providing a reasonably
priced and reliable service to its customers. The project would also assist the Government to
develop a comprehensive sector development policy.
B. hiZ son
4.02       The project includes three main components: (i) maintenance and rehabilitaton of
generation facilities, and replacement of three decommissioned generators with two new ones; (ii)
rehabilitation and improvements in the subtransmission and distribution network; and (iii)
insdtutional strengthening of NPA through revision of NPA Act, contracting a private firm to
manage NPA, and training for NPA staff. A detailed description of the scope of the generation
and distribution components, as well as associated engineering and studies is provided in Annex
4-1. A more comprehensive project description has been prepared and is provided in the project
file. Details on the institutional strengthening component are given in Annex 3-, Annex 3-2, and
Annex 3-3. A summary of the project is presented below:



- 21 -
(a)  Gner a
(i)    Rehabilitation of the Kingtom powerhouse and two Sulzer units as well as
thoir auxiliary systems.
(ii)    Installation of two 5 MW medium-speed (300-700 rpmr) diesel generating units
in the Kingtom or Blackball Road power plants.
(iii) Provision of spare parts for the rehabilitated and for the new generating units.
(iv)    Installation of an oil-water separator and an incinerator to avoid spilling oil
into the sea.
(b)  Subtransmission
(i)    Substations: Replacement, expansion and/or rehabilitation of switchgear.
Expansion of transformer capacity and construction of a new substation.
Iii)    Lines: New 3.5 km line from Kingtom to Wilberforce. Rehabilitation of the
Congo Cross-Munmy Yoko line.
'c)  D)srbto
Q)     Rehabilitation of approximately 28 kn of damaged 11 kV underground cable
by constructing 23 km of 11 kV overhead lines and 4 km of underground
cables. Extension of about 10 km of the 11 kV network with overhead lines
to reduce the length of the LV network and therefore reduce losses.
(ii)   Rehabilitation of approximately 60 km of LV lines using overhead
construction with a mixture of aerial cables and bare conductors.
(iii)    The replacement of 5,000 meters and house service drops.
(iv)    A bare minimum rehabilitation of the public lighting system using
high/pressure sodium bulbs to conserve energy.
(v)    The purchase and installation of distnbution transformers, ring main units,
low voltage boards and other associated equipment.
(d)            StunaS1 rengthenimg
(i)    Revision of the NPA Act of 1982 to provide NPA with adequate autonomy
from the Government and clearly define the functions and responsibility of
NPA's Board and Management.
(ii)    Contractig a qualified utility and/or a utility consulting firm to manage NPA
under a performance-based management contract for a period of three years.



- 22 -
(ill)   Training of the NPA staff overseas with a utility with relevant operating
experience, preferably in a developing country (about 75 man-months for
professionals), as well as through assigning counterpart staff to the expatriate
management team and at the local GTZ training school.
(e)       9
Procurement of operating and maintenance equipment, tools, spare parts and
vehicles; and
(f)   CommunicaonanDam Processi
(i)    Increase the reach of the existing VHF system in Freetown by installing a
repeater station at Leicester Park and a base station at Falcoubridge, changing
the crystals in the existing hand held transreceivers, increasing the number of
these units by twelve, and installing fifteen transreceivers in vehicles; and
(ii)    Improve the existing data processing equipment to handle billing, accounting,
payroll and budget control, and provide five microcomputers for engineering
and planning, as well as inventory control at the different warehouses.
(g)  Engineeg ands Co= c    Serzvi  IQ/
(i)    Specifications and tender documents and construction supervision for the new
generating units;
(11)    Specifications, tender documents and supervision of the rehabilitation of the
Kingtom powerhouse and the Sulzer units, as well as their auxiliary systems;
(iii)   Specifications, tender documents and supervision of the rehabilitation of the
subtransmission and distribution systems;
(iv)    Specifications, tender documents and assistance in the procurement of
communications and data processing equipment, vehicles and other general
plant equipment and tools; and
(v)    Preparation of the Prequalification and Bidding Documents for the
Management Contract, Short-term consultancy services including a review of
NPA's tariff structure.
lQ/  Given the finacing proposed for the project, engineeing services will have to be divided
as indicated.



- 23 -
h)   Supervision of the Civil Works of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project.
A resident expert and a Board of Consultants to assist in the supervision of the
Bumbuna proJect.
(i)   Smi
(i)    Preparation of a plan to consolidate energy sector activities within a single
ministry;
(ii)    Preparation of a Master Plan for the development of the power sector of
Sierra Leone;
(iii)   Preparation of an environmental study for the Bumbuna hydroelectric project.
P) Lubricatinrem  
Procurement of lubricating oil for the generating units installed in Freetown.



- 24
C. Priucm i6
4.03       Project costs are detaied in AMU42 and smmarized below.
!1.       16l. ,3                1J .,.
' ntinR*ha.              ''.'.  . ..3.. .. '..,'... .4
''... m s < mWo '.',':','''"' ':~~~~. ....'.'':
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N'
aw:~ ~~~~~1                            20         1           2
..  ......
........ 04   p   j             09 dd
4U0452.9         tilotal Project compnet, mcl udtmg   m sont duiestrbutecuiong andes durmguiainn
general plant falcilities were defined during the appraisal and reappraisal missions withi the
assistance of NPA alld its consultants, (aAmeyer) financed under the PPF. The generation
rehabilitaion component was defined based on a comprehensive study of the Kinwtm Plant by
ILahmeyer in 1988, as updated durn te appraiW and reappraisa missions with the assistance of
ILahmeyer. Costs are based on December 1991 prices. Allowance for price escalation has been
incorporated in the US dollars cost estimate USing MUV inflxon index (i7Y93: 0.5%, FY94:
2.8%; PY95: 4.3%; and FY96: 4.3%). A physical condngenlcy of 10 percent has been used,
except fior the r ilitadon works at Kingtom where 20 percent has been used.



- 25 -
D. Pr9inandig PI
4.05       An IDA Credit of US$21 million equivalent is proposed to the Government of Sierra
Leone, which under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and NPA, would be
onlent to NPA for 20 ye3rs, including 5 years grace period at the prevailing IBRD interest rate.
NPA would bear the foreign exchange risk. 'The signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The proposed IDA Credit would
finance 35% of the total project cost (excluding duties and interest during construction) for
various components of the project as indicated in para 4.17. It is assumed that NPA will meet 74
percent of the local cost of the project (US$12.7 million equivalent) from internally generated
fimds (US$2.5 million) and equity contribution from the Government equivalent to import duties
(US$10.2 million). Also, NPA will pay the interest during construction (US$4.6 million
equivalent) from internally generated funds. Settlement of Sierra Leone's arrears with the Bank
and IDA is a condkion of gardnatDMn.
4.06       Equivalent of US$36.2 million in cofinancing is required for the proposed project.
Participation in cofinancing of the project has been under consideration by the Commission of the
European Communities (EC) and the European Investment Bank (BIB), which have kept an active
interest in the Sierra Leone's Power Sector in the past few years. The contribution from EC
would be in form of grants while ElB's participation would be in the form of a soft loan with 2
percent interest, repayable over 20 years including a grace period of 5 years. Also, the
Government has requested the Japanese Government to finance a new diesel generating unit on a
grant basis. Ihe project financing plan is set out as nnex 43 and would be reconfirmed after
further consultations with the other dceors. Confirmation of a satisfactory financing plan would
be a ndiQon gf credit effctivenes.



- 26 -
E.   rarn
4.07       Ihe project procurement arangemens are summaized in the table below.
PROCUREMJ3N  Tflr
......... ... ............   -...  --- ....  ------- ......-- . .. . .
Comp6*.nt                         103          Other        N.A.        Total
Oa~~~onR~~~~bU1tat1on ~~~~~~7P,045                      17,,045
.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  .   .;. . ....  ,..     . .
."                   '       """,' ... ..'...".
--           (    ) t        300
.    (1......0A
.~a iy..   .........: -.    .    ..     .X
BaWs gideli. Hoee, it .s expcte tha th compan: ':y .to: be hire to mang NP  (ude
r-i~Spe~Mx                                                              1,1
k   =   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1O5
~~~~~~~~~~~4~.                                              (460
BLs ubdcat1ne0  Ho00a iti800tda   h cmayt  ehrdtomlaeNA(ne



- 27 -
a performance-based management contract) will have the requisite experience. To ensure this, the
Tender Documents to be prepared for procuring the services of this company will specify
experience in procurement, preferably under Bank's guidelines, as a requirement to be met by all
bidders. It has already been agreed with NPA that Bank's Sample Bidding Documents will be
used whenever possible.
4.09       The majority of the proposed Credit, US$16,080,000 or 77 percent of the Credit,
will be used to procure goods and services under ICB. US$3,410,000 or 16 percent will be used
to procure consultants' services (engineering services, Bumbuna supervision, studies) under Bank
guidelines. US$460,000 or 2.2 percent of the Credit will be used to finance the training of
NFA's staff through suitable procedures approved by the Bank, and US$300,000 or 1.4 percent
will be used to procure spare parts, computer software and other proprietary items under
international shopping and/or sole source procurement. The remaining IDA credit in the amount
of US$750,000 or 3.7 percent, will be used to refimd the Bank for the PPF. Packages over
US$150,000 each will be subject to prior review by IDA. The procedures to be used for the
procurement of training for NPA's staff include consultations with utilities in other countries and
direct negotiations with teaching institutions or companies. Procurement under ICB will be
exempt from price verification under preshipment inspection, i.e., the pre-shipment inspection
will be limited only to the quantity and quality.
4.10       There will be one contract for IDA financed works, estimated at US$8,305,000, for
the supply and installation of a 5 MW medium speed diesel unit burning HFO which would be
totally financed by IDA and procured under ICB. There will also be five other bidding
documents for the procurement of IDA financed goods, covering the supply of communication
equipment, personal computers, distribution tools, distribution test equipment and vehicles. It is
estimated that the cost of these contracts will be about US$1,590,000 and all of them will be the
subject of ICB. Of the total, about 60 percent corresponds to vehicles, 15 percent to test
equipment, 10 percent each to distribution tools and communication equipment, and the
difference, 5 percent to computers. ICB would also be used to procure lube oil estimated at
US$800,000 and which would be totally financed by IDA. Finally, services of a company to
manage NPA under a performance-based management contract, estimated to cost US$5,385,000
and to be financed entirely by IDA, would be procured through international competitive bidding
from a prequalified list of firms. NPA will finance the import duties and any other tax levied in
Sierra Leone. All bid documents, bid evaluations, draft contracts and subsequent contract
modifications will be cleared with the Bank. A more detailed description of these goods and
services can be found in An=e 41.
4.11       Consultant services to be financed by IDA include those needed to prepare bid
documents, evaluate offers and supervise the installation of the 5 MW diesel unit, plus the
vehicles, commnication and other equipment, mentioned in the previous paragraph. The cost of
the contract is estimated at US$960,000. Provision has also been made for Consultants' Services
to prepare the Prequalification and Bidding Documents to hire the Management Contractor as well
as for short-term assignments including a review of NPA's tariff structure. The cost of these
services has been estimated at US$200,000. There will also be three IDA financed studies, a
Masterplan for the Power Sector, the Bumbuna Environmental Impact, and the Consolidation of
Energy Sector Activities in the MEP. The total ccst of these studies is estimated at
US$1,175,000. Of the total, the first study will require approximately 70 percent, while the other
two represent each 15 percent of the total. All these consultant services will be procured
following the Bank's guidelines. Finally, consultants' services have been included to supervise the



- 28 -
construction of the civil works of the Bumbuna hydroelectric project, with a cost estimated at
US$1,075,000. All consultants' services will be completely financed by IMA. All Terms of
Reference, letters of invitation, evaluation of proposals, draft contracts and contract modifications
will subject to prior review by IDA. A more detailed description of the services may be found in
Arnex 41.
4.12       It is expected that training will be provided by bringing experts to Sierra Leone or
by sending NPA's staff to utilities or universities abroad. To bring experts to Sierra Leone, at
least three candidates will be identified whenever possible and then, on the basis of technical and
financial proposals, one would be chosen. However, under very special circumstances it might be
necessary to deviate from this procedure and hire an expert directly. A similar procedure will be
used for choosing a utility or similar institution to provide training. In the case of a University, a
direct contact would be made, unless more than one university offers a particular course of the
same quality and level. Each request for proposal, and subsequently each contract and
modification thereto, will be cleared with IDA prior to submitting a disbursement request. It is
estimated that there will be approximately 10 contracts for this component. More information on
the scope of the training program can also be found in Annex 41.
4.13       As previously explained, it is anticipated that approximately US$300,000 will be
used to purchase spare parts, software and proprietary items under international shopping (with
price quotations from at least three qualified and eligible suppliers from at least two eligible
countries) and sole source. It is estimated that US$150,000 will be used for international
shopping and US$150,000 for sole source procurement. It is anticipated that four or five
contracts will result for this component. Each one of the signed contracts, as well as all the
associated background information, will have to be cleared by IDA prior to proceeding to finance
it.
4.14       The Procurement Table includes under the Not Applicable (N.A.) heading the
refunding of the PPF (US$750,000), and those components to be financed by NPA and other
cofinanciers. In all these cases, there will be competitive bidding restricted to the countries
indicated by the lender or donor. Both the EIB and the EC will restrict bidding to their member
countries, which should provide a reasonable degree of competition. Additional information on
these matters may be found in Annex 41.
4.15       Given the nature of the goods and services to be procured under the project, no
participation is expected from local contractors or consultants. The application of preferences is
therefore not anticipated. It is expected that local labor will participate in the project, and that
perhaps civil engineering contractors also will work as subcontractors. Finally, it is anticipated
that there will be no need for LCB.
4.16       Procurement matters will be discussed in the Quarterly Reports to be submitted by
the borrower. Additionally, procurement matters will be reviewed during each supervision
mission. A timetable showing the procurement activities of the IDA-financed components can be
found in An=44.



- 29 -
F. Dis nemt
4.17       The IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of 4 years on the basis of the
categories shown below and the project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996. Given
the availability of the Special Account (paa 4.18), the mininum application for direct payments
would normally be for US$20,000 equivalent. The estimated quarterly disbursement profile of
the project and its comparison to profile of power projects in Africa is shown in Annex 45.
W                                                   !  a    .   .. -   . ... ............... , 1 . .... 00 . _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . . .
CaW&*Y                Amount              %     , f dki  to"
U$$ Thou,sands    .1e -intce by A Crei
K: New Gantio                  690.00
.....  a s.. p... v             90,  
4.18       To expedite project imnplementation a SpecW Account denominated in US dollars
would be opened at a commercial bank and maintaned and operated on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. 'Me authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$150,0
representi  anticipated eligible expenditures for four months (excluding anticipated direct
payments to large overseas suppliers). Ihe Special Accout would be replenished upon receipt of
properly documented withdrawal applications on a monthy basis, provided that e request is for
a          T of US$50,000. Apj withdrawal applicatons woild be accompanied by full
doamntation, except for contracT vhiued at less than USp 20,0Ao equivalent for which
disbursements would be made against certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). In this case
documentation would be retained at the Project Implementation Unit (para 4. 20) for review by
IDA supervision missions and the project auditor.



- 30 -
G.    _jtImplmentat         d Supevsion
4.19       The project implemenation schedule is provided as Annex 4-6. The implementing
agency would be NPA which is expected to contract the services of consulting fimsnsI/ in
order to assist it with:
(a)   Tender document preparation, bid evaluation and supervision of: (i) generation
rehabilitation, (ii) new generation lnstation, (iii) subtransmission and distribution
rehabilitation, and (iv) communications, data processing and general plant;
(O)  Preparation of the required studies: (i) master plan, (ii) environmental impact of
Bumbuna, and (iii) energy sector organization.
Individual consultants will be hired to prepare the Prequalification and Bidding Documents to hire
the Management Contractor, assist in the supervision of the civil works of the Bumbuna
hydroelectric project, and carry out other short-term assignments.
4.20       NPA will set up a Project Implementation and Control Unit. The main task of the
Unit will be to monitor the compliance wfit project timetable and to prepare quarterly progress
reports. The Unit would be staffed by suitably quatified professionals (two engineers with
computer skills) and personal computers and software will be provided under the proposed project
to facilitate its task. Staff of the unit will be assisted and trained by the engineering firm
mentioned in paragraph 4.19(a). The terms of reference for engineering and project monitoring
and control consultants was agreed upon with NPA during negotiations and is attached as Annex
4-7. NPA intends to fully utlize the services of the technical assistance personnel financed by the
EC under the emergency rehabilitation program to expedite the implementation of the project
before the management contractor is hired. During negotiations, it was agrre  that the Unit will
be set up by October 1, 1992. The capability of NPA (strengthened by technical assistance under
the emergency program) in handling procurement and disbursement matters will be evaluated
during the project launch workshop mentioned in the paragraph 4.21 below and, if necessary,
short-term technical assistance would be provided to NPA. Eventually, the responsibility for
project monitoring and control, as well as for procurement and disbursement matters, would rest
with the management contractor to be hired under the project.
4.21       Recognizing NPA's unfamiliarity with IDA's procedures and guidelines, it is
proposed that within two months after Credit approval, a launch workshop will be held in
Freetown. The purpose of this workshop will be to better acquaint NPA and the Government
with IDA's procedures and therefore ensure that the project will get off to an expeditious and
good start. The workshop will concentrate on fulfilling conditions for effectiveness and
disbursement, on procurement and sample bid documents, on withdrawal requests, on reporting
(including monitoring of the key project performance indicators) and in general on all key project
events. Subsequentty, supervision missions will be sent approximately every six months, although
the frequency might be increased at the beginning, if warranted. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that there will be a mid-term review mission no later than 2 years from the date that
IDA credit becomes effective during which project staus will be exhaustively reviewed. During
11/ Under the supervision of the management contractor (para 3.04).



- 31 -
this review particular attention will be paid to: (i) the performance of the management contractor;
(ii) the compliance with covenants, particularly the financial and auditing covenants; (iii) review
of the level and structure of tariffs and their impact on autogeneration; (iv) the evolution of key
performance indicators; (iv) the progress of procurement and in general, of all project
components; (v) the implementation of the training program, and (vi) the steps to be taken te
ensure adequate power sector performance upon completion of the management contract. The
midterm review will be carried jointly by the Government, NPA, the ccfinanciers and IDA. As a
result of this mission, corrective steps will be proposed. These might include modifications in
project scope and/or components, changes in covenants, and perhaps most important of all, steps
to be taken once the management contract comes to an end. The proposed supervision program
for the project and key performance indicators for monitoring the progress of the project are
provided in Annex48.
H. Monitorirg- and lReproing Rteqursment
4.22       Overall coordination and report preparation would be made by the head of the
Project Implementation and Control Unit, awd quarterly progress reports would be made to NPA's
Board, MLEP, IDA, and other financing agencies. During negotiations, ag.memt was reached
that project accounts, NPA's financial statements, the Special Account, and the SOEs account
would be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA according to acceptable
auditing standards. The audited accounts and auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within
six months following the end of each fiscal year (para 3.17). SOEs will be reviewed by IDA on a
regular basis. In addition to the Quarterly Progress Reports, assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the Government and NPA would submit to IDA and the cofinanciers copies of all
consultants' reports and studies financed under the proposed project.
i. EnvironmeaW Asnet
4.23       The impact on the avironment on account of the proposed project, which is
classified as Environment Category B, is expected to be basically positive. The project will only
involve the construction of small buildings and the installation or replacement of equipment in
existing facilities which have not been harmful to the environment. There is a considerable
amount of fuel oil that has been spilling into the ocean from the Kingtom power station which
pollutes the nearby coastal areas. This problem will be corrected under the proposed project by
the installation of an oil and water separator and an incinerator. A similar installation will be
made in connection with the new generating capacity. The small privately-owned generators that
are used for autogeneration are less efficient and more polluting with both air and petrochemical
wastes than the centra Kingtom power plant and the new generators. The small generators are
also very noisy in the residential areas. To the extent that the small generators are reduced in
usage, there will be environmental benefits, particularly from reduction in waste disposal and
noise pollution. The project does not propose any extension of the subtransmission and
distribution system to new areas, and the improvements proposed to the existing system will have
no harmfil effects on the environment. Any transformers which are replaced will be properly
disposed of.
4.24      The Government is proceeding with constuction of the reduced Bumbuna project,
which is a run-ofthe-river scheme. The project is fianced by the Govermnent of Italy and the
AfDB. During the appraisal mission, the Government was asked to either provide an existing
satisfactory report on the environmena impact of Bumbuna, or agree to the preparation of a



. 32 -
study under the proposed proJect. Subsequently, no environmental report was provided to IDA,
and the Government has agreed that an environmental study of Bumbuna project will be financed
under the proposed project with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. A draft terms of
reference for enviromnental study of the reduced Bumbuna Project has been received from the
Government. During negotiations, a     was reached that NPA will: (a) carry out the study
according to the terms of reference attached as Am" 4; (b) fiunish to IDA for its review and
comments the results of the study; and (c) catry out the recommendations of the study in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to IDA. It is expected that the study will be completed
by the end of 1994.
V. NPA"S FNNCL4 PECREMAE AND ErQo-:cT
A. Enat nn       forman
5.01       The latest audited accounts available from NPA are those for FY89. Efforts are
planned for NPA to improve its accounting capability and accelerate the preparation and audit of
the fimancial statements (para 3.17). The financial evaluation presented here has been based on
the audited accounts of FY87-89 and financial statements constructed from available information
for the period FY90-92. These financial statements and their assumptions are set out in detail in
Annexes 5-1 to 54 and are summarized below.
6  g   X   -   :  -, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . . .   . - .. .....
.......;...-..:i,,:,j:R.,.,,aui,,,2 .. .. ....
4*  23  0.4    (1.2)   (23)   (3~~~~40
IO~~ttabX                   01..:; 'i ..4.'5  X1 X. '          o  ; -.i -   :. .:
_.~~~~~~~~ i..;  .-... -14    (24=w                  a   .,.>n  (.4)--aaa^
5.02       The Power Sector E     700w*  and Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1265-SL)
required NPA to revalue its asss by March 31, 1984 and thereater take all measures required to



- 33 -
produce an annual rate of return of not less than 8 percent on the average current net va'de of
fixed assets in operation. NPA failed to have its plant revalued, and although in FY89 a
revaluation of buildings was carried out these values were not recorded in NPA accounts.
Therefore, since NPA's annual rates of return are based on historically valued assets they cannot
be related directly to the covenant. However, even on the basis of historical costs, the rates of
return in FYQO-91 (-3.5 and -7.5, respectively) were so inadequate that they indicate non-
compliance with the covenant in those years. During negotiations, agment was reached that
NPA will revalue its fixed assets, for tariff setting purposes, by Dc..- mber 31, 1992 with effect
from FY92 according to a methodology acceptable to IDA. Subsequent annual revaluations will
be carried out according to a methodolgy agreeable to IDA.
5.03       As the above summary table indicates, NPA's earnings during the period FY87-92
were unsatisfactory. NPA has incurred losses continuously since FY89. Operating ratio, which
is a measure of NP 's efficiency, deteriorated from 70 percent in FY87 to an estimated 234
percent in FY92. Earnings have been seriously affected by the rapidly declining sales in recent
years. The FY92 sales of only 14.5 GWh is about one-third of FY9i sales and one-fifth of FY87
sales. The drop in electricity sales is due to the lack of power generation by NPA as discussed in
para 2.10. In addition, sales were affected by the high energy losses amounting to about one-
third of net generation. NPA's financial performance has also suffered from an unsatisfactory
tariff policy, losses on provincial operations, poor operational management and control, and
staffing problems. As discussed earlier, NPA lacks the autonomy of a commercial entity, and
there has been considerable interference in NPA's day-to-day operations, particularly in
procurement. These factors, together with insufficient financial resources, militate against good
operational management, increase operating costs beyond normal, and are ultimately reflected in a
poor earnings performance, and an unsatisfactory financial position.
B., E ecrdciy Tariffs
5.04       The Government has not permitted NPA to follow a realistic tariff policy. The
continued failure to meet the revenue covenant in Credit 1265-SL, and make the tariff adjustments
necessary to provide sufficient revenue to cover higher operational costs caused mainly by the
devaluation of the Leone, has brought NPA to the point of insolvency. Since almost all of 14PA's
generating plant is thermal, fuel costs, which amount to about 50 percent of total operating costs,
are determined by the price of imported oil; and are therefore highly sensitive to changes in the
value of the Leone, which from FY87 to FY92 has devalued more than ten fold. In spite of the
heavy devaluation during the period under review, it is only recently that NPA has been permitted
by the Government to make three tariff increases, the first effective from January 1, 1990 of 115
percent, the second effective from July 1, 1990 of 100 percent and the third effective from August
1, 1991 of 280 percent. However, the tariffs arising from the last increase averaging Le64.3 per
kWh (equivalent to USc15.3 per kWh at the prevailing exchange rate of 420 Le/US$) are still
insufficient to provide the revenue necessary to enable NPA to meet its financial obligations and
operate successfully. It should be pointed out that a factor impeding NPA's abilities to improve
its finances is a low volume of electricity sales, which is reflected in a further expected net loss
and negative rate of return in FY92. Average tariff would have to be increased in order for NPA
to meet the financial objectives set under the financial recovery plan discussed in para 5.10-5.12.
5.05       NPA's tariff schedule comprises seven categories of customers including residential,
small commercial/industrial, and large commercial/industrial and has maximum demand and
power factor charges for large commercial/industrial users (AueL 5-). In the case of large
commercial and industrial consumers, the tariff now is close to the cost of auto generation at the
prevailing fuel prices. NPA could lose these customers if their tariff is increased substantially



- 34 -
On the othe: hand the residential tariff is heavily suibsidized, and while it can be argued that the
small domestic consumers should be subsidized (the life line tariff), there is no justification to
subsidize the large domestic consumers. NPA's tariff structure will be reviewed under the power
sector master plan study and a tariff schedule based on the long run marginal cost of electricity
supplies will be recommended. In the meantime, a    was reached during negotiations that
in the next round of tariff adjustments, except for the first 50 kWh of consumption, residential
electricity tariff would be brought more in line with the cost of providing the service.
5.06       NPA .s required by the Government to charge uniform tariffs throughout the country
despite the fact that the entity is obliged to provide service to unprofitable provincial areas. Prior
to FY88, the Government reimbursed NPA for losses suffered in those areas which are presently
estimated at about US$0.5 million equivalent per year. More recently an agreement has been
reached between the Government and NPA to operate the largest provincial system (Bo-Kenema)
on a quasi-autonomous basis; this arrangement allows for tariff surcharges to be levied tc enable
the recovery of fill operational costs (see para 3.08). The experience with this agreement should
be thoroughly evaluated in the future with a view to possibly extending the arrangement to other
centers in order to resolve their problem of provincial losses.
C. 1inancial Position
5.07       With poor internal cash generation during the period FY87-92, NPA's limited
investment has been entirely financed from Government and Donors contributions; the principal
investments were at the Bo, Kingtom, and Dodo plants for a total of US$26.9 million equivalent.
NPA's debt as of end FY89 of US$3.7 million equivalent related mainly to IDA Credit No. 1265-
SL. Since the greater part of NPA's fixed assets have been financed by the Government, NPA
had a low debt/equity ratio of 10/90 as of end FY89; and after the debt conversion (para 5.08) it
is expected that the ratio will decline further to 7i93 as of end FY92. NPA in FY92 has no
working capital (current liabilities exceed current assets), and being without cash resources, is
only able to operate because of the assistance from large overdrafts with local banks. Also, part
of the cost of the emergency rehabilitation program (para 2.07), equivalent of US$1.6 million,
was provided to NPA as equity contributions from the Govermment.
D. Capital lBErucXrng
5.08       During the November 1989 IDA appraisal mission an understanding was reached
with the Government and NPA that if NPA's finances were to be put on a sound basis an agreed
restructuring package would have to be implemented as soon as possible, and followed up with a
financial recovery plan involving appropriste tariff increases and improved efficiency measures
over a period of years. Accordingly, a restructuring package with the following debt conversion
components was drawn up, approved by the Government and effected in NPA's accounts as of
end FY90: (a) Conversion to equity of long-term debt owing to Government estimated at US$3.7
million equivalent; (b) Conversion to equity of current liabilities owing to Government for debt
service estimated at US$5.1 million equivalent; (c) Conversion to long-term debt of amounts
owing to Govemment for the purchase of spares and materials estimated at US2.2 million
equivalent, the terms of the loan to be determined after completion of the rehabilitation project.
Evidence of satisfactory execution of these transations has been submitted to IDA.
5.09       The table on the following page gives summary of revised figures for NPA's
estimated balance sheets and capitalization for FY89 through FY92. Debt conversion components
of the restructuring package were effected in NPA's books in FY90. The initial impact of the
measures proposed are seen in FYs 90 and 91 when improvements are shown in key ratie,.



- 35 ^
...                                               : r  * .#~  .n..
c~at.                                 S.'- , 
;:
E. Finandal OWjcie
5.10       In order to improve NPA's finances and based on the proposed tariff increases,
during negotiations agrmen was reached for the implementation of the following financial
objectives:
(a)   During FY93, NPA revenues to cover all cash operating expenses (including taxes),
and interest charges; in this connection, average tarifffs in US dollar terms would be
raised by about 25 percent effective October 1, 1992 (para 5.12);
(b)  during FY94 NPA revenues to cover full operating expenses (depreciation on a
revalued basis) and interest charges; in this connection, NPA tariffs in US dollar
terms would be raised by about 16 percent in US Dollar terms effective April 1,
1993 (para 5.12) and NPA would be required to euu an after tax rate of return on
revalued net fixed assets in operation of not less than 4.5 percent for the year;
(c)  during FY95 and thereafter, NPA revenues to cover full operating expenses, and
after meeting debt service, provide a reasonable contribution to annual investment; in
this respect NPA would be required to earn after tax rates of return on revalued net
fixed assets in operation of not less than 6 percent in FY95 and thereafter; and
(d)   NPA to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 and not incur any debt
unless reasonable forecasts show that the debt service coverage ratio in all
succeeding years will be at least 1.S.



- 36 -
F. Tf  Aeon
5.11       To achieve the objectives mentioned In the previous paragrWh, during negotiations,
aereement was reached with the Govermuent and NPA that:
()   NPA would maintain tariffs at such levels as would provide revenues
necessary to meet the objectives in para 5.10;
(ii) NPA will be permitted to automatically adjust its electricity tariffs to take into
account (a) changes in the rates of exchange between the Leone and the US$,
Ob) insofar as they are not covered under the previous sub-paragraph, any
changes in fuel prices; and
(iii) NPA would make a semi-annual report on the adequacy of tariffs to meet the
objectives in para 5.10 as well as effects of tariffs on autogeneration, and
submit the reports by June 30, and December 31 of each year to the
Government and to IDA for review and action.
5.12       The undermentioned table, which is based on the financial forecasts, indicates the
average tariffs which would be required to meet NPA's finmancial objectives (para 5. 10) during the
period FY93-98, assuming an average exchange rate of US$1 = Le420 in November 1991 and a
Leone devaluation thereafter as indicated:
In order to achieve the FY93 and PY94 tariff objectives, durinmg negodaions arentwas
reached to raise the average tuf in two phases. First, 1he average tariffs would be increased by
about 25 percem in US dolla terms from their exiting level of the equivalent of US015.3 to
USc19.1 per kWh effective from October 1, IM9. Second, a subsequent tariff increase of about
16 percent in US doLla terms woutd be implemented dfcive Apri! 1, 1993, which would bring
the average turfti to Ihe equivalent of US022.2 per kWh. 'Me tariff in Leones terms will be



- 37 -
calculated at the prevailing exchange rate at the time of the tariff increase. The forecasts indicate
that little or no tariff increase would be required in PY95-96 period, but tariffs would have to be
increased again in FY97-98. However, the FY97 and FY98 tariff will need to be re-evaluated
when the full costa and reated finances of Bumbuna are lnown in order to prevent adverse effects
on NPA finances (para 2.16).
G. Enag Elm
5.13       NPA's estimated financial requirements during the execution period of the proposed
rehabilitation project (FY93-96) and the sources from which they would be met are as indicated in
the table below.
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .       - .   . . . . .. . ..  0,:'
W .s   .    ..                                               ,,......'...,. 
In addition to the financial requirements for the proposed project and small annual amounts to
cover any day-to-day investment expe&tiure, NPA's financing plan for PY93-96 includes
US$42.8 million for the Bumbuna Hydro Scheme. The total eadmted costs of Bunibuna and also
the interons of the Governmet as to their fi4cing are unknown at this stage. A loan of
US$45 miion eqyivaleS t has been provided to the Government by AfDB for the electo-
mechanical and transmission component of lthe project, and is onlent to NPA at 7.5 percent per
year with a repayment perod of 20 yem1 includhg a 6-ye  gmae period. The Govemment has
also ngotiated a credit of about US$102 million equivalent with the lWaian Government for the



- 38 -
civil works of the project, which will carry interest at 1.5 percent per year and have a 30 year
repayment period including 10 years of grace, however no decision on any onlending to NPA has
been made. In the absence of full information on the costs and financing arrangements of the
Bumbuna project so far as they concern NPA, the FY93-96 financing plan only takes intci account
the AfDB disbursements, the related investment and debt service in those years. The remainder
of the AtDB financed component has been included in the FY97 forecasts. Assuming the earliest
possible co ioning date for Bumbuna project, the Italian financed component has been
brought into the FY97 forecasts on a loan basis. The incorporation of the Bumbuna plant into
NPA's system is to be the subject of a separate condition of the proposed project (see para. 2.16).
Legislations that have been recently enacted require NPA to pay duties on the equipment and
goods that would be imported under the project. Given the precarious financial status of NPA,
during negotiations agreement was reached that Government would convert to equity the entire
NPA's import duty obligations for the equipment and goods imported under the proposed project.
These obligations are estimated to be US$10.23 million equivalent during the FY93-96.
ILA
5.14       The following summarizes the salient features of the financial forecasts for the period
FY93-98. Details and the underlying assumptions are presented in Annex  5-1 to 54.
.... . .. . . . *............... * . . . . . .m. : ...  .  . . =
... @..§m ..3i.. Z:y  ,^ 2f.g..k.::;:.:.. .'   a ....      :   -      :      ;
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .. ,.-J,.,::,,,,z
5.15       The forecasts which are in line with the financial objectives (para 5.10) indicate a
gradual improvement and strengthening of NPA's finances after FY93. NPA could expect to see
the influence of the proposed rehabilitation program on its sales and earnings in FY94 and
thereafter; the forecasts indicate after tax rates of return on revalued assets to be 4.5 percent in
FY94 and at least 6 percent in FY9S-98. The opering ratios are expected to improve
significanldy from 118 percent in FY93 to 76 percent in FY94 and gradually declining to 49
precent in FY98. Debt service coverage should be adequate for the level of debt included in the
forecast. The increase in debt/equity ratio from 20180 in FY93 to 62/38 in FY97 follows from
the high level of borrowing for investment and principally for Bumbuna; however, the FY97 ratio
sounds a note of caution that, in the interest of NPA's future development, care will need to be
exercised by the Government in dedin the capitalization of the Bumbuna hydro project and to



- 39 -
the extent that it would not adversely affect NPA's finances (para 2.16). The debt/equity ratio is
expected to gradually decline starting from FY98 (58/32).
VI. PROJECT JUSIICATION. BENEFITS. AND RISKS
A. Justification
6.01       Public electricity supply and consequently the sales in the Western Area have been
deteriorating at about 10 percent per year since 1982 and the Kington power plant was shut down
completely for a month in 1991. The inadequate and unreliable power supply has seriously
inconvenienced residential consumers and adversely affected economic activities across a wide
spectnm of users from tourist hotels to commercial and industrial establishments. Indeed,
without the proposed rehabilitation of the Kingtom power station, in less than two years available
capacity restored under emergency rehabilitation program will be reduced to zero and NPA will
not be able to generate any power to serve its customers in the Westem Area (para 2.07). In
view of the deteriorated state of the economy which requires considerable amount of investments
to improve, and considering the fact that the power sector investments are relatively capital-
intensive, the investment proposed under the project is kept at the m_iimum required to
rehabilitate and restore NPA's generation and distribution capabilities in the Western Area to their
previous levels of a decade ago. Under the proposed project NPA will carry out the much
delayed maintenance and rehabilitation of its generation facilities. While the older MAN units
have dilapidated to such an extent that they cannot be economically repaired, replacement of the
newer Sulzer units is not economically justified and they would be rehabilitated. The project will
also improve NPA's distribution network as well as the subtransmission line to the industrial zone
of the Western Area, which provides electricity to the consumers that are the principal source of
NPA's revenue.
6.02       The proposed rehabilitation is the least-cost option to provide reliable and adequate
supply of electricity in the Western Area through mid-1990s after which additional generation and
transmission/distribution capacity are required to meet the growing demand for electricity. Any
other thermal option would not be less expensive than what is proposed under the project, and
construction of the Bumbuna project will take several years before any hydro electricity could
become available. Indeed, the reduced Bumbuna Scheme is a seasonal hydro power station with a
firm capacity of 24 MW and only a single generating unit. Therefore, adequate thermal capacity
is required to complement Bumbuna's output during the dry season and provide standby
generation when the single hydro unit would be down for maintenance or repair.
6.03       Given the poor management of NPA at present, the project provides a substantial
insitutional strengthening component which is needed to implement the physical rehabilitation of
NPA's facilities, sustain the improvements, and build the managerial capabilities within NPA to
run the utlity effectively. IDA's involvement and assistance through this project is necessary for
the Government and NPA to carry out effectively the required institutional reforms and buildup
the management capabilities that are needed to restore adequate and reliable public supply of
electricity.



- 40 -
B. Economic Rate of Return
6.04       Details of economic analysis is given in Annex 61. In the absence of a long-term
least cost power sector development program, which is to be prepared under the project as part of
the Power Sector Master Plan Study, the economic analysis is carried out on the basis of only the
investment proposed under the project. Included in the economic analysis are the cost of
management contract as well as all the investment required for physical rehabilitation of NPA's
system. The main benefits of the project that have been quantified and captured in the analysis
are: (a) improving supplies to meet the unserved demand for electricity, and (b) reduction in the
system technical losses, and (c) reduction in auto generation. The incremental demand served is
valued at consumers' willingness to pay equal to the existing average tariff which is increased by
a factor of 1.5 for the years when a small amount of thermal generation from Kingtom power
plant will be required only for peak power or to substitute for hydropower from Bumbuna, while
the single unit at Bumbuna is down for maintenance or repair. The saving to the economy in
reducing autogeneration is valued at the differential fuel cost between auto generation and power
generation at Kingtom plant. The reduction in technical losses are reflected in the analysis as
savings in generation costs.
6.05       The proposed project has a relatively good Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR)
of 28 percent. It is based on the projected demand for electricity discussed in Chapter 2,
consumers' willingness to pay equivalent to the average tariff rate valued at the parallel exchange
rate (USC 14.3/Kwh), and fuel costs that correspond to about US$19/barrel for international crude
oil prices in November 1991. The FY98 is taken as the first year when hydro power could
become available from Bumbuna. The sensitivity analysis with respect to various variables
indicates that the IERR is robust and the project is economically viable. A 20 percent increase in
the fuel cost would reduce the IERR to 23 percent. A 10 percent increase in the investment cost
of the project, which already includes on average a 15 percent physical contingency, would
reduce the IERR to 21 percent. If the consumers' willingness to pay for the small amount of
power needed from Kingtom to supplement Bumbuna is reduced to be equal to the average tariff,
then the IERR is reduced to 26 percent. A one-year delay in commissioning of the Bumbuna
project beyond what is assumed in the analysis would increase the IERR to about 37 percent.
C. Rid%
6.06       The major risks to a successful implementation of the project are the Government's
commitment to NPA's autonomy and the management capabilities of NPA itself, which are
required if the project is to restore NPA's power generation and distribution facilities and
establish the basis for NPA to become an autonomous and commercially viable utility. The
NPA's management problem is addressed by involving the private sector in managing the utility
under a performance-based management contract. To ensure adequate commitment on the part of
the Government, in coordination with other donors, a graduated response to the rehabilitation of
the power sector has been adopted whereby each phase of the project preparation has been based
on measures taken by the Government. Although much has been accomplished so far, adequate
Government commitment in the future to NPA's autonomy remains at risk.



- 41 -
VIl.       1          :1EDC  ANID I=MflDTI
7.01            Agreements were reached on the following      4:
(a)   Terms of reference for the following studies: (i) consolidation of energy sector
activities (para 1.05); (ii) preparation of the power sector master plan (para 2.17);
and (iii) environmental impact assessment of the Bumbuna project (para 4.24);
(b)  NPA would annally review with IDA its five-year rolling investment program and
no investment exceeding one million dollars per year other than the agreed
investment program would be carried out unless satisfactory to IDA; and if the
ongoing hydroprojects (particularly Bumbuna) were to be transferred to NPA, IDA
would be consulted and that such transfer would not adversely affect NPA's finances
(para 2.16);
(c)   The supervision of Bumbuna project civil works wil be placed under NPA; and
tochnical studies to connect Bumbuna to NPA. network would be prepared (para
2.18);
(d)  Revisions to the NPA's 1982 Act (Para 3.02);
(e)   The main elements of the management conract to be reflected in the bidding
docments (para 3.06);
(f)   Assurance that price of fuel oil is governed by the pricing formula (para 3.13);
(g) NPA according to agreed targets would improve its consumer billing, reduce
accounts receivable, and reduce non-technical losses (para 3.15);
(1)  NPA wi1l submit to IlDA the FY92 audited annual report by April 1, 1993, provide
IDA with audited financial statements within 6 months of the end of its fiscal year
(para 3.17), anend the values in its insurance policies after revaluation of assets, and
require its insurer to have coverage in freely convertible currencies (para 3.18);
(i)   NPA will set up a project implementation and control unit by October 1, 1992 (para
4.20);
U)   A joint mid-term review of the project would take place in no later than 2 years
from Credit effectiveness (Para 4.21);
(k)  Auditing and reporting requirements for: project accounts, special accounts, and
SOEs (para 4.22);
()   NPA will revalue its fixed assets annually (para 5.02);
(m)  Except for the firs 50 kWh of consumption, residentia tariff would be brought more
in line with the cost of providing the service (para 5.05);
(n)  A set of financial objectives to be achieved by NPA (para 5.10);



- 42 -
(o) NPA would automatically adjust and maintain electricity tariffs at levels required to
meet its financial objectives; and make a semi-annual report on the adequacy of
tariffs (para S.11);
(p)  Increase average tariffs to a level equivalent to USC19.1/kWh by October 1, 1992
and USC22.2/kWh by April 1, 1993 (para 5.12);
(q) Conversion to equity of NPA's import duty obligations to the Government (para
5.13);
7.02       The following would be conditions of Board presentation:
(a)  Settlement of Sierra Leone's arrears with IDA (para 4.05).
7.03       The following would be copnditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a)  Submission of the revision of the NPA Act to the Parliament (para 3.02);
(b)  Implementation of a 45 percent staff reduction plan (para 3.10);
(c)   Submission of FY90-91 audited annual reports (para 3.17);
(d) Signing of the subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and NPA (para
4.05); and
(e) Confirmation of a satisfactory financing plan (para 4.06).
7.04       The following would be oditon of diusement for the new generating unit and
general plant components of the project:
(a)  Hiring of the private firm under the management contract (para 3.06).
RenmendatiQ!I
7.05       Subject to the above agreements and understandings to be reached, the project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$21 million equivalent.
AF41E
March 31, 1992



- 43- A_NNEX 1-
Page I of 5
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
A STUDY TO CONSOLIDATE TEE ENERGY SECTOR ACTIVITIES
IN THE REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
1.   OBJECTIVE:
The Government of the Republic of Sierra Leone is interested
in securing through international competition the services of a
qualified consulting firm for a study to prepare a plan for the
consolidation of the policy making, planning and coordination ac-
tivities in the energy sector of Sierra Leone. The appointment of
the Consultant as well as the supervision and coordination of his
work will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Labor, Energy
and Power.
2e  BACKGROUND:
2.1 Energy Resources
The Republic of Sierra Leone is reasonably well endowed with
energy resources, particularly forestry and hydroelectric power.
About 80% of total primary energy is supplied by domestic biomass
and the remaining 20% by crude oil and its products, of which
around 30% are used in the country's basically thermal-only power
generation system.
The annual supply of fuelwood from the country's forests,
which accounts for about 80% of energy used, is estimated at around
4 million cubic meters; annual sustainable yields of wood are
estimated at between 9 and 15 million cubic meters, but a large
part of this supply is not economically accessible and there are
growing signs of regional shortages near urban areas, the largest
one, Freetown, consuming about 10% of the supply. High forest which
once covered most of Sierra Leone have been reduced to 4% of the
land area through shifting cultivation, commercial logging and
cutting for fuelwood.  Most of the country is now covered with
secondary forests or derived savannah. Reforestation programs have
yet to be implemented in any significant way,
There is an extensive network of rivers which provide a lar4e
hydroelectric power potential estimated at 1,200 MW, which remains
practically untapped. The most promising hydro site is the Bumbuna
Project, on the Seli River, with a potential of 305 MW. The
Government of Sierra Leone has obtained financing from the
Government of Italy for the civil works of a 47 MW scaled-down,
run-of-river version of the project estimated at US$ 150 million,
with an estimated 24 MW of firm capacity, 157 GWh of firm energy
and 209 GWh average energy per year. Financing for the electrome-
chanical works and the transmission line has been secured from the
African Development Bank. Commissioning date is 1997.
As yet no crude oil has been discovered in Sierra Leone; al-



- 44 -
gNNZZAZt
Page 2 of 5
though it is assumed that there is a potential for offshore re-
serves, limited exploration efforts have prevented an evaluation of
this potential.
2.2  Institutional Framework
There are Phout six ministries involved in energy sector
functions in Si, -a Leone with varying degrees of relation to
energy issues and the attendant lack of coordination.
The Ministry of Energy, Labor and Power (MLEP) is directly
responsible for energy sector planning, coordination and supervi-
sion. As such, it also establishes and implements policy in the
power subsector, presently including the direct supervision of the
National Power Authority (NPA), the parastatal power utility.
The importation, refining and distribution of petroleum
products is regulated by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and State
Enterprises (MTISE), while exploration activities for petroleum and
lignite are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Mines (MOM).
The management and developing of forestry and other woodfuel
resources is under the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources
and Forestry (MANRF), while the priorities in national development
plans are established by the Ministry of Finance, Development and
Economic Planning, with an important influence on hydro development
and other power system additions since these projects absorb
sizable economic resources.
There is a limited amount of coordination between the various
ministries and the Ministry of Labor, Energy and Power does not
have the political mandate to carry out this function properly.
In the private and parastatal sectors the main energy trading
entities are the oil companies, NPA (the state-owned power utility)
and the Sierra Leone Petroleum Refining Company, the parastatal in
charge of operating the refinery. Fuelwood cutting and commercial-
ization activities are almost completely in the hands of small
private operators.
2.3 Problems with existing institutional framework
Although the Ministry of Labor, Energy and Power is nominally
responsible for coordinating all energy activities in the country,
it is mainly qQncerned with electrical power and water distribu-
tion.
There are many problems arising as a result of the institu-
tional framework; inter alia:



- 45 -
hNNIX 1-1
Page 3 of S
i)     Lack of a defined national energy policy or strategy.
ii)     Absence of national energy planning.
iii)     Absence of systematic information on and evaluation of
the most important energy problems in the country (the
supply and demand situation, etc.)
iv)     Absence of a national and systematic pricing policy in
the energy sector.
v)     Diffused and dispersed responsibilities of all aspects
of energy with its concomitant weak linkages and poor
coordination between ministries involved in energy
functions, and between the ministries and other organi-
zations carrying out energy activities.
To overcome the existing sectoral and institutional problems
it is proposed that the Ministry charged with the responsibility
for enerqy matters should given the mandate and support necessary
to assume the coordination and planning of all activities in the
energy sector in Sierra Leone. In order to effectively perform this
role, the Ministry should: i) set up a reliable data base on supply
and demand of energy; ii) evaluate important national energy
problems; iii) prepare the national energy plans; iv) develop
policies and strategies for the energy sector v) monitor the
performance of public enterprises in the sector, etc.
3.   SCOPE OF WORK
The Consultant's main responsibility is to prepare a plan for
consolidating policy making, planning and coordination of all
energy activities in Sierra Leone. The Consultant's scope of work
shall thus include, but will not necessarily be limited to, the
following activities:
i)     Analyze in detail the present institutional framework
within the energy sector, determining existing functions
and responsibilities of, and relationships and coordina-
tion, both formal and informal, between the several agen-
cies involved, or the lack thereof.
ii)     Propose the required legal and institutional reforms at
the national level necessary to provide the Ministry
charged with the responsibility for energy matters with
the legal, political and administrative mandate and
support to assume the responsibilities of policy making,
planning and coordination of energy activities in Sierra
Leone. The day-to-day operation of the institutions of
the sector shall not be the responsibility of the
Ministry. The operating companies of the sector shall



- 46 -
ANMEX 1-1
Page 4 of 5
have the degree of autonomy required by good commercial
practice.
iii)     Propose the structural and organizational changes, and
staff training required at the Ministry of Energy and
Power for the fulfillment of its new broad responsibil-
ities.
4.   DURATZON OF STUDY
It is estimated that a total of ten man-months of Consultant's
work will be required for the preparation of the study.
s.   EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS
The evaluation of the proposals will maintain quality as the
paramount requirement of the consulting services. This, in turn
will be based on the evaluation of the firm's experience in the
field of the assignment, the adequacy of the proposal in responding
to the terms of reference and the qualifications and competence of
the personnel proposed for the assignment.
The following basic factors will be taken into consideration:
1)   The experience of the firm in tasks of this nature,
particularly that experience gained in developing
countries under conditions similar to those of Sierra
Leone. References to similar jobs performed must be
provided.
2)   The education, field of expertise and experience of the
experts proposed for the study. Experience, in particu-
lar, should be taken to mean experience in similar
studies in developing countries. The Curriculum Vitae of
each of the experts proposed for the study must be
provided.
3)   The commitment of the prospective Consultant to support
the experts assigned to the study. The Government of
Sierra Leone reserves the right to reject the replacement
of any expert at any time if it deems that the quality of
the replacement is not consistent with the original
proposal or the quality of the proposed study.
6.   COORDINATION RBQUIREMNTS
The Consultant shall be responsible for coordinating through
the Ministry of Labor, Energy and Power with all the Governmental
and Non-Governmental entities of Sierra Leone, as required, for the
preparation of the study in accordance with the terms of reference.



- 47 -
hNNEX -I
Page S of S
7.   REPORTING REQUIREMEN8T
The Consultant must submit monthly progress reports to
the Ministry charged with the responsibility for enargy matters,
indicating not only the work performed but also discussing the
major issues faced during the month. Additionally, at the comple-
tion of the study the Consultant shall prepare a draft final
report, which shall be reviewed by the Ministry and the Interna-
tional Development Association (IDA); based on the comments re-
ceived from the NEP and from IDA, the Consultant shall prepare the
final report, to be submitted to the Government in fifteen copies.



- 48 -                              ANNEX 1*
RAM)ER SE>:lYR RUEHANEWERrAIMU   ROE
PEMNOLEXUM PRODUCIMS CONSIM5 >IMON
(in mndeg tons)
MOTOR SPIRIT       KERO/JET    DIESEL    FUEL OIL          TOTAL
1986                33,649            19,166      75,169       24,500       152,484
1987                28,042            23,087      57,427       24,000       132,538
1988                42,081            27,556      90,163       23,000       182,800
1989                46,076            39,804      84,859       18,799       189,538
1990                39,288            25,022      82,085       17,000       163,395
Source:    Actual sales data from SLPRC and Oil Marketing Companies (Shell, NP and Mobil).



- 49 -                           ANNEX 211
Page 1 of 2
SIERRALEN
POWERI RELARTATION PROJECT
THE EMERGENCY    B ITATION PROGRAM
1.           During May and June of 1991, NPA's power generation was very low and in
July it was zero (see attached monthly production on chart). Ihe only exception was a small
amount gmnerated with diesel oil at the Falconbridge power station and used monthly by the
State House and other Government customers. NPA's problems were caused at least partly
by the poor quality of fuel oil that is received from NP and which had a water content that in
one sample tested in Europe reached 60 percent. This damaged the injection pumps of the
KHD units and brought the Kingtom power station to a standstill, since the Sulzer #4 unit had
been take out of service in March due to major problems in its exhaust system. Since then,
NPA has proceeded to overhaul KHD unit #1, which was put back in service in August. Unit
#3 was also put back in service, although at reduced capacity of 1.5 MW. Generation during
August, September, and October was only 3.2 Gwh. To increase production, NPA also
proceeded to overhaul KHD unit #4, which was expected back in line by end of November.
2.           The cost of equipment and spare parts needed for the emergency program is
estimated at US$2.15 million, which would be financed with US$0.9 million grant from the
Government of Germany, US$0.1 million from IDA under the PPF, US$0.5 million to be
collected from the private sector by NPA as an advance payment for energy to be supplied
later, and the difference, US$0.65 by the Government. As part of the emergency program,
the EC would provide a grant to finance technical assistance estimated at 750,000 ECU which
includes four expatriates for a period of 10 months in line positions (Technical Director,
Financial Director, Billing and Commercial Service Manager and Distribution Manager).
This would be in addition to the GTZ experts who presently work at the Kingtom power
station. The EC grant would also finance computer hardware and software to automate the
billing system. The experts would assist NPA during calendar year 1992. At the end of their
mission, the management contract, under the proposed rehabilitation project, would take
effect.
3.           The study prepared in connection with the emergency program also proposes a
series of measures to be taken by the Government and NPA as conditions for its financing.
Prominent among these is the Government's contribution to the financing of the proje- the
relocation of the offices of the Ministry of Energy and Power (in order to enhance the
prospects for autonomy of NPA) and a 45 percent reduction in NPA's staff requiring about 60
million Leones for severance pay to be provided by the Government. The Government has
accepted the proposed conditionality, as evidenced in a letter sent by the second Vice
President to the EC Delegate and the German Ambassador in Freetown. NPA has indicated
that a major reduction in its staff is required for a successful implementation of the emergency
program, and that it is ready to immediately put a 45 percent staff reduction into effect upon
availability of funds from the Government needed fr the severance pay.



SIERRA LEONE
POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
KINGTOM POWER STATION MONTHLY GENERATION (GWH)
GWh
ONat Generation~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AMJJASONDJFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJJASO
I   ~1989               1990                1991
ElNot Generation



- 51 -                                ANNEX 2-2
IERRALEN
POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROVINCIAL SYSTEMS INSTALLED CAPACITY
Diesel Plant               Installation         No. of            Installed
Locations                    Date               Units           Capacity kW
1. Port Loko               1961/1976/1986         3                  890
2. Lungi                   1980                    3                1,500
3. Kambia                  1980/1982               3                 500
4. Rokupr                  1980                    1                 100
5. Makeni                  1980/1985               2                1,000
6. Kabala                  1977/1980               2                 250
7. Bo                      1987                    3               5,280
8. Njala                   1970/1971               2                 872
9. Moyamba                 1958/1980               3                 200
10. Pujehun                1980                    1                  50
11. Bonthe                 1975/1980              2                  160
12. Kenema                 1972                    1               1,000
13. Koidu                  1972J1978/1982         3                2,500
14. Kailahun               1980                    1                 100
15. Daru                   1984                    1                  9
TOTAL                                          30               14,494
Hydro Plant Location
Goina                   1986                    4               4,000
Note: All diesel plants use diesel oil except Bo, which is run on fuel oil.



SIERRA LEONE - POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
WESTERN AREA SYSTEM ENERGY AND POWER BALANCE
FY 1991  FY 1992 FY 1993 FY 1994 FY 1995 FY 1996 FY 1997 FY 1998 FY 1999 FY 2000
Actual Estimated  P-ojwfion-                                -       -
Demand for Energy (GWh)       122.7    126.7   131.7   137.4   143.6   150.2   158.9   167.4   177.8    187.8
Demand Growth Rate (%)                   3.3      3.9    4.3     4.5      4.6     5.8     5.4     6.2      5.6
Technical Losses (%)           15.0      15.0    15.0   13.0    10.0    10.0   10.0    10.0    10.0       10.0
Generation Required (GWh) al   144.4    149.1   154.9   157.9   159.5   166.9   176.5   186.0   197.6    208.6
Generation Available (GWh) aJ  52.7      20.7    77.3   117.2   159.5   166.9   176.5   186.0   197.6    208.6
Generation Deficiency (GWh)    91.7    128.4    77.6   40.7       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Non-technical Losses (9)        20.0     20.0    19.0    18.0    17.0    16.0    15.0    15.0    15.0     15.0
Sales (GWh)                    34.2      13.5    51.0   80.8   116.4   123.5   132.4   139.5   148.2    156.4
Maximum Demand (MW)            31.9     32.9    33.9    34.5    34.8    36.4    38.5   40.5    43.1    45.5
Available Capacity (MW)        16.5      14.5    19.5   28.0    35.5    40.5    52.5    52.5    52.5      62.5
Firm Capacity (MW)              7.5       1.5    13.5   16.5   27.0    32.0    28.5    28.5    28.5       38.5
Max Demand - Firm Capacity (MW)   24.4  31.4    20.4    18.0      7.8     4.4    10.0    12.0    14.6      7.0
al Net Generation defined as Gross Generation - Station Use
SLANX1_5.WK1



SIERRA LEONE - POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
WESTERN AREA SYSTEM LOAD DISPATCH AND FUEL CONSUMPTION
FY1991  FY1992 FY1993 FY1994 FY1995 FY1996 FY1997 Ff1998 FY1999 FY2000
Actual Estimated                              Pojecton
Load Dispach (GWH):
Sulzer #4 (8.5MW)            27.0      0.4    19.7   30.3    59.6   59.6    3.0        3.0    3.0      4.0
Sulzer #5 (8.5MW)             0.0      0.0    0.0    29.9    59.6   59.6    3.0        3.0    3.0      4.0
New MSD #1 (5 MW)             0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    35.0   35.0    2.0      2.0    3.0       3.0
New MSD #2 (5 MW)             0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    17.5    2.3      2.3    3.5       3.0
KHD Units (12MW) a/          28.5     20.5   61.8    63.2    13.3    3.5    0.0        0.0    0.0      0.0
Falconbridge (1.5 MW)         0.4      1.1    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.1      0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0
Bumbuna (47 MW)                                                              175.0   185.0   195.0   200.0
Other New Generation (10MVf)                                                                           5.0
Tots] Gross Generation (GW;?h)  56.0    22.0   81.5   123.4   167.5   175.2  185.3   195.3   207.5    219.0
Statlon Use (%)                 6.3      6.3    5.5    5.3    5.0    5.0    5.0          5.0     5.0      5.0
Net Generation Available (GWh)  52.7    20.7   77.3   117.2   159.5   166.9  176.5   186.0   197.6   208.6
Fuel Consumotton _Tons):
Fuel Oil                  14118.1   5344.6 20775.2 30625.2 37565.2 38834.3  2268.3  2268.3  2743.5  4162.0
Diesel Oil                 1169.1    587.4  2016.8  2557.2  2618.5  2776.4   173.7   173.7  226.5   358.0
Lube Oil                    226.8     77.0   308.0   417.5   292.5   303.9    19.0    19.0    24.7    39.0
a/ KHD units are retired at the end of 1996, when they will have reached the end of their useful life.
SLANX1_5.WK1



SIERRA LBONE POWER SFCIOR REHABIITATION PROJECT
NPA NVESTMEN PROGRAM
(m _Iams of US$)
FICALYEAR92            FSCALYEAR 93          FSCALY YAR94         FCALYEAR95           FISALEAR 96            FIISCALYEIAR97          GRANDT1UrAL
PC    EC  TlUAL        FC   LC  TOTAL    PC    iC  TOTAL    EC   LC  TOTAL    PC    LC   TOrAL                 PC  LC TOTAL         FC     LC  TOrAL
GENERATION             2,450   250   2,700    3,955 1,660   SAI,S  16,480 7,170  23,650   6.675 3,240   9,95   1,775    95   2,670   1,200 300  1,500    32,535  13,515  46,050
SUWIRANS. REHAB           SO    t0      60      445  120    565   30   465   2,27    3,    470   2,4             490   135    605      200  20    ZS        4,0  1,200  6,060
DETRM. REBAR            0oo    20    120        440  135    S75   1,800  s20  2            ,60  S25   2,385      485   135    620      S00  so    5So       5,185  1,315   6,579
GENERIAL PLA              10     0      10       18S   65    250   1,120  390   1,510      S8S  200    735       250     0    250      250   0    250       2,400   655   3,055
MlANAGEMfIRA1N             0     0       0      415   50    465   1,49S  175   1,00   1,74S  200   1,945   1,665   195   10            330  30    360    56        650   6,300
STUDIES                    0     0       0       125   10    135      660   70    730      360   40    400        90    10    1oo       901 o    1OD        1,32     140   1,465
ENGNPEERICONSUL           SO    10      60      940   5S    995   1,495   S0   1,57S   3,095   5S   1,150        355    30    385      200  20    220       4,13S   250  435
RUtMDUNA SUPERV           0      0       0        0    0       0      295   IS    310      415   15    430       320    15    335      320  15    335       1,30    60   1,410
DIMRID.EXP                 0     0       0        0    0       0        0    0       0     180o0         130     300    30    330      50 so    550           900    90    990
BUMBNA-ADB FORT        1,190     0   1,190    3,590    0   3,9    6,460    0   6,460  28,150    0  28,150   5,760  r,  5,7W)             0   0       0    45,150      0  45,50
TMAL             3,150   290   4,140   10,095 2,095  12,190  31,610 S,OS5  40,49S  42,8SS 4,7SS  47,610  11,490  1,425  12,91S   3,590 49S   4,     10,490  17,4  121.,0
x'



-    -                ANNEX 2-6
Page 1 of 9
SIERRA LBONE NaTIONAL POWER AUTHORXTY
TERMS O REXERENCE FOR A MASTER PLAN STUDY
1. Introdugtion:
The Government of Sierra Leone, through NPA has prepared a
Power Sector Rehabilitation Project with the assistance of the
International Development Association (IDA), the European Invest-
ment Bank (EIB), the European Community (EC), the Gesellschaft Fuer
Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) of the Federal Republic of Germany.
The Project will assist NPA to carry out overdue maintenance
and rehabilitation of its Western Area generation, subtransmission
and distribution facilities and to assist in the strengthening of
NPA to provide the basis for an autonomous, commercially viable and
efficient entity.
The three major components of the project are: i) rehabili-
tation and maintenance of generation facilities, and replacement of
three old units with two new ones; ii) rehabilitation and im-
provements in the subtransmission and distribution network; and
iii) technical assistance, training and institutional strengthen-
ing of the power system of Sierra Leone.
2.   Objectives:
Qualified international consulting firms are hereby invited to
submit proposals for the preparation of a twenty-year Power Sector
Master Development Plan for the generation, transmission and
distribution expansion of NPA.
The Consultant is expected to prepare prefeasibility level cost
estimates for the power stations. Candidate plants shall be chosen
carefully to suit the present and forecast requirements. For the
transmission, and as required for the subtransmission systems,
additions at costs per km suitable for Sierra Leone may be used. For
substations, costs per bay may also be used. For distribution, if
a new load center is to be connected to the main grid, costs per
consumer approach would be suitable. All these figures must be based
on the least cost predesign.
Since the construction of the Bumbuna hydroelectric project has
already started, it shall be taken as a fixed project in a base case,
the Consultant being responsible for estimating its commissioning
date. Additionally, as a sensitivity case, an analysis will be
performed for which Bumbuna is not a fixed project but a candidate
among many; in this case, the Consultant shall freely choose all future
projects on the basis of their merits, in order to achieve the least
cost solution.



- 56 -                      ANNEX 2-6
Page 2 of 9
3.   Requlations:
The services to be provided under these terms of reference will
be retained through international competition regulated by procedures
established by World Bank guidelines.
4.   Institutional Baokaround:
4.1 General:
The public sector power supply system in Sierra Leone is of
extremely modest capacity. The public supply system is managed by
the National Power Authority (NPA), a commercial parastatal with a
national monopoly on electricity generation, transmission and
distribution. However, because of deteriorating supplies, all classes
of customers, including mining, industrial and commercial as well
as residential consumers have purchased generating sets and are
operating them on a regular basis. These private sets range in size
from a few kilowatts for private dwellings to hundreds of kilowatts
installed in commercial and industrial establishments.
The public utility system consists of the Western Area Grid
centered on the capital, Freetown, and fourteen isolated Provincial
systems in the rest of the country. About 90% of the electricity
supplied by the whole system is consumed in the four main cities:
Freetown (82%), Kenema (3%), Bo (3%) and Makeni (2%). Two thirds of
the residential consumers are serv 1 by the Western Area Grid and
the rest are connected to the Provincial systems.
To supply around 25,000 consumers in the Western Area and
approximately 10,000 consumers in the isolated provincial systems,
NPA is expected to generate 69.4 GWh during fiscal year 1990, with
total system losses of 35% for total sales estimated at 45.1 GWh.
The breakdown of sales by consumer category is approximately 46%
residential, 30% large commercial/industrial, 22% small commer-
cial/industrial, and 2% others.
Electricity sales increased steadily during the decade preceding
1982 before power supplies started to decline because of equipment
failures and fuel shortages; in the period PY71 to FY82 sales grew
by 4.6% per year, but from FY82 to FY90 power generation, and
subsequently sales, declined sharply at about 9% per year. As a result
of this, generation and sales in FY90 are below their FY71 levels.
This pattern of electricity generation and sales indicates that
power consumption in sierra Leone is now characterized by a highly
suppressed demand. Unreliable and insufficient electricity supply
have seriously inconvenienced consumers and adversely affected economic
activity. In FY90 NPA's generation was only about 49% of what was
needed to meet the demand in the Western Area alone, and that the
capacity shortage was in the order of 54 NW. In addition, the power
system was deteriorating so rapidly that prompt action was required
to prevent a total system collapse. For FY 1991 the firm capacity



- 57 -                     ANX 2-6
page 3 of 9
in the Western System was down to 6.5 NW, and this was reduced to
virtually zero in the first quarter of 1992, but NPA was later able
to partially utilize some of the KHD units.
4.2 The -eneration/Distributioa System:
The total generating capacity installed in Sierra Leone is
estimated at 130 MW, of which 126 MW are diesel powered plants and
4 MW are hydroelectric (one run-of-river plant in the Goma Valley).
Of the total installed diesel capacity the National Power Authority
operates 56.2 MW in the Western Area Grid and 14.5 NW in the Provincial
systems, while private captive generation capacity is estimated at
30 MW.
NPA' s two diesel generating plants serving the Western Area Grid
have a total installed capacity of 56.2 NW derated to 27.3 MW. The
largest one is the 'ingtom Plant with three 6.6 MAN units installed
in 1964-1971 (at present derated to 0.0 MW), two 9.2 MW Sulzer marine
low-speed units installed in 1978-1980 (limited to 7.5 MW), and four
new high-speed KHD units of 3 MW each installed in 1986 (derated to
2.5 MW) now used to supply base load. There are five units installed
at the smaller plant at Falconbridge: two 1.5 NW English Electric
units now out of service and three Mirrless National of one MW each
(derated to only 750 kW each) used only as start-up for the Kingtom
station.
The poor condition of the Kingtom station is the result of poor
maintenance, shortage of spare parts due to difficulty in obtaining
foreign exchange, and inadequacy of technical and managerial skills
of the NPA staff . In addition, the KHD units, with high speed engines,
are being ruined rapidly by using them for base-load generation.
The distribution system, on the other hand, experiences many
problems related to switchgear deterioration and to excessive energy
and power losses and extremely poor voltage regulation.
The seven primary 11 kV indoor substations are fitted with
obsolete switchgear; existing oil circuit breakers have been placed
under great strains because of regular load shedding forced by
insufficient generation capacity, leading to contact erosion and
circuit breakers malfunctioning.
The mostly underground primary distribution system is char-
acterized by direct-burial cable feeders badly deteriorated feeding
large-size distribution transformers from which long secondary lines
radiate leading to poor voltage regulation and high energy losses.
The Power Sector Rehabilitation Project includes components for
the rehabilitaticn of the generation units and the improvement of
the distribution network, such as the replacement of damaged circuit
breakers, the installation of capacitors, the extension of 40 km of
11 kV lines, the reconductoring of low voltage lines, etc.



- 58 -
AEX 2-6
Page 4 of 9
4.3  Administrative and Commecial Activitis:
NPA is considerably over-staffed. With around 1473 employees
in FY 1990 and 35,000 customers this represents a very low ratio of
23 customers per employee; however NPA has not been able to achieve
an appropriate skill mix in its work force: the Authority is over-
staffed at the unskilled labor levels while suffering from a shortage
of technically and administratively skilled personnel. Although
salaries levels were increased substantially in October 1991, NPA's
ability to recruit qualified staff continues to be constrained by
low wages. Staffing problems are further compounded by weak supervision
and imposition of civil service personnel policies which make it
extremely difficult to transfer, promote and/or discipline employees.
Reducing the number of employees has proved difficult in the past
as most employees are union members.
The metering, billing and collection system is riddled with
defficiencies: inappropriate meter specifications and calibration,
inadequate service drops, widespread energy theft, cumbersome and
slow billing process, and slow collection particularly from the
Government and Government agencies which account for the bulk of NPA's
sales.
NPA has been unable to prepare timely accounts, mainly due to
shortages of qualified staff, but at the same time NPA's accounting
systems and procedures need to be modernized and fully coordinated:
stores accounting, costing, budgeting and statistical information
and management information systems, all reauire improvements. There
is urgent need to implement improvement and training to include
enhancement to budget control, internal control procedures for store
accounting, fuel management, bills and revenues collection, accounts
receivable, creditors accounting, payroll, fixed assets accounting,
etc.
In summary, the public power supply system is in poor physical,
...nancial and administrative conditions. The Power Sector Rehabilita-
tion Project addresses these issues and attempts to restore NPA to
the status of a well-run commercial utility.
4.4  8ystem ExpRasion:
NPA does not at present have a formal system expansion plan.
The next step in power generation is the reconditioning of existing
plant and the addition of two new 5-MW thermal units, under the Power
Sector Rehabilitation Project.
The next s'tep in generaticn capacity would consist of the addition
of the Bumbuna hydro project.
In the early 1980's the Bumbuna hydro scheme was included as
the next project in Sierra Leone's generation development. The scheme,
on the Seli River, was identified in 1971 during a survey of the
country's hydro potentia... In 1980 a feasibility study was completed
and in 1982, after further work, bidding documents had been prepared



- 59 -
ANiLX Z-6
Page 5 of 9
for the development of a staged 70 KW hydro project as the next
addition to Sierra Leone's power generating capacity. Meanwhile, the
Government of Sierra Leone obtained a loan from the Italian Government
for the construction camps and river diversion works, which were
completed in 1984.
In 1983, the World Bank prepared a report which concluded that
under the economic conditions in Sierra Leone at the time, further
major work on the Bumbuna project should be deferred until such
conditions improved, particularly balance of payments and debt
servicing. Simultaneously, NPA consultants together with Bank staff,
examined further staging of the Bumbuna scheme to benefit from the
relatively large investments already made by the Government in the
Bumbuna project, while maintaining its economic merits under dropping
oil prices. Certain components of the project, such as transmission
circuits, were deferred and the size of the project was reduced throgh
design modifications but without jeopardizing the work already done
or further stages in the Seli River power development as originally
designed. The reduced Bumbuna with 47 MW of installed capacity costs
one-third less than the original scheme, and would require an
investment of about US$ 150 million in addition to what has already
been invested.
The Project is located in the Northeastern region of Sierra Leone
at a distance of some 200 km from the capital of Freetown. The Bumbuna
dam is located 4 km from the village of Bumbuna, 2.5 km upstream of
the natural Bumbuna Falls. It consists of a run-of-river plant with
a rock-fill 400 m dam 87 m high at 244.00 m a.s.l., and 4 m wide at
the crest.
It consists basically of a run-of-river plant. The outdoor power
house will be located at the toe of the dam embankment and will be
furnished with a single 47 MW unit. Firm capacity is estimated at
24 MW, firm energy 157 GWh and average energy 290 GWh per year. Power
will be transmitted over a 199 km long single circuit 161 kV line
between Bumbuna and Freetown, in the Western Region of Sierra Leone.
The Consultant shall be responsible for obtaining and verifying the
information concerning the Bumbuna Project.
The Government of Sierra Leone has decided to implement this
scaled-down version of the Sumbuna Falls Hydroelectric Project, which
is an intermediate development stage of the original project (Stage
I). During 1988 and 1989 the Government negotiated and obtained
financing for the Bumbuna civil works from the Government of Italy.
The Italian contractors have been working at the site since early
1990. Subsequently, financing for the rest of the reduced Bumbuna
(i.e., electromechanical equipment, transmission line and substations)
was completed by the Government with a loan from the African
Development Bank (AfDB) which was approved in December of 1990.
Since the power sector lacks a comprehensive development plan,
the Government has agreed with IDA that a study be financed to prepare



- 60 -
FMMRL 
Page 6 of 9
a master plan for development of the sector which would include the
analysis of the Bumbuna hydro scheme.
5.   sco¢e of Services
S.1 General
The scope of services shall include at least the items listed
under "Scope of Services"; however, all those matters typically
included in studies of this kind, but not listed here, must be included
by the Consultant. The scope is to be taken as indicative rather than
exhaustive.
5.2  Load Forecast
The Consultant will prepare a load forecast for Sierra Leone
for the next twenty years, distinguishing between: a) the Western
Area (Freetown network); b) the Provincial Systems; and c) the needs
of electricity self-producers (industrial, tertiary, mines).
The forecast will be prepared by using two different methods:
a macroeconomic approach, and an extrapolation of the consumption
of different classes of consumers. The macroeconomic method shall
look for a correlation of electricity consumption with GNP growth,
as well as with income levels, alternative fuel prices, cost of
electrical appliances, etc. The extrapolation method must use the
historical consumption of the different classes of consumers and
extrapolate it using reasonable assumptions; in this analysis, however,
care must be exercised to properly reflect the effect of the
constraints that have historically plagued the power supply in Sierra
Leone. An analytical approach by sector will be used to evaluate the
potential electricitv demand which would be present if reliable
electricity were available at all times.
On the basis of this work, the Consultant will develop the most
probable scenario as the base case, and two other projections, an
optimistic and a pessimistic one. Load projections for centers other
than those in the interconnected Western Region shall be prepared
for loads of 400 kW minimum or that are, or will be, located close
to the interconnected system.
5.3 Generation exnansion
5.3.1 General
On the basis of the load forecast, the Consultant will
prepare a least-cost generation system expansion program. Two options
for Bumbuna hydro will be analyzed: one considering Bumbuna as a fixed,
given project; and another with Bumbuna as one of many candidate
projects. It is expected that Bumbuna will produce excess energy during
the wet season; the Consultant, therefore, shall study methods for
using this excess and evaluate the possible formulas which could be



- 61 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 7 of 9
developed. In addition, the expansion program must be prepared for
the base case scenario, as well as for the optimistic and the
pessimistic cases.
The analysis must be performed using discounted cash flow methods
and shall be free of price distortions, that is, using economic or
border prices The comparison shall be made based on the present worth
of investment, unserved energy and operation and maintenance costs
using a 12% rate of return. Proper care shall be take of the terminal
conditions to make all alternatives comparable. Sensitivity analyses
must be carried out with respect to the main parameters, e.g, rate
of discount, fuel prices, investment costs and commissioning date.
The alternatives shall be compared using properly justified values
of unserved energy. They should not be based on arbitrarily assumed
values of LOLP or similar criteria.
The candidate plants must correctly reflect experience in
developing countries regarding availability, maintenance costs,
efficiency, derating, etc. Due consideration is to be given to
environmental protection including in the cost of candidate plants
the costs associated with environmental protection measures as
required.
In preparing the expansion program, the Consultant should take
into consideration the existing generation capacity in the private
sector which could become cold reserve after the rehabilitation project
is completed; while this reserve is expected to decrease with time,
it will affect the cost of unserved energy, specially during the first
years of the study. If justified, this capacity could be tapped
through interruptible type tariffs.
5. 3.2 Studies Relating to operation of the Dumbuna _y4ro Proisot
As part of his preparation of the Master Plan, the Consultant
will carry out several studies related to the future operation of
the Bumbuna Project. These studies will analyze:
1)     System load flow and reactive power compensation (at both
maximum and minimum load);
2)     Power system operating policy (monthly power and energy
dispatch),  including scheduling of maintenance.   The
variable hydrology at the Bumbuna site must be taken into
consideration and power and energy dispatch must be prepared
on a monthly basis for the first five years of operation
of Bumbuna.
3)     Measures to be taken in the event of unit or transmission
line trip-out; procedures and equipment for load shedding
(viz., load-shedding relays) and for restoring normal system
conditions;



- 62 -
mNNX 2-1
Page 8 of 9
4)     Maximum and minimum unit loading policy to prevent cavitation
and power oscillations, to preserve system or unit
stability, etc.;
5)     Policy and procedures for system frequency regulation;
6)     Load dispatching procedures and winimal facilities (radio,
power line carrier, microwave, telephone, etc.);
7)     System protection requirements and coordination at the
transmission, substation and distribution levels;
8)     System performance under disturbances; operational procedures
and/or measures to prevent system collapse or to restore
system after major collapse.
5.4 Transmission expansion
The plan for this area will cover two possibilities: the
first one is the transmission expansion needed to supply the areas
already served; the second one involves expansion of the transmission
system to supply new areas. The Consultant must show that the proposed
expansion is optimal considering all factors such as investments,
operation and maintenance costs, energy and power losses, unserved
energy, and timing. The only exception to this would be the case of
lines required to connect a new power station to the system. The
analysis for plan optimization must be performed from the point of
view of the country, not from the point of view of the utility, using
the same approach as in the case of generation expansion. In the case
of new loads to be connected to the system in addition to the costs
for the transmission plan, the Consultant must include all the
necessary subtransmission and distribution works needed to supply
them. loads.
5.5 Fiiangial imnact of proeosed jxpangion plan
The consultant will develop and recommend on a tariff structure
and tariff levels which satisfy both economic and financial criteria
for the efficient supply and consumption of electricity, taking into
account the possible need to provid6 for some lifeline tariff to
residential consumers.
The main economic criteria are that the overall tariff should
reflect the long run marginal cost of supply (LRMC), and the tariff
structure should reflect the incremental costs and risks which each
category of consumer imposes on the system. The consultant should
recommend a classification of consumers which has only that number
of classes necessary to reflect in tariffs any substantial diferences
of cost of service and risk betwen them.



- 63 -
AMN 2-C
Page 9 of 9
The tariff structure should also include, as appropriate,
incentives for economic demand-side management, efficiency improvements
and differentiated time of use, be it seasonal or otherwise.
The main financial criteria which must be satisfied are those
included in covenants or loan agreements, such as ratios for internal
cash generation, self-financing, debt:equity, debt service and rate
of return.
In developing these tariffs, the consultant should propose
acceptable levels of losses which the tariff should accommodate, and,
as necessary, recommend an achievable rate of phase-down to these
levels which should be reflected in the tariff year by year.
5.6 Estimated mannover requirements
It is estimated that a total of forty-six man-months of
consultant services will be required to prepare the Master Plan Study.



- 64 -                      ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 5
Sierra Leone Power Sector Rehabilitation Project
Amendments to the NPA Act of 1982
1.0 Responsibilities and Authority of the General
Manager
Section   11.   paragraph  (2).,  pertaining   to   the
responsibilities and authority of the General Manager shall be
amended to conform to the following provisions:
i)  The  General  Manager  shall  be  the  chief  executive
officer  of  the  Authority  and  in  that  capacity
shall  be  responsible  for  the  execution  of  the
policy of the Authority and the transactions of
its day to day business conducive to the efficient
fulfillment of the objectives of NPA.
ii)  The General Manager shall be the Legal Representative of
the National Power Authority and in such capacity, and on
the authorization of the Board of Directors of NPA, shall
sign all legally binding documents on behalf of NPA.
iii) The Board of Directors shall be empowered to make, and be
responsible for, all appointments, transfers, promotions,
leave, sanctions and dismissal of the General Manager,
the Deputy General Manager and the persons who perform
the  functions   of  Technical  Director,   Financial
Controller, Internal Auditor and Company Secretary.
Except for the position of General Manager, these
appointments will be made based on the recommendation of
the General Manager. For the rest of the NPA staff the
General Manager shall be empowered to make, and be
responsible for, all appointments, transfers, promotions,
leave, sanctions and dismissal.
iv)  It is the responsibility of the General Manager to
convene the Board of Directors at least quarterly,
to prepare the agenda for such meetings and to
submit for the approval of the Board of Directors
the Annual Budget of NPA, proposals for tariff
increases,    financial   statements   and   financial
plans, investment plans and borrowings exceeding
the constant terms equivalent of USS 50,000 (FIFTY
THOUSAND  U.S.  DOLLARS),  and  the  awarding  of  con-
tracts or bids exceeding the constant terms equivalent of
Us$ 100, 000 (ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND U.S. DOLLARS).



- 65 -                      ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 5
v)   The  General Manager  shall submit to  the Board of
Directors quarterly reports and annual reports on the
operational and financial performance of NPA. The audited
Financial Statements shall be submitted to the Board of
Directors not later than four months after the end of
NPA's fiscal year.
vi)  The General Manager shall have the authority to raise
loans for the Authority up to a maximum equivalent to
US$ 50,000 (FIFTY THOUSAND U.S. DOLLARS) and to call bids
and award contracts up to an amount equ-valent to US$
.100,000 (ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND U.S. DOLLARS).
vii) The General Manager shall take all the necessary steps,
including the call for public bids, to implement the
investment program approved by the Board of Directors.
viii) In the event that it is established that the General
Manager has exceeded the limits of Management authority
or has acted irresponsibly in contravention of the
provisions of the Act or the Laws of Sierra Leone, or has
willingly allowed any member of the staff to act in the
manner described above, the General Manager shall be
liable to summary dismissal by the Board of Directors,
notwithstanding and in addition to other sanctions estab-
lished by the Law of Sierra Leone.
2.0  Responsibilities of the Internal Auditor
i)   A paragraph is to be added to Sec. 27 of the Act:
"127 (6). The Internal Auditor shall be
appointed by and be responsible to the Board
of Directors. He will carry out his duties
with the administrative support of the General
Manager. He will attend the meetings of the
Board of Directors with no right to vote, and
will be responsible for monitoring the compli-
ance of Management with the policy and direc-
tives of the Board of Directors to ascertain
that NPA is run efficiently and in accordance
with sound managerial and financial practices.
The Internal Auditor will not participate in
the day to day running of NPAK, but shall bring
anomalies to the attention of the General
Manager and, w4n appropriate, directly to the
Board of Directirs'.
3.0 The Board of Directors



66 -                      ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 5
Section 5.(1) of the NPA Act shall be amended to
read as follows:
"5. (1) The Board of Directors shall consist of
(a) Seven voting members to be appointed as follows:
(i}  The Chairman, who will be appointed by the President
of the Republic upon nomination by the Minister
charged with the responsibility for matters
relating to energy and power.
(ii)  The Financial secretary and the Permanent Secretary
of the Ministry charged with the responsibility for
matters relating to energy and power, who shall,
ex-officio, be members   of the Board.
(iii) Four other members, who shall be appointed by the
President upon the nomination by professional
associations such as the Chamber of Commerce,
Industry    and   Agriculture,    manufacturers',
engineers' and bankers' associations. These four
members shall be honorable citizens of Sierra Leone
who have given distinguished services in the fields
of engineering, finance, industry and commerce.
Transitory  arranaem_nt:         on  the  initial
appointment, two of the four members referred to in
Art. 5s.1 (iii) above will be appointed for a term
of two years and the other two for a term of four
years. Subsequent appointments will be for a term
of four years.
(b)  The General Xanager of NPA, who shall ex-oficic be
a non-voting member of the Board."
4.0 section 5. (2) of the Act shall be amended to
read as follows:
"5. (2)   The Chairman and every other member of the
Board, except the ex-oficio members and the General
Manager, shall hold office for a period of four years and
shall be eligible for re-appointment on expiration of
their terms, subject to the provisions of the transitory
arrangements mentioned in Art. 5.(1)(iii).
5.0  Section  5.(3)  of  the  NPA  shall  be  amended  to
read as follows:
5. (3)    In the absence of the Chairman, one of the



- 67 -                       ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 5
other members will be elected by the nominal
vote of the members present to act as
Chairman for that meeting."
6.0 Amendment of Bection S. (7):
Section 5. (7) of the Act shall be amended as
follows:
(7) If at any time it is evident that the perfor-
mance  of  a Member  of  the  Board of  Directors
is grossly detrimental to the effective and
economic performance of the functions of the
Authority, the tenure of such member shall be
liable to -termination by the President of the
Republic, upon recommendation by the Board of
Directors.
7.0 Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
7.1 The Board of Director shall be the policy making
body of NPA. Its functions and responsibilities
will include:
- appointing the General Manager, the Deputy General Manager
and the persons who perform the functions of Technical
Director, Financial Controller, Internal Auditor and
Company Secretary.
- defining general policy of NPA in accordance with
the provisions of this Act and national development policies
established by the Government;
- approving changes in the organizational structure of NPA;
- establishing salary scales for the staff of NPA from pro-
posals submitted to it by the General Manager;
- setting the salary of the General Manager;
- establishing and modifying electricity tariffs;
- approving all borrowings exceeding the equivalent of
US$ 50,000 (FIFTY THOUSAND U.S. DOLLARS) and awarding
contracts and bids exceeding the equivalent of
US$ 100,000 (ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND U.S. DOLLARS);
- approving the Annual Budget, investment plans for system



ANNEX 3-1
68 -                      Page 5 of 5
expansion, financial statements and financial plans.
- approving the quarterly and annual reports submitted to
it by the General Manager;
7.2 Qualifications of the General Manager
. In appointing the General Manager of NPA the Board
of Directors shall ensure that the nominee:
(a) Is a person of recognized good character, at least thirty
years of age.
(b) Is preferably a professional in Electrical or Mechanical
Engineering,    vith    management,    financial    and
administrative capacity proven by his experience in
positions of equivalent or greater responsibility.



- 6') -                          ANNEX 3-2
SIERRA LEONE POWER SECTOR REAMUTATON POECT
TMS OF REFERENCE FOR PREPARATION OF
BID DOCUMENTS FOR A MANAGEMENT CONTRACT
The scope of work of the expert to be hired under the PPF to prepare the
management contract will include the following:
(a)    Review existing management contracts (Cote d'Tvoire, Guinea-Bissau, etc.) to
identify those characteristics that might be suitable and desirable for the case
of Sierra Leone.
(b)    Determine targets to be used to judge performance of the management
company. These might include unit availability, production, billing,
collections, number of customers per staff, etc., as well as other specific items
such as:
(i)     Training and transfer of technology;
(ii)     Substitution of expatriates by local management/staff;
iii)     Implementation of billing, accounting, payroll and inventory control
systems; and
(iv)     Preparation of timely financial statements and of the Auditor's reports
without major observations.
(c)    Determine the nominal or initial values for the targets and the values to be
achieved in the following years.
(d)    Propose bonus and penalties to be applied as a function of the targets.
(e)    Propose a mechanism to share the bonus and/or penalties between the
management company and the resident expatriates.
(f)    Evaluate the need for prequalification and propose a methodology for
subsequently evaluating the offers received.
(g)    Prepare a draft of the bid documents, and if necessary, of the prequalification
documents.
(h)    Review the draft with NPA, with prospective and interested management
companies and with IDA.
(i)    On the basis of the comments received, prepare a final version of the bid, and
if necessary, the prequalification, documents, and
0)    Incorporate into the management contract the proposed revisions to the NPA
Act that has been agreed between the Government, NPA and IDA.



- 70 -                               ANNEX3-3
Page 1 of 4
SIERRA LEONE POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROQECT
MANAGEMENT CONTRACT AND TRAINING
1.         The project contains a significant institutional strengthening component comprised of:
(i) a management contract with expatriate experts in line functions, and (ii) local and overseas training
of NPA's staff.
Management Contract
2.         Given the situation of the power sector in Sierra Leone, it is proposed to involve the
private sector in the management of NPA. This participation would be in the form of a performance-
based management contract. The contract would be the result of a competitive process, wherein
several qualified parties would submit offers to manage the utility to annually achieve certain
predetermined targets. The contract would be awarded to the bidder who, while agreeing to meet
the targets, offers the lowest evaluated cost. Compliance with its contractual obligations would be
guaranteed through a performance bond or a similar instrument. Failure to meet the targets would
result in penalties, while improving on them would produce a bonus. It is proposed that IDA will
finance the cost of this contract, for a period of about three years (39 months to be exact, from
January 1993 to the end of FY96).
3.         In the management contract, the successful party would be at liberty to choose the
number of experts that it wishes to attach to the NPA in line management positions. Among other
things, it would have the right to hire and fire, and in general, all those functions normally reserved
to the management of a well run utility and which are to be reflected in the revision of the NPA Act.
As NPA's top management, it will report directly to NPA's Board of Directors. It will also have the
right to review the present management of NPA and, in as much as possible, it will try to use their
services or to reassign them to other functions, including advisory positions. Finally, it will also
have the responsibility of training NPA staff, particularly those persons presently in management and
whose services are retained. Since the contract will be awarded through competition, it is expected
that the bidders will make every effort to identify and incorporate qualified indigenous personnel in
their offer. Furthermore, it is also expected that they will make every effort to train local personnel
to replace expatriates quickly, as this will add to their profits since the contract amount would remain
unchanged while the cost of local staff would be lower than that of expatriates. The clear advantage
of this approach is that it uses the market forces to reduce the cost of the contract, and then the profit
incentive to ensure adequate and expeditious training of local staff.
4.         To hire the management firm, bid documents will have to be prepared. Again, given
NPA's present situation, it is necessary for it to have expert assistance in the preparation of these
documents, and it has been agreed to finance the services of an individual expert with funds from the
PPF. One of the key tasks of the expert will be to propose the targets to be used for monitoring
performance of the management company. Although some of the targets are fairly obvious, such as
availability of units, production, billing, collections, number of customers per staff, etc., others are
more subtle. These might include the putting in place of the accounting, billing, payroll and
inventory control systems by certain specified dates, as well as the timely preparation of financial
statements and the submission of audited reports without major observations. Finally, there is the
training to NPA staff, for which targets might also have to be developed. It is clear that the choice



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 4
of performance targets is critical to the success of this component of the project. If chosen too
stringently, they will discourage participation and hence increase the cost ot the services. If too lax,
they will not lead to a reasonable improvement of NPA in a reasonable time. Furthermore, they must
be easily quantifiable and verifiable in order to avoid lengthy and inconclusive discussions at the end
of each fiscal year. Finally, in as much as possible they must be independent of NPA's performance
in years past and relate to the time frame in which the firm would be providing its management
services. For example, the targets might include the billing of at least a given percentage of the
energy generated during the year, as well as collecting at least a given percentage of the energy billed
during that year. One additional factor will be the weight to be given to each of the different targets,
as some might be more important than others.
5.         Several utilities and consulting companies have expressed cautious interest in the
management contract. The consulting companies see their participation in the context of a joint
venture with an operating utility. In order to encourage participation in the bidding for the contract,
it is envisaged that the expert to be hired to prepare the bid documents will meet with these
companies and discuss the first draft of the documents. This should provide very valuable feedback
on the proposed contractual terms and on the adopted targets for measuring performance. These are
indications that this type of contracts is being used more frequently in the sector. Recently, EdFI
entered one such contract for the management of the utility in Guinea-Bissau, where performance is
judged based on two equally weighted targets, percentage of energy billed and percentage collected.
Although it is too early to tell how successful this contract will be, it does prove that there is interest
in the concept and that it can be implemented. What is clear is that for the process to work, there
must be an independent third party which provides the financing and whose presence fosters a climate
of fairness and of respect to the contractual framework. Without the active participation of this party,
the process will flounder. This is the reason for proposing that IDA finance this component.
6.         As part of the Emergency Rehabilitation Program, it is expected that the EC will finance
the services of four expatriates (Technical Director, Financial Director, Billing Manager and
Distribution Manager) who would serve in line positions. This would be in addition to the two
experts that GTZ is already financing and who are in charge of the operation and maintenance of the
Kingtom Power Station. It is expected that these experts will provide their services until the end of
1992, when the management contract to be financed by IDA would go into effect. The measures to
be undertaken under the Emergency Program will therefore naturally complement those to be
undertaken under the proposed program. In fact, the arrival of the team to be financed by the EC
should provide valuable input to the expert mentioned in paragraph 4 with regards to the contractual
provisions of the bid documents, including the targets to be used in the management contract. It
should also provide a credible source of information for the prospective bidders for the management
contract.
7.         The cost of the management contract has been estimated at US$ 4,500,000, excluding
contingencies, assuming the management company will bring a total of 7 expatriates for the duration
of the contract, and including a 10% provision for a yearly bonus. The estimate is based on the
management comnany providing expatriates for the positions of General Manager, Technical Director,
Financial Director, Billing and Collections Manager, Chief Accountant, Distribution Foreman and
Maintenance Chief for the Kingtom Power Station. It must be pointed out however, that since the
contract will be awarded through competition, it is quite likely that the bidders will propose a
combination of expatriates and local staff and that therefore the total cost will be less.



- 72 -
A-NNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 4
8.         Also, a more direct participation of the private sector In the power sector, such as a new
company created to operate or purchase the existing assets, was considered but was deemed
impossible at this moment. The state of disrepair of the institution and the assets, and the economic
situation of the country conspire against such an alternative. There have been several proposals
made, but they all seek to extract such a high price for their services (in terms of tariffs and other
concessions in taxes, mineral export rights, etc) as to make them totally unattractive. It is thought
that a set of minimum conditions must exist to make such an alternative viable. The proposed project
seeks to foster the creation of such conditions in the power sector, while measures proposed by Bank
and the IMF seek to address the macroeconomic issues. It is expected '-.at as these measures take
hold, it will be possible to revisit this matter.
9.         The one outstanding question of course refers to the measures to be taken at the end of
the management contract. There seem to be basically three possibilities: (a) it might be necessary
to continue with a performance-based management contract, albeit with a reduced expatriate presence;
(b) NPA has progressed to an extent that makes a management contract unnecessary. This of course
presupposes that an arms-length relationship has been established with the government and that it can
be reasonably preserved, and (c) a deeper participation of the private sector is deemed necessary.
In this case, the creation of a company to purchase and/or manage the assets of the stctor would be
a logical progression. These matters will be carefully looked into during project execution, and a
formal discussion of the alternatives will be provided as part of the Mid Term Review envisioned as
part of the supervision required by the project.
Local and Overseas Training for NPA's Staff
10.        Cunterpart Stff. As previously mentioned, to assure proper training and continuity,
NPA shall propose at least two candidates for each expatriate provided by the management company,
except for the position of General Manager. IDA expects to be given the opportunity to comment
on the qualifications of the persons to be trained. In order to assure the success of the technical
assistance program, proper safeguards will have to be put in place to guarantee that the local
counterparts wh. be assigned in a timely manner and that their qualifications will be suitable for the
proposed position.
11.        Overseas training. It is proposed that 75 man-months of on-the-job training in a utility
with relevant operating experience, preferably in a developing country, be provided for NPA's
professional staff. The selection of the host utility must be based on the degree of maturity it has
reached, as well as on sharing language and traditions with NPA. The training would be in critical
areas, such as accounting, preventive maintenance, data processing, commercial practices,
information systems, meter calibration and control, loss reduction (including reactive power analysis,
planing and control), etc. The training would last a minimum of three months and it is assumed that
the host utility would provide it free of charge. NPA would continue to pay the salary of the trainee,
while the donors would finance the traveling expenses and the per diem. The total cost of this
component of the training program has been estimated at US$ 450,000.
12.        Local Training in a GTZ financed Training Center. For several years GTZ financed
and operated a training center located in the Kingtom power station complex. Technicians, mostly
in mechanics and electricity, were trained by German experts. However, since the Center by itself
could not begin to address the serious problems faced by NPA, it was closed in the second half of
1989. It was reopened in 1991 in anticipation of the proposed project, and it will be part of a



- 73 -                                   A
Page 4 of 4
coordinated effort to address and solve the institutional, as well as the technical deficiencies of NPA.
It is expected that, in as much as possible, the Center will expand its scope of service and train not
only mechanical and electrical technicians, but also accountants, meter readers, data processors,
power plant operators, distribution technicians, etc. It Is expected that the Center will be in
operation, at least, until the project is completed.



- 74 -                               ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 10
SIERRA LEQNE POWER SE-CTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED POWER PROJECT SCPE
Details on the different project components are provided in the following paragraphs.
However, more detail is available in a document, with the same title as this annex, which can be
found in the project files.
A. Engineering
1.        Intrduction. Engineering services of different kinds will be required for proper project
implementation. Given the different sources of financing, it will be necessary to employ more than
one consulting firm. Although this is not an ideal situation, it is dictated by the need to have several
sources of financing for the project. To alleviate the situation, the Bid Documents for the
Management Contract will include the supervision and coordination of these efforts. The tasks to be
performed by Consultants will include the preparation of tender documents, evaluation of bids and
construction supervision for i) the generation rehabilitation component, ii) the new capacity addition
and iii) the subtransmission and distribution rehabilitation component, including general plant.
Additional, consultants' services will be required for the tasks described in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7
hereunder.
2.         Engineering for New Generation. As previously mentioned, these services would
include those required to specify, select, award and supervise the installation of one of the required
new 5 MW units. Since a 5 MW unit will be donated by the Government of Japan, ;ts associated
engineering cost has been included in the cost of the unit. The engineering services for the other unit
to be financed by IDA have been estimated at about 50 man-months, with a direct cost of about US$
800,000 (excluding price and physical contingencies). Of this amount, approximately US$ 760,000
would be foreign currency and US$ 40,000 local currency.
3.         Engineering for Generation Rehabilitation. The engineering services would also include
the review of all bids related to generation rehabilitation, as well as supervision of all rehabilitation
works (civil works, including access road, power house and ancillary buildings and fire fighting
equipment, crane, mechanical-electrical rehabilitation of both Sulzer units, replacement of 11 Kv
switchgear, rehabilitation of fuel treatmnent, water cooling and other auxiliary systems and spare parts
for the KHD units). The direct cost of this task has been estimated at about 120 man-months. with
a cost of US$1,800,000. Of this about US$1,710,000 would be paid in foreign currency, and about
US$ 90,000 in local currency.
4.         Engineering for Subtransmission and Distribution Rehabilitation. These serAces would
comprise the evaluation of bids for this component, as well as the construction supervision. This
would entail a direct cost of about 45 man-months, with a cost estimated at US$710,000. Of this,
about US$670,000 would be in foreign currency and US$40,000 in local currency.
5.         Consultants' Services to Review NPA's Tariff Structure. An individual consultant
would be hired to assist NPA review its tariff structure. A total of US$30,000 has been estimated
for this, of which US$27,000 would be paid in foreign currency and US$3,000 in local currency.



- 75 -
ANNX 4-1
Page 2 of 10
6.         Consultants' Services to Prepare Preqgualification and Bid Documents to Hire the
Management Contractor. It is estimated that the services of several individual consultants will be
needed to complete this task at a cost of US$150,000. Of this US$135,000 would be paid in foreign
currency and US$15,000 in local currency.
7.         Consultants for the Supervision of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project. The supervision
of the civil works of the Bumbuna hydroelectric project has been estimated to cost US$900,000, of
which US$850,000 would be paid in foreign currency and US$50,000 in local currency. The cost
of the services will be completely financed by IDA. It is expected that an expert in hydro design and
construction will be hired and that his sole responsibility will be the supervision of Bumbuna. He
will liaise with the Government of Sierra Leone, with the donor community, with the Board of
Consultants (described in the following paragraph) and with the consultants already retained for the
supervision of the civil works and for the supervision of the electro-mechanical equipment. It is
expected that this expert will reside in Sierra Leone and that he will share his time between Freetown
and the project site. He will in effect be NPA's representative at the site, and as such he will decide
those matters that fall within his sphere of responsibility. For other matters, he will consult with the
General Manager and/or with the Board of Directors of NPA, as the case might require. He will be
vested with the authority that the owner's representative normally has for the execution of projects
of this sort. He will prepare monthly progress reports for NPA's management and Board of
Directors, as well as for the Government authorities and the donor community.
8.         In addition to the expert cited in the preceding paragraph, NPA will also count on the
services of a Board of Consultants. The Board shall be made up of internationally recognized experts
in different fields of hydro project design and construction. The Board will meet two or three times
a year in Sierra Leone and will review all aspects of project planning and implementation. Their
meetings will last one to two weeks and will conclude with a report of their findings and
recommendations. The meetings of the Board will be convened by the expert mentioned in the
preceding paragraph, who will also be in charge of preparing all the documentation required for the
meetings, as well as of all the logistic support (hotels, transportation, typing, schedules for the visits,
attendants to the meetings, etc). The expert will also be responsible for ensuring compliance with
the Board's recommendations.
9.         The Board will have two permanent members:  an expert in hydro plant design,
construction and cost estimate and a geologist. The first expert will act as Coordinator of the Board
and he will decide what other experts will be invited to specific meetings of the Board. It is expected
that up to two additinal experts mighi join a particular meeting of the Board, as decided by the
Coordinator. Previous to inviting them to a meeting, the Coordinator shall justify the need for the
additional expertise and submit the CVs of the proposed experts to the resident expert mentioned in
the first paragraph. This expert will decide whether to accept the proposal of the Coordinator of the
Board.
10.        The additional experts might be required to review matters dealing with hydrology,
hydraulics, rock mechanics, tunneling and grouting, dam construction, electromechanical equipment,
etc.
11.       It is expected that the consultants already retained with funds from the Government of
Italy and the AfDB will participate actively in the meetings of the Board of Consultants. Their
participation will center around progress reports that they will prepare for the meetings, as well as



- 76 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 10
around problems and difficulties that they might wish to submit for discussion of the Board. It is
expect  that representatives of NPA, the Government and the donor community will also participate
in the meetings of the Board of Consultants.
12.       In addition to the scheduled meetings of the Board, the resident expert will also have
the option of cnsulting with them as the need arises. Such consultation will normally be by telephone
or fax. Only under extraordinary circumstances will additional travel be required for these purposes.
B. Studies
13.       Introduction. Three studies are included under this heading.  They consist of the
preparation of a master plan for system expansion, the environmental study for the Bumbuna
hydroelectric project and a study to consolidate energy sector activities in the MELP. It is foreseen
that a different consulting company would be retained to undertake each of these studies.
14.        Master Plan Study. This study comprises a twenty year master plan for the generation
and transmission expansion of NPA. It has been estimated at 46 man-months with a direct cost of
US$700 000. Of this, US$635,000 would be paid in foreign currency and US$65,000 in local
currency.
15.        Bumbuna Environmental ImDact Study. This study would analyze the environmental
impact of the Bumbuna hydroelectric project. It has been estimated to require 10 man-months with
a direct cost of US$150,000, of which US$135,000 would be paid in foreign currency and
US$15,000 in local currency.
16.        Consolidation of Energy Sector Activities in MEP. This study would seek to bring
under the Ministry of Energy and Power all energy related activities which are presently disseminated
under several different agencies. The study has been estimated to require about 10 man-months with
a direct cost of about US$150,000. As before, of this amount US$135,000 would be paid in foreign
currency, and about US$15,000 in local currency.
C. Generation Rehabilitation
17.       Introduction. This component includes the rehabilitation of Sulzer units number 4 and
5, as well as spare parts for th,em and for the four KHD units. The two MAN units were judged to
be beyond rehabilitation; it is instead proposed to replace them with two new units. The project
description and cost estimate is based on a study prepared by Lahmeyer International, retained by
NPA to prepare this part of the project and financed with funds from the PPF.
18.        Rehabilitation Cost Estimate. The direct construction cost of the rehabilitation of the
King Tom Power Station amounts to US $ 10.69 million. The rehabilitation cost estimate has been
prepared assuming that the maximum nominal capacity of the units will be restored and that their
efficiency will be improved as much as is economically feasible. The remaining life time of the
Sulzer engines after rehabilitation is estimated to be 10 years. It is also estimated that at the end of
the rehabilitation, the specific fuel consumption will be in the range of 230 g/Kwh. Similarly, the
lube oil consumption will be about 0.20 g/Kwh, and the cylinder oil consumption will be about 0.70
g/Kwh. The break down of the estimate is presented in the following paragraphs.



- 77 -
ANNEX 41
Page 4 of 10
19.        Rehabilitation of the Civil Works and Associated Equiment. This item has been
estimated at US$ 1.45 million, plus US$ 80,000 for spares for the ventilation, air conditioning and
fire fighting equipment. The breakdown is as follows:
i.   Cleaning of power station         US$100,000
ii.   Repair of power station
facilities                       US$400,000
iii.  Repair of power house            US$400,000
iv.   Protection of Sulzer
foundation                       US$50,000
,v.   Ventilation, air conditioning
and lighting                   US$150,000
plus spares for 2 years          US$30,000
vi.  Fire fighting system              US$350,000
plus spares for 2 years          US$50.000
20.        Rehabilitation of two Sulzer Diesel Engines and Associated Auxiliary Eguipment and
Systems (units 4 and 5). This amounts to US$ 7,735,000, plus US$950,000 for spare parts. These
are needed in view of the accelerated deterioration of the power plant.
21.        Rehabilitation of the Generator and Associated Equipment. The revised figures amount
now to US$ 880,000, plus a provision of US$ 170,000 spare parts.
22.        Rehabilitation of the 1 I Ky Switchgear of the Generating Equipment. This portion of
the 11 Kv switchgear rehabilitation amounts to US$ 625,000, plus US$ 50,000 for spare parts.
23.        The above mentioned figures are based on the following detail (in thousands of US$)
and, as previously mentioned, more detail can be found in the project files:
(i)   Sulzer Diesel Generator sets                2585
(ii)  Auxiliary Systems
-Cylinder cooling water                      155
-Piston cooling water                        115
-Lubricating oil cooling                     160
-Fuel Injector cooling                        40
-Sea/Fresh water (Alpha-Laval)                75
-Cylinder lubricating oil system              IS
-Heavy fuel oil system                       585
-Diesel Oil System                            60
-Steam and Condensate system                 620
-Starting Air System                          20
-Service Air System                           45
-Municipal water and water treatment          80
-Incinerator (sludge treatment)              125
-Cranes and hoists                            75
-Tools                                        50
-Painting and corrosion protection           100



- 78 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 5 of 10
-Contractors equipment                        650
-Personnel costs
Total (i) and (ii)                           Z
(iii) Generator Units 4 & 5 and associated
low voltage systems                          880
(iv)  11 Kv Switchgear for the Generators          625
(v)   Civil and Fire Fighting
-Civil Rehabilitation                        1100
-Fire fighting                                350
(v)   Scrapping of MAN diesel sets                 410
(vi)  Spare Parts for two years
for the power station
-Sulzer diesel and associated equipment      900
-Fuel treatment and water cooling             50
-Fire fighting                                50
-Ventilation and air conditioning             30
-Generation and
associated equipment                       170
-ICHD Units                                  1100
-11 Kv generation equipment
Total Spare Parts
D. New Generation
24.        This component includes the installation of two 5 MW medium speed diesel units to
replace the MAN units that will not be rehabilitated. The cost estimate assumes that one of the units
will be donated by the Government of Japan. This component also includes a provision for spare parts
for five years for the unit to be donated by the Government of Japan. It is expected that the
Government of Japan will agree to supply parts for five years as a shorter period will not be suitable
for Sierra Leone. For the other unit, it assumes a provision of spare parts for five years.
25.        The direct installed cost of the unit to be donated by tne Govmrnment of Japan is
estimated at US$6,000,000, including the spare parts for two years of operation. The cost of the
other new unit (installed) is estimated at US$6,000,000 (including the normal provision of spares for
two years). The spare parts for the additional three years is estimated at US$ 900,000 for each unit,
and the engineering associated with the unit donated by the Government of Japan (and which has been
included in the direct cost of the unit) has been estimated at US$ 500,000.
E. Subtransmission Rehabilitation
26.        Introduction.   This component seeks to rehabilitate the existing substations and
subtransmission lines, as well as expand them as necessary to meet the growing demand. The project



- 79 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 6 of 10
description and the cost estimate is based on a study prepared by Lahmeyer International, retained
by NPA to prepare this portion of the project. Lahmeyer's work was financed with funds from the
PPF. The project consists of several related parts which are listed in the following paragraphs.
27. Replacement of Old and Defecti-e !I Km Subsation EguiDMent
RRehabilitation of Buildings in the Primarv Substations
(i)   Kingtm Power Station
Complete 11 Kv metalclad switchgear, one protection panel, one control panel, extension of
33 Kv SF6 switchgear and other minor works, for a total of US$1,140,000.
(ii)  Falconbridge Substation
Dismantling, transport, maintenance and reinstallation of 4 existing line feeders, rehabilitation
of control equipment and other minor works, for a total of US$ 130,000.
(iii) Blackhall Road Substation
Rehabilitation of existing protection scheme for four line feeders,one control panel, new SF6
switchgear, new 10 MVA 33/11 Kv transformer and other minor works, for a total of US$
620,000.
(iv) Congo Cross Substation
One protection panel, one control panel and other minor works, for a total of US$130,000
(v)  Brokofields Subtation
Rehabilitation of the protection scheme, one control panel and other minor work estimated at
US$170,000.
(vi) Wellingon Substation
Complete new 11 Kv switchgear (7 feeders), one protection panel, one control panel, one new
station supply feeder and other minor works, estimated at US$340,000
(vii) New 33/11 Ky Substation Wilberforce
Civil works, new control building, new SF6 33 Kv and 11 Kv switchgear, 10 MVA power
transformer, protection and control panels and other minor work estimated at US$1,360,000
(viii) New 33 Ky Overhead-Lines
28.        The estimated cost for 1 kan new 33 Kv line including complete supply of wooden poles,
120 or 70 mm2 Alu-Alloy conductors suspended on g -ss disc insulator strings or pin type insulators
and erection is about US$ 20,000 per kn. It is estimated that about 10 kms of new 33 Kv overhead



- 80 -
ANNEX 4-I
Page 7 of 10
lines will have to be built, including about 7 kms to replace the damaged 33 Kv cable between
Kingtom and Blackhall Road. The cost estimate for this component is therefore US$ 200,000
TOTAL COST SIBTRANSMISSION REHABILITATION                             US$4,090,000
F.   DISTRBUTION REHABILITATION
(i)   Rehabilitation of Faulty Underground Cable Sections 11 Ky
29.        The existing 11 Kv network in Freetown can carry the load up to 1995. Only some
improvements and the repair of all defective underground cables are required. There are about 36
kms of feeders with defective 11 Kv underground cables which should be repaired or replaced by
OHL. It is estimated that the repair would require about 23 kms of overhead lines and 4 kms of
underground cables.
30.        In those cases where cables have yet to be procured, overhead lines will be built to
replace damaged underground feeders, unless the total length of the underground cable to be repaired
is less than 20% of the total feeder length. Whenever applicable, copper cables will be replaced by
aluminum cables as follows: (i) the 3 x 193 mm2 Cu will be replaced by 3x300 mm2 aluminum and
(ii) the 3 x 129 mm2 Cu will be replaced by 3x185 mm2aluminum.
31.        The L413 feeder (ConC 400 MaYo 426) which has a 33 Kv cable is defective. Since
NPA has spare cable at hand, it should be repaired. The project cost estimate makes allowance for
this. Additionally, the cost estimate makes provision for several short sections of 33 Kv (maximum
i km length each) to repair very short sections of existing cables or other special occasions and uses.
In total, five circuit kms of 185 mm2 Al cable are included (at about US$ 70,000 per circuit km),
plus the labor required to repair the above mentioned L413 feeder (approximately US$ 20,000). The
total cost for this is estimated at US$ 370,000.
32.        In order-to repair damaged cables, a cable test set completely equipped with racking to
carry the fault location and burning equipment for 11 Kv and 33 Kv cables has been included in the
equipment to be financed under the proposed project. The repair of the cables will require test
measurements, cable trenching, fault location, cutting and jointing, replacement of short sections,
backfilling and street repair. For the 11 Kv cables a total circuit length of 7 circuit kms has been
assumed, including the length needed to connect new transformers to the network. The cost estimate
is as follows:
Supply of cables                  US$200,000
Terminations and joints           US$50,000
Trenching and backfilling         US$50,000
Installation                      US$190,000
Total            uS3 0
(ii) New 11 Ky Overhead Linem
33.        The estimated cost for an 11 Kv line on wood poles, with 70 mm2 AAAC, including
complete supply and erection is about US$ 16,000 per km. It is proposed to convert the existing



- 81 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 8 of 10
Kortwright-Charlotte line from 3.3 Kv to 11 Kv. Since the poles and conductors are adequate, this
would simply require the change of insulators with a cost estimated at US$ 17,000. It is also
proposed to replaced damages 11 Kv cables with overhead lines with a length estimated at 23 kms
and to rebuild some other 10 kms of existing lines to improve voltage regulation and reduce losses.
The cost of these 33 kms of 11 Kv lines is estimated at US$ 528,000.
34.        In summary, for 11 Kv lines, as well as for 11 and 33 Kv cables, the cost estimate is:
33 Kv cables          US$370,000
11 Kv cables          US$490,000
Kortwright-Charlotte line US$17,000
11 Kv lines to replace
damaged cables        US$368,000
New 11 Kv lines       US$160,000
TOTAL 11 Kv lines
and 33 and 11 Kv cables    US$ 1,405,000
(iii)  Rehabilitation of Transformer Stations
Supply of Distribution Transformers 11/0.4 Kv
A total of 30 transformers with a total capacity of 8,610 kVA is contemplated with a
cost estimated at US$ 150,000. The installation is expected to cost US$ 75,000. The units will be
pole-mounted unless site conditions do not allow it.
(iv) RMU Replacement
A total of 8 units is contemplated with a cost of USS 130,000, including installation.
(v)  LV Boards Replacement
A total of 62 units is contemplated with a cost of US$ 360,000, including installation.
TOTAL TRANSFORMERS. RMU AND LV BOARDS US$ 715,000
(vi) REHABILITATION OF LOW VOLTAGE LINES
(vii) LV Cable Connections
A total of 16,800 m is foreseen, with a cost (including installation) estimated at US$
220,000
LV Connection Accessories (Heat shrinkable terminals and parallel groove Clamsl.
A total of 1,704 terminals and 2,600 clamps have been estimated, with a cost (including
installation) of US$ 110,000



- 82 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 9 of 10
(viii) Rehabilitation of LV-Lines
Insulate LV Aerial Cables and recondctoring of LV-OHL (The budget has been
prepared assuming insulated aerial cable; however, whenever possible, bare conductor, open wire
construction will be used. This means that most likely the estimated quantities of work will be
exceeded in practice). A total of 50,000 meters of insulated cable, and all the pertinent accessories,
as well as 10 kms of bare conductors (and accessories) for reconductoring some of the lines, have
been included in the project for at a cost of US$ 740,000
Total LV lines rehabilitation US$ 1,070,000
(ix) Meters and Service Drops
The project includes 2,500 meters and 94 kms of service drops (including all accessories
and installation) at a cost estimated at US$ 1,020,000.
(x) Rehabilitation of the Public Lighting
2,000 sodium bulbs, accessories and installation have been included with a cost
estimated at US$ 90,000
TOTAL COST DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION  US$ 4,300,000
F. Communications and General Plant
35.        Communications Equipment. NPA presently has a Motorola VHF system, with 16 hand
held mobile units and one unit acting as base. The system operates well, except for certain areas of
Freetown where it cannot reach due to the lack of a repeater station. The project seeks to expand
and complete the system for the Freetown area; it does not at this point seek to provide
communications with the isolated generation centers. The equipment to be provided is as follows:
a repeater station at Leicester Peak, a base station at Falconbridge, 15 mobile transceivers, 12 hand
held transceivers, installation, commissioning and spare parts, for a total estimated at US$ 150,000
36.        Data Processing Equipment. The purpose of this component would be to provide NPA
with data processing capacity to handle customer billing, payroll, accounting, budget control and
inventory control. Presently some of these tasks are carried out manually, but a computer has been
included in the emergency Program. The purpose here is to provide funds for the purchase of readily
available software that has been tested and used by other utilities. This thus seeks to complement the
process started under the emergency program, which will provide the hardware and part of the
software. A provision of US$ 50,000 has been made to purchase the above mentioned off the shelf
software as needed. This component would also include five microcomputers: two for the
warehouses and three for engineering applications. In addition to the microcomputers, the required
software will also be financed. The estimate for this portion of the project is US$ 20,000. Given
that this component refers mostly to software, it is propose to acquire it through international
shopping. The total cost has been estimated at US$ 70,000, of which all would be paid in foreign
exchange.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 10 of 10
37.        Vehicles. Presently NPA has only a handful of work vehicles, which are rapidly
deteriorating due to the lack of maintenance and spare parts. The project does not seek to solve this
situation completely but to provide a bare minimum of vehicles with which the utility will be able
to operate more efficiently. It is expected that this matter will receive additional financing in future
operatiens as experience dictates. For now, it is proposed to the following vehicles:
Two   Trucks, 8 tons payload, with long bed for transport of poles and equipment;
One   Truck, 8 tons payload, with hydraulic lifting hoist 2.5 tons, 5 m reach;
Four  General purpose vehicles 4WD, long wheel base for transporting personnel and -,quipment;
Four  Double cabin pick-up for transporting personnel and equipment;
One   Excavator and pole lifter;
One   Hand operated mobile ladder on wheels;
One   Cable test Van completely equipped with racking to carry the fault location and burning
equipment for 11 Kv/33 Kv cable and LV auto-generator;
One   Cable drum trailer 6 tons, 2.5 m diameter, and
Five   Heavy fuel oil tankers with a capacity of 20 tons each.
Total Cost for Vehicles US$ 1,000,000
38.        Tools and Eguipment. This component would provide financing for the most urgently
required: peration and maintenance tools and equipment. Tools shall be provided for 10 construction
and maintenance crews in Freetown and 10 crews in the Provinces. The detail of the tools can be
found in the project files, and the estimated cost is US$ 150,000
(b) Test Equipment
This is mostly equipment for distribution, to assist in the location of underground faults,
as well as meggers, oil filtering equipment, etc. Details can be found in the project files. The total
cost has been estimated at US$ 250,000
AFTlE
Fcbunmy 1992



SllA LEONE POWER SECrOR REHAB3UMATION PROJECT
FRWOJ3r cmS
(n thuand of USS)
P AL YEAR 1993           FJ CAL YEAR 1994         FDWAL  EAR  1995        FWC.AL  EAR 1996          NM1D1YAL
PC    W    IPAL          PC   IC  IAL            PC    LC  ITOAL          PC    LC  IrIAL         1C    LC  ltUAL
NBWEUAT1 I                    910   200   1,110       5s 1110   6,165         4,345  9ff    5,300      1,415  310   ,725      11,725  2,7   14,300
G3 BA1I         A3          2,30    280   2,620       S,375 1,190   9,565      1,IOS   160  l,26          0    0       0     11,10  1,630  13,450
RUIAB          390    20    410        I,5S   30   1635         1,55   s0                 390   20    410        3,9    200   4,090
DIRIDERMONVEUA                385    45      430      1,550  170   1,720      1,550  170   1.720         335   4S    430       3,87    430   4,300
GIALHLANT                     1G0      0     160        905    5    970         485    5    490            0    0       0      1,610    10   1'2
lhCOEE       I I A C LTA   U2S        50 s    75      1,235M   65   1,350       915   4S    960          285   20    305       3,310    130   3,490
BUIIUN&SU BEIOM                 0      0       0        255  15      270        345   IS    360          255    S    270         355    4S    900
STUDIES                        90     10     100        S40  60       60        27030         300          0    0       0        900  100   1,0
M       ANAGEMNCOIUK ACr      325    35    360        1,21   13S5   1,350      1,295  145   1,440      1,215  135   1,350      4,050   450   4,500
IRADIDiG                       40      S      45        7515          90        ISS   25    ID         I1S   20    135          31S    65    450                     O
IUCALCONTlNGUICT              730    95      87       2,920  405   3,32S       1,310  180   1,490        406   SS    460       5,41S   735   6,150 I
BMICEOWINEMNCY                240    30      270      1,330  130   1,510       1,23S  165   1,400        62S   35    710       3,430   460   3,890
DRUUNDff                      750      0     750          0    0        0         0    0        0          0    0       0        750      0    750
LUDEOIL                      10       0     130        250    0    250         130    0      130        190    0     190        300      0    SWD
DAM    U I                      0  1,323   1,325          0 5,45S   5,45S         0 2,770   2,770          0  630    630           0 10,230  10,230
TOALrOIB,rI (Xr             7,41S  2,09S   9,510    2S373,5   34,25S          14,745 4.74S  19,490     S,230 1,335   6,66S    52,310 17,110  69S20



- 85 -                              ANNEX 4-3
ERRA LONEB POWER SECTOR RERABUITATION PROl
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(m tb_msuis of US$)
IDA   JAPAN a/   EBI a/         EC a/     NPA    TOTAL
NEW GENERATION                  8,305     7,090                            1,560    16,955
GENERATION REHAB                                   17,045                           17,045
SUBTIANSMISSION                                                  4,610      245      4,855
DISTRIBUTION                                                     4,585       505     5,090
GENERAL PLANT                   1,890                                         10     1,900
ENGINEERING & CONSUL            1,160               2,095         805        45      4,105
BUMBUNA SUPERVISION             1,075                                                1,075
STUDIS                          1,175                                                1,175
M[ANAGEMENT CONTRACr            5,385                                                5,385
TRAINWG                           460                                        95       555
REIMBURSE PPF                     750                                                 750
LUBE OIL                          800                                                  800
IMPORT DUTIES                                                             10,230    10,230
TOTAL                          21. 000             192140       109.0     12.690    69.920
InTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION                                               4,600     4,600
Noe: Fig   imlus lphysc md pnioe
a/   To b c_nfimd.



AX I                     IR AXIk
..   ...    ..   .     . . .. . .
I9ll
II- 8 
FFI      E



ep  Wt * ad 
I    _ WN
I7         T     J1  r1 T. r7TT-   -- 
I                                     I'1  11111
11111                         if~~~~~~~~~~~~
£ P E                                      L-'L. SE.'f:'.'.;'i.:;::U ........... 6;''X:.y:'':" .:;z:'-'..%'--'+-.^::  ..............- -.......   



I             4 1.    -I'
Xj(4           ~~~~~IT I
iA HI FMi!Iii!! !i!iI2 11§12!i!Pi!i::11 '11  X
i?1If!!! !I[ = X '?'''f!1LL1f[         - -X
W~~~d1LL h;_S LILFF1II[



- 99 -                          ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of 2
SIERRA LEONE - POWER SECTOR REfA BILITA TION PROJEC,
ESTMA TED CREDIT DISBURSEMENi
(IN THOUSANDS OF US$)
_ _    _    _    _    _    _~ .  -=                              =  _ _ 
IDA Fiscal Year    Semester      % during     Cumulative    Cumulative
Disbursement    semester   Disbursement      %
4th Quarter 1992         0            0.00           0            .00
1st Quarter 1993        975          4.48          975          4.48
2nd Quarter             450           2.07         1,425         6.55
3rd Quarter             550           2.53         1,975         9.08
4th Quarter             1,300         5.98         3,275         15.06
1st Quarter 1994       1,400         6.44          4,675        21.49
2nd Quarter             1,600         7.36         6,275        28.85
3rd Quarter            2,005          9.22         8,280        38.07
4th Quarter             1,600         7.36         9,880        45.43
1st Quarter 1995       1,800         8.28         11,680        53.70
2nd Quarter            2,200         10.11        13,880        63.82
3rd Quarter            2,395         11.01        16,275         74.83
4th Quarter             1000          4.60         17,275        79.43
1st Quarter 1996        1100         5.06         18,375        84.48
2nd Quarter             1,200         5.52         19,575       90.00
3rd Quarter             1,425         6.55        21,000        100.00
3/20/92 9.59



Sierra Leone
Power Sector Rehabilitation Project
Project vs Standard Disbursement Profile
% of Credit Disbursed
120
100                     --- _ 
60...-
40  -               .    +       .
20
0
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12
Semesters After Credit Approval
Africa-Power Sector     Proposed Project
Assuming Loan Approval End March 1992
r1



ANNEX 4-6
-i 91 -Page 1 of 2
_  e  _   _    E                                               .       .                         .
Cy
a~~~~~~    



ANNEX 4-6
92                             ~~~~~~~~Page 2 of 2
VI  a
Si
Ia                                                          '-                 IUIIL               



- 93 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 of 3
SIERRA LEONE POWER SECTOR REHABIIJTATION PROJECT
EPRMS OIL  REFERENCE - -R ENGINEERING AND
PROSE-CT MONITORING AND CONTROL CONSULTANTS
Engineering and project monitoring and control consultants would typically be
involved in all matters pertaining to project execution, from design, bid document preparation,
assistance during bidding, bid evaluation, assistance in contract negotiations, certification for
contractor payment, supervision during construction and preparation of reports required by the
financing organizations. These consultants would assist the management contractors in the same
fashion that they would normally support the management of a utility. They will in fact allow the
management contractor to dedicate himself fully to the management of the utility, while the
consultants will take responsibility for project engineering, monitoring and control.
In this case, the project management consultants would assist in:
1 .    review of the general characteristics of the equipment to be procured, mainly
the new generating unit and the general plant equipment;
2.   preparation of bid documents, including cost estimates and tentative time
schedules, in accor,.ance with the requirements of the financing
organizations. This would include generation (a new 5 MW unit, including
its associated civil works and equipment needed to connect it to the
network), lubricating oil and general plant (communications equipment,
personal computers and software, vehicles and distribution tools and
equipment);
3.    assistance during bidding of all the above mentioned components.
Consultants would answer all questions posed by all interested parties during
the bidding period. They would also issue all necessary addenda in
consultation with NPA and the financing institution involved;
4.    evaluate all bids received for the different ccmponents and submit its
recommendation to NPA. After approval by NPA, the bid evaluation would
be submitted to the corresponding financing agency;
5.    assist in contract negotiations with the selected contractor until a draft
contract is agreed upon between NPA and the contractor. Subsequently, the
draft contract would be sent to the corresponding financing agency for its
review;
6.    prepare a revised time schedule and supervise project execution to guarantee
compliance to specificatiens and to the time schedule. Review contractor's
claims for additional time or costs and submit its recommendation to NPA.
Anticipate possible problems project execution might encounter and



-94 -                               ANNEX 47
Page 2 of 3
recommend apptopriate solutions (in particular identify possible sources of
time delays and cost overruns and propose measures to overcome them);
7.    certify contractor's progress payments. Review time schedule and forecast
delays as well as the means for overcoming them. Prepare and update
disbursement schedules and estimate the need for additional funds (cost
overruns);
8.    prepare monthly and quarterly progress reports covering the project, in
accordance with the requirements of the participating fmancial
organizations, and
9.   train NPA's staff in project management and control.
In addition to having experierce in these types of projects, the consultants should
also have experience in dealing with multilateral financing institutions. In particular they should
be familiar with their requirements for reporting and with their guidelines for the procurement of
goods and services.
4.          The content of the Quarterly Progress Report would include the following:
(a) Discussion of all important issues, complete with the titles of the parties
responsible for the proposed solution and a timetable for the actions to be
undertaken.
(1) Review of the Quarter. Discussion of what was accomplished during the
Quarter, of what was to be accomplished and the reasons for the differences.
Proposals for handling the outstanding matters, complete with the names of the
parties responsible for the solution and a timetable for the actions to be adopted.
(c) Schedule of major tasks for the following Quarter, complete with the names of
the responsible parties and timetable.
(d) Outstanding matters from previous reports. Proposals for handling these
matters, together with the names of the responsible parties and timetable.
(e) Project cost estimate. Original (SAR), official (agreed with IDA) and current.
Explanation of the differences between the last two.
(f) Financing of the project. Original, official and current. Explanation of the steps
taken to put in place the current financing scheme.
(g) Disbursement (as confirmed by IDA) and commitments (including own funds).
Status of the disbursement and commitment of the financing by category and
contract. If any category is likely to be overdrawn, explanation of reasons and of
the measures taken to reallccate funds. Projection by quarter for the next four
quarters by source of financing. Discussion of any difficulties that might arise with
the provision of the local counterpart.



- 95 - 
?age 3 of 3
(1) Time schedule. Critical path chart of all project   acivie,  uiscg st
and trainig. Again, present the original, official and curren tmetables with
explanation of the differences.
O) Information on the situation of NPA. Generation, sales (Gwh), losses, billing
(Leones), collections, staffing, efficiency indicators, etc. Other importan events,
such as the presentation of reports by exten  auditors, compliance with fimacial
covenants, tariff adjustments, etc., should be reported as they occur during a
particular quarter.



- 96 -
AEX 4I
Pag  1 of 2
SIERRA LEONE - POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECR
SUPERVISION PLAN AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Expected Skill        Staff
Approximate                 Activity                  Requirements          Input
Date                                                                    (Staff-
weeks)
4-5/92          Project Launch Workshop        Power engineer,              10
Procurement,
Disbursement,
Economist and
Financial Analyst
10-11/92         Supervision mission            Power engineer,              4
Financial Analyst,
Economist
4-5/94          Supervision mission (first     Power Engineer,               6
meeting with management       financial analyst,
contractor)                   economist
10-11/93         Supervision mission (to        Power engineer,              6
review training proposal).    Financial Analyst,
Training Expert
4-5/94          Mid-term review                Power engineer,               8
Economist, Financial
Analyst, Institutional
Analyst
10-11/94         Supervision mission            Power Engineer,              4
Financial Analyst
4-5/95          Supervision mission            Power Engineer,               4
Financial Analyst
10-11/95         Final supervision mission      Power Engineer,              8
Economist, Financial
Analyst, Institutional
Analyst



- 97 -
ANNEX 48
Page 2 of 2
KEMY PERFORAC IDCE,
Indicators to be Monitored Annually:          FY93    FY94    FY95         FY96
Gross generation (GWh)                        81.5    123.4    167.5    175.2
Station use (%)                                5.5      5.3       5.0       5.0
Kingtom specific fuel
consumption (g/k (kWh)                       260       250       240      230
Kingtom specific lub
oil consumpton (gQk kWh)                     4.0       3.5       3.0      2.5
Energy available for sale (gWh)               65.7    102.0    143.6    150.2
Billir- (as %' cf energy available
for sale)                                   81.0      82.0      83.0     84.0
Non-Govt. accounts receivables
equivalent hdays of sales                     90        90        60       60
No. of customers per employee                  30        33        35       40
Operating ratio (%)                            110       85        73       76
Current ratio (times)                          1.1       1.2      1.2       1.3
Self-financing ratio (%)                       4.5      13.3     19.4      48.9
OTHER PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Hiring of management contractor                  By January 1993
Hiring of engineering and project
monitoring and control consultants             By October 1992
Beginning studies included in Credit             By January 1994
Hiring Board of Consultants for
Bumbuna hydro project                          By January 1993
Setting-up new accounting system                 By July 1993
Setting-up new payroll system                   By July 1993
Setting-up new inventory control
system                                         By July 1993
Submission of audited reports                   By October 1992
Award contract for new 5 MW unit                 By October 1993
Award equipment included as General
Plant                                          By Febuary 1994
Submission of training program                  By July 1993



- 98 -                              ANNEX 4-9
Page I of 6
SIERRA LEONE NATIONAL POWER AUTHORITY
ENVIRONMIENTAL IMPAa  TUDY
FOR THE BUMBUNA HYDROELECT RIC PROECT
1.          BACKGROUND
1.1               Tahe Bumbuna hydro scheme, on the Seli River, was iden-tifled in 1971
during a survey of the country's hydro potential. In 1980 a feasibility study was completed and
in 1982, after further work, bidding documents had been prepared for the development of a staged
70 MW hydro project as the next addition to Sierra Leone's power generating capacity.
Meanwhile, the Government of Sierra Leone obtained a loan from the Italian Government for the
construction camps and river diversion works, which were completed in 1984.
In 1983, the World Bank prepared a report which concluded that under the
economic conditions in Sierra Leone at the time, further major work on the Bumbuna prqj.ct
should be deferred until such conditions improved, particularly balance of paymerms and debt
servicing. Simultaneously, NPA consultants together with Bank staff, examined further staging
of the Bumbuna scl, rne to benefit from the relatively large investments already made by ne
Government in the Bumbuna project, while maintaining its economic merits under drorping oil
prices. Certain components of the project, such as transmission circuits, were detfrred easd the size
of the project was reduced through design moaifications but without jeopardizing the work already
done or further stages in the Seli River power dev'elopment as originally designed. The reduced
Bumbuna has an installed capacity of 47 MW.
The Project is located in the Northeastern region of Sierra Leone at a distance of
some 200 km from the capital of Freetown. The Bumbuna dam is located 4 km from the village
of Bumbuna, 2.5 km upstream of the natural Bumbuna Falls. It consists of a run-of-river plant
with a rock-fill 400 m dam 87 m high at 244.00 m a.s.l., and 4 m wide at the crest.
The outdoor power house will be located at the toe of the dam embankment and will
be furnished with a single 47 MW unit. Firm capacity is 24 MW, firm energy 157 GWh and
average energy 290 GWh per year. Power will be transmitted over a 199 km long single circuit
161 kV line between Bumbuna and Freetown, in the Western Region of Sierra Leone.
The Government of Sierra Leone has decided to implement this scaled-down version
of the Bumbuna Falls Hydroelectric Project, which is an intermediate development stage of the
original project (Stage I). During 1988 and 1989 the Government negotiated and obtained
financing 'or the Bumbuna civil works from the Government of Italy. The Italian contractors have
been working at the site since early 19. Subsequently, financing for the rest of the reduced
Bumbuna (i.e., electromechanical equipment, transmission line and substations) was completed
by the Government with a loan from the African Development Bank (AfDB) which was approved
in December of 1990.
1.2               The consultant should take into consideration that the Cabinet of the Republic
of Sierra Leone has recently approved (May, 1990) the National Environmental Policy. The



- 99 -                             ANNEX49
Page 2 of 6
Environmental Protection Section of the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Environment, working
as the Secretariat of the National Environmental Committee and in collaboration with relevant
agencies, organizations and institutions, both public and private, has been entrusted with the
responsibility of undertaking the necessary follow-up action required to bring the policy
recommendations into effect.
2.          OBJECTIVE
As a complement to the "Power Sector Rehabilitation Project", financed by the
International 'Development Agency and several donors, the Government of Sierra Leone proposes
to engage a qualified consulting firm to determine the impact of the Bumbuna Hydro Project on
the environment and to quantify the measures, and their associated costs, needed to ameliorate the
negative aspects of the project, if any. The Consultant is encouraged to make as much use as
possible of local expertise in this field presently available in Sierra Leone.
It is estimated that twenty man-months of Consultant services will be required to
prepare the study. In all cases, a cost estimate and construction schedule (where appropriate) must
be proposed. An assessment as to the overall impact of the project most be provided by the
Consultant.
3.          SCOPE OF SERVICE
The study will determine the possible impact of the project on the environment,
public health and social welfare of the peoples affected by it. The study will look into all these
aspects of the environmental impact of the project through a with- and without-project type
approach. It is understood that some aspects will be more relevant than others; it is expected,
however, that the Consulmants will study all relevant matters, devoting their time in accordance
with the relative importance of each issue. The study shall include, but not necearily be limited
to, the following:
iU)    The nature and extent of the biotic community existing witdn the Project
area likely to be affected by the construction, presence or opeation of the project, paying special
attention to impact of the project on those life forms economically or aesthetically desirable,
ecologically unique or among endangered species. Impact of the project on fish and wildlife
resources, their presence, abundance, reproduction and distribution.
il)    The effects of the project on agricultural and forestry potental of riparian
lands; the bio-physical alterations or changes permanen or episodically transient) to be expected
from the future impoundment area and downstream.
IU)     The effect of the project construction to date, presence or operation on nui-
sance organisms and disease-bearing vectors and on the pattern and distribution of diseases, the
effect of the construction camps and the increased risk of communicable diseases, including AIDS,
due to the concentration of constuction personnel, their families and all supportng activities.



- 100 -
ANEX 4-9
Page 3 of 6
Iv)     The possible economic, social and cultural impact on people occasioned by
the project construction or operation, including requirements for resettlement, analyzing the
adequacy of compensations paid or to be paid to the people. Should resettlement be necessary, the
adequacy and sufficiency of the relocation plans will be assessed with due regard to the culture,
ethnic origins, life styles, living patterns, social customs and related socio-cultural factors of the
affected population. Supply of water downstream from the project during river diversion must be
evaluated.
v)     The impact of people on the project, including the potential for squatter
settlements, unplarned land-use activities in the catchment area especially with regard to e -foresta-
tion, erosion and pollution, and new economic activities that might affect the project.
vi)     The effect of the project on sites of archeological or historic significance,
and the adequacy of the plans for protecting or salvaging them.
vii)    Plans for the protection and management of the project area shall be
examined or initiated with a view to preventing the utilization of the watershed area in ways
detrimental to the project's intended use and longevity.
viii)    Identification and quantification of the positive impact and benefits that the
project will provide, i.e.: reforestation from basin management and control; better access
provided to the area and its resources; employment during construction and project operation;
avoidance of the environmental impact of the alternative means of producing electric power.
Ix)     Mitigation plan:   Feasible and cost-effective measures which may reduce
potentially significant adverse envirommental impacts to acceptable levels should be proposed, and
the potential environmental impacts, capital and recurrent costs, and institutional and training
requirements of those measures estimated. The plan should provide details on proposed work
programs and schedules, to ensure that the proposed environmental actions are in phase with
engineering activities. The plan should consider compensatory measures if mitigation measures
are not feasible or cost-effective.
x)     Monitoring plan regarding environmental impacts and performance. The
plan should specify the type of monitoring, who would do it, how much it would cost, and  d4
other inputs (i.e., training) are necessary.
xi)     All other aspects that are normally included in a study of this nature.
4.          COORDINATION WiM LOCAL                    E   AND ORGANIZATIONS
The Consultants wil be responsible for the required coordination of his activities
with local Governmental and non-Governmental organizations active in the field of environmental
protection in Sierra Leone, particularly with the National Environmental Committee established
by Cabinet Decree in May, 1990 in regard to environmental protection policy approved by the
Government of Sierra Leone.



- 101 -
ANNEX"
Page 4 of 6
In coordination with the Environmental Protection Section of the Ministry of Lands,
Housing and Environment, the Consultant will establish an office to get the views of people in
regard to the project construction or operation. These views shall be taken into account in a
mitigation plan to be prepared by the Consultant, if required.
5.          REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
5.1   Preliminary reports
The Consultants will submit at least two progress reports to the Government of
Sierra Leone. These shall include not only a summary of their activities, but also a discussion of
their findings with particular reference to the most relevant issues.
S.2   Final report
Towards the conclusion of their assignment, the Consultants shall submit a draft
final report and, on the basis of the comments received on this report, shall proceed to prepare
the final report. The report should be concise and limited to significant environmental issues. The
detail and sophistication of analysis should be commensurate with the potential impacts. The target
audience will be the Government of Sierra Leone, the project designers, the implementing
agencies and the staff of international financing institutions.
The draft final report should include:
t)     Executive summary:  Concise discussion of significant findings and
recommended actions.
ii)    Policy,  legal  and  administrative  framework  within  which
the environmental assessment was prepared. The environmental
requirements of any co-financiers should be explained.
iii)              Project description in a geographic, ecological, social, and temporal con-
text, including any off-site investments that may be required for the project (i.e., access roads,
power plants, water supply, construction camps, and product and storage facilities).
iv)     Baseline data:    Dimensions of the study area and description of
relevant physical, biological and socio-economic conditions, including any changes anticipated
before the project commences. Current and proposed development activities within the project area
should also be taken into account.
v)     Environmental Impacts:  The positive and negative impacts likely to
result from the proposed project should be identified and assessed. Mitigation n.easures and the
residual impacts than cannot be mitigated should be identified. Opportunities for environmental
enhancement should be explored. The extent and quality of available data, key data gaps, and



- 102 -
AN-NEX-4-9
Page 5 of 6
uncertainties associated with predictions should be identified/estimated. Topics that do not require
further attention should be specified.
vi)     Analysis of alternatives:  Proposed investment design, site, technology,
and operational alternatives should be compared systematically in terms of their potential environ-
mental impacts; capital and recurrent costs; suitability under local conditions; and institutional,
training and monitoring requirements. To the extent possible, for each of the alternatives, the envi-
ronmental costs and benefits shou'd be quantified, and economic values attached where feasible.
vii)     Mitigation plan:   Feasible and cost-effective measures which may reduce
potentially significant adverse environmental impacts to acceptable leve!s should be proposed, and
the potential environmental impacts, capital and recurrent costs, and institutional and training
requirements of those measures estimatf i. The plan should provide details on proposed work
programs and schedules, to ensure that the proposed environmental actions are in phase with
engineering activities. The plan should consider compensatory measures if mitigation measures
are not feasible or cost-effective.
viii)     Environmental management and training:  The existence, role, and
capability of environmental units at the on-site, agency, and ministry level should be assessed, and
recommendations made concerning the establishment and/or expansion of such units, and the
training of staff, to the point that the environmental assessment recommendations can be
implemented.
4X)     Monitoring plan regarding environmental impacts and performance. The
plan should specify the type of monitoring, who would do it, how much it would cost, and what
other inputs (i.e., training) are necessary.
Appendices:
i)     List of preparers of the environmental assessment - individuals and orga-
nizations.
it)     References - written materials used in study preparation. This is specially
important given the large amount of unpublished documentation often used.
iii)    Record of Inter-agency meetings - including list of both invitees and
atendees. Where the views of affected groups and local non-Governmental organizations were ob-
tained by other means, these should be specified.



- 103 -
AbINE3:42
Page 6 of 6
5.3   Outline for Environmental Assessment Summary
The main purpose of the Summary should be to highlight the key environmental
impacts and proposed solutions. Other relevant aspects of what the Environmental Assessment
covered may be listed so that outside reviewers are not left with the impression that issues of
special interest to them have been ignored. In this manner the Summary can be kept to ten pages
plus illustrations.
It is suggested that the Summary could contain:
a) ImrodutiQn: describing the key parties, including cofinanciers, and the policy, legal and
admir,istrative framework involved. Important general findings or recommendations may also be
incluled, as appropriate to borrowing dountries;
b) Pru ict description: listing project components, briefly describing those with significant
(adverse) environmental or social effects and providing possible implementation schedules. The
text of this section should be kept to a minimum;
c) Baseline data: describing concisely the area resources, habitats and people likely to be affected
significantly and identifying information availability or gaps, as well as possible fiuture tr. as with
and without the project;
d) Impacts: summarizing those anticipated to be major (either adverse or beneficial) with other
effects listed to the extent appropriate. Wherever possible the relative scale of the environmental
or human impact should be provided and care taken to outline the rationale by which predictions
have been made. This section is vital and should be given appropriate space;
e) Analysis of alternatives: describing alternatives (technologies, sites, designs, operations and
no-action) and the rationale for the chosen option;
t) Mitigation plans: noting compensation measures, cost estimates and residual impacts that
cannot be mitigated. Where no alternatives exist the mitigation section may be the most important
end extensive of the Summary. Particular attention should be paid to matters involving, for
instance, resettlement;
g) Monitoring and evaluation: identifying areas where project implementation will require future
tracking of environmental performance and possible problems;
h) Institutional needs: citing arrangements for mitigation and monitoring, with training, staffing
and organizational, policy or legal strengthening; and
i) Public garticipatiQn: indicating how meanirigful consultation with the affected groups and local
non-governmentals was conducted and the outcome.



SIERRA LEONE
NATIONAL POWER AUTHORITY
POGER SYSTEN REHABILITATION PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENTS
(Nillions Of Current U.S. Dollars)
----ACTUAL----------   --------ESTIMATE--------- ---------------------PROJECTION --------------------
Fiscal Year Ending March 31          1987     1988     1989      1990    1991      1992      1993    1994    1995       1996    1997    1998
Energy Sales (GWh)                    67.0     57.0      55.3    52.9    44. 1  14.5    57.5    87.3   122.9   130.0   138.9   146.O
Seles Increase (X)                     3.4    -14.9      -3.0    -4.3    -16.6    -67.1    296.6    51.8    40.8          5.8      6.8      5.1
Average Exchange Rate LeIUSS          32.5     30.2      56.4    115.2   150.0    370.0    420.0   490.0   540.0   550.0   565.0   580.0
Average Tariff/kWh In US Cents /a      5.4     14.4       8.7      5.7    10.8       17.4    17.1    22.2    22.2    23.5         26.0    33.4
Operating Revenue                      3.6      8.2       4.8      3.0      4.8       2.5      9.9     19.4    27.3    30.6    36.1        48.7
Operating Expenses
................
Fuet /b                                1.5      3.7       2.0      2.3      4.1       1.4      6.1      8.4      9.9    10.5       2.0      2.0
Labor                                  0.1      0.4       0.6      0.3      0.4       0.4      0.6      0.7      0.9      1.1      1.4      1.7
Maintenance                            0.1      0.1       0.2      0.1      0.2       0.1      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      6.3      6.6
Provision For Bad Debts                0.1      0.0       0.3      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1
Administretion and Other               0.8      1.6       1.1      0.6      1.3       1.4      1.5      1.7      1.9      2.1      2.3      2.5
oWapciation                            0.1      0.1       0.2      0.8      1.2       2.5      2.8      3.3      4.5      5.8      7.2     10.3
Amortiz. of Deferred Charges                                                                                                       0.9      0.9
......   ...... .  ........  ............ .. ... .. ......... ..... .. ....... ... ........ ..... ... ..... ..... ................ 
total Operating Expenses               2.7      5.9       4.4      4.2      7.3       5.9    11.6    14.7    17.8    20.1         20.2    24.1
....    ........  ........    ........ ........  ........    ........  ........  ........   ...
Operating Income (Loss)                0.9      2.3       0.4     -1.2    -2.5       -3.4     -1.7      4.7      9.5     10.5     15.9    24.6
....... .  .. ......  ....  .   ....    ......... ........... .....  ..........    .... .....  ...........  .......... .... ..... . ........ .................. .... 
Total Interest                         0.7      0.5       0.7      0.4      0.1       0.1      0.4      1.6      3.9      5.7      7.1      7.7
Less: Interest During Construction    0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.1      0.4      1.6      3.9      4.5      0.0      0.0
.......... .. .......... ........... ... ......... ..... ... ........  ........ ............. ............. ... ....  ... ....... ......  ....
Interest Charged to Operation          0.7      0.5       0.7      0.4      0.1       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.2      7.1      7.7
Exchange Losses(Profit)               10.7     -5.3       1.4      2.7      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Othe- Income                           0.1      0.1       0.1      0.0      0.2       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Income (Loss) Before Subsidy/Taxes   -10.4      7.2      -1.6     -4.2    -2.4       -3.4     -1.7      4.7      9.5      9.3      8.8     16.9
Saver;aent Subsidy                     0.3      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
.....   ...   ......  ...       ...  ....  ...   ...  ....  ... ......    . ....   ....    ..   ...  ;^-   --   -----
Income (Loss) Before Taxes           -10.1      7.2      -1.6     -4.2    -2.4       -3.4     -1.7      4.7      9.5      9.3      8.8     16.9
Taxes /c                                                                              0.1      0.3      2.1      4.3      4.2      4.0      7.6
Inco.... ----- -- ---- ..   -- ........ (Ls).ferTxe . 1. . .    . . . . ... .....1.......  ........ ...... .. ........
Inet    (LOSs) After Taxes           -10.1      7.2      -1.6      4.2    -2.4        3.5    -2.0       2.6      5.2      5.1      4.8      9.3
Net Irncome (Loss)                   -10.1      7.2      -1.6    -4.2    -2.4        -3.5     -2.0      2.6      5.2      S.1      4.8      9.3
Rate Base                              7.5      7.6      21.1     34.3    33.3       40.3     49.8    58.8    79.0   102.4   196.1   282.2
Rate of Return-After Tax (X) d/       15.5     30.5       1.9    -3.5    -7.5        -8.6     -4.0      4.5      6.6      6.2      6.1      6.0
Rate of Return-Before Tax (X) d/      15.5     30.5       1.9    -3.5      -7.5      -8.4     -3.4      8.0    12.0      10.3      8.1      8.7
Operating Ratio (X)                   70.0     71.7      91.3    138.6   152.8    233.9    117.6    75.9    65.2    65.7    56.0    49.4
a/ FY93 tariff represents 1st half tariff at 80.153/kwh and a proposed tariff increase to S.191/kWh effective October 1, 1992. t.
b/ Fuel expense reduction in FY97 is due to commissioning of BumbLma Hydro Project.
c/ Taxes are instituted effective April 1. 1991
AF4IE/NA
28-Nar-92 12:01 PM



SIERRA LEOME
HTIOHAL PER AUTMORITY
PFwR SYSTEP REHbRii;ATO"N PROWECT
... ................................
BALWi1E SHlEETS
(Milttfos Of Current U.S. Dollars)
Ao-3---...ACTUAL----------   ----*-- ESTIMTE.---------  --------------------PROJECT.aION. .              -------------
As of Mterck 31                          1987      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992       1993      1994      199S      1996      1997      199
..............                         .. ..... ............ ........   ....... ......... ........  .................... ........... ................ .......................... ............................
AS6ETS
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets in Service at                11.7      11.9       39.0      39.3      39.3       57.4      63.7      81.5    112.0    138.5    312.5    328.2
Lees: Acc4tnalted Oeprecition              4.2       4.3        4.5       5.2       6.8        9.4      12.2      15.S      20.0      25.8      33.0      43.3
Hot Fixed Assets In Operation              7.5       7.6       34.5      34.1      32.S       48.0      51.5      66.0      92.0    112.7    279.S    284.9
Work In Progres                            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.5       0.a        2.2      11.4      36.4      61.4      57.4       7.0       7.2
Total Net Fixed Assts                 7.5       7.6       34.S       34.6     33.3        50.2     6Z.9    102.4    153.4    170.1    286.5    292.1
Deferred charges                                                                               0.0       1.5       4.4       7.0       9.0       8.1       7.2
Current Assets
............
Cash end Sanks                             0.0       0.4        0.5       0.0       0.0        0.1       0.1       0.9       2.1       3.0       3.7       4.1
Conwmr  Recelvables                        1.6       5.S        4.3       1.6       2.0        1.6       1.7       1.9       1.8       2.0       2.4       3.2
Gove,nont Recelvabtes                      0.0       0.0        2.1       2.6       1.6        0.9       0.5       1.0       1.3       1.5       1.8       2.4
Other Receivables                          0.0       0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0         0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
Infentories                                0.3       0.3        0.1       0.9       1.1        0.3       2.9       3.0       3.5       3.9       4.1       9.2
..... .. ........ ........ ........ ........ ........  ........ .......... ..................... ........................... ...........................
Total Current Asset                    2.0      6.3         7.0       5.1       4.7        3.0       5.3       6.9       8.8      10.5     12.1       19.0
........ ............. .......  ........ ........ ........  .......... ........ ......... ......................... ..... .........................
TOTAL ASSETS                            9.5      13.9      41.S       39.7      38.0       53.2      69.7    113.7    169.2    189.6    306.7    318.3
_  -   _=    _--   ==                                                                                                                                              ,_=~=-~
EQUlTY AIND LIABILITIES
Equity
Paid-In Capital                            9.4       9.4       36.3      4S.1      45.1       45.8      47.1      52.6      55.3      56.0      56.0      56.0
Retained Earnmins (Accut  . Losses)    -22.1    -14.9         -16.5    *20.7    -23.1        -26.6    -28.6    -26.0    -20.8    -15.7    -10.9           -1.6
Revaluation Dy Dollar Conversion           8.6       7.9       11.1      11.0      11.3       11.3      11.3      11.3      11.3      11.3      11.3      11.3
Revaluation Reserve                                             0.0       0.0       0.0       15.0      19.1      21.9      25.1      27.5     41.3      46.8
Foreign Grants                                                                      0.0        0.9       2.9      11.0      16.9      18.0      18.0     18.0
:... ........ ........... ........ ........ ........   ........ .......... ..................... ........................... ...........................
Totat Equity                         -4.1        2.4       30.9     35.4      33.3       46.4      51.8      70.8      87.8      97.1    115.7    130.5
Long-Term Debt                             0.S      5.1        4.1       0.0       0.0        1.3      10.9      36.6      74.0      85.3    187.7    183.1
Less: Current Portfin                      2.0       1.1        0.7       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       4.6      6.0
Hat Long-Term Debt                    8.5       4.0         3.4       0.0      0.0         1.3      10.9     36.6      74.0      85.3    183.1    177.1
Covement Loan                              0.0       0.0        0.0       2.2       2.2        2.2       2.2       2.2       2.2       2.2       2.2       2.2
Eurrent LiabilitIes
Current Portion of L.T. Debt               2.0       1.1        0.7       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       4.6       6.0
Accounts  Payable b/                       3.0       6.2        5.3       1.2       1.4        2.1       3.0       2.9       3.1       2.7       1.1       2.2
Overdrft/Adtnces                           0.0       0.3        1.2       0.9       1.1        1.2       1.8       1.2       2.1       2.3       0.0       0.3
............ .................  ............. ................ ........ ......................  ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
Total Current Liabli1ties             5.1        7.5        7.2      2.1       2.5        3.3       4.8       4.1       5.2       5.0       5.7       8.5
TOTAL EQUITY AN  LIABILITIES           9.5       13.9      41.5      39.7      38.0       53.2      69.7    113.7    169.2    189.6    306.7    318.3
_~  -   023m              u arn _ z                           _ _ 3..   _            -                                                                   I
Current Ratio (tims)                       0.4       0.8        1.0       2.4       1.9        0.9       1.1       1.7       1.7       2.1      2.1        2.2
Debt As 2 of Debt+Equity                 193.2      62.5        9.9       5.9       6.2        ;.0      20.2      35.4      46.5     47.4      61.6      S7.9
Acccosmts Receivable As Equivatent
To Days Of tales * Conse_ rs Ct    401.8    610.0          814.5    481.8    381.9        578.8    159.0       90.0      60.0      60.0      60.0      60.0
* Goverent           0.0       0.0      265.2    521.9    203.7        217.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0
a/ Assets revalued in FM92.
bt Hot of Owvrrent reeivabAes in FW87-.. c/ Con_er Accmnts Receivable In excess of 90 dys in FM93 includes carry-over fin  last yr.
AF41EIMA                  The carryover ahoul8  be cleared by erd FY94.
28Nwf-g92 12:01 PN



SIEtRA LEUIE
TUTIOL L POSIES AITHRoIn
POSIE sYsTEll RERABitiTAii a PROJECT
FURS FLW  STAEIENlTS
(Millions Of Current U.S. Dolars)
----*- ACTU --AL----------   ------- -ESTIIUTE -             -           -^.--.-.--.-.-...PROJECTION- .....................
Fiscal Year Ending  1Rd  31              1987      1988     1989       190       1991      1992       1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
. .. .. .. .. .. .. . ... . ........  ........ ........ ....... .   . . ..... ._. ... . .. .. .....  . . ._.. . .. .....  ...... .....  .....  .....
SOURtS OF Ft0DS
............. ............
Internt   eneration Of FuWds
...... .........._...._.
oereting Ircm                              0.9       2.3        0.4      -1.2      -2.5       -3.4      -1.7      4.7       9.5      10.5      15.9      24.6
Depreciatfon                               0.1       0.1        0.2       0.8       1.2        2.5       2.8      3.3       4.S       5.8       7.2      10.3
Dzrtia. of Deferred Charges                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.9       0.9
.......    ....   .   .....   .     ...   ....  .... ....     .... :--   -------- ----      --    -      --        ---
Gross Internat Cash Generation             1.0       2.4        0.6     -0.4      -1.3       -0.9       1.1       8.0      14.0      16.3      24.0      35.8
Less: Debt Service
.. ....... ....
Debt Repapent                          2.0       1.1        0.7       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       4.6      6.0
Interest                               0.7       O.S        0.7       0.4       0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       1.2      7.1       7.7
Total Debt Service                    2.7       1.6         1.4      0.4       0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       1.2     11.7      13.7
Re&action (ine.) Uorking Capitat           0.4      -0.9       -0.6      -2.5       0.8        2.5     -0.8      -2.3      -0.8      -1.9      -S.S      -5.5
.~~~~~~~~-                - -  .   .     . .. . ....     .. ...   .   ........     ... ..   .     .....   .     ...-- ---
Met Intermat Cash Generation              -1.3      -0.1       -1.4     -3.3      -0.6         1.6      0.3       5.7      13.2      13.2       6.8      16.6
Other Income                               0.1       0.1        0.1       0.0       0.2        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Goerment Subsidy                           0.3       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
..       ... . ..    ..   . ....  - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - -  .......   -- - -      - - -    - - -     - - -
Subtotat                             -1.0      -0.1       -1.3      -3.3      -0.4        1.6       0.3       5.7      13.2      13.2      6.8      16.6
Oebt Conversion to Equity                  0.0       0.0        0.0      -3.7       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Gover.uant Equity                          0.0       0.0       26.9       8.9       0.0        0.7       1.3      5.5       2.8       0.7       0.0       0.0
Goverreunt Loan                            0.0       0.0        0.0      -2.2      0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Foreign Grants                                                                     0.0        0.9       2.0       8.1       5.9       1.1       0.0       0.0 
External Borrowings
Proposed Project                           0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      6.1      19.2       9.3       5.5       0.0       0.0
Other Borroings                            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        1.0      3.6       6.5      26.7       6.0    102.4        0.0
Total Borrowings                      0.0       0.0        0.0        0        0.0        10        9.7      25.7      36.0      11.5    1 2.4       0.0
Currency Adjustmnts                        1.0       0.1        1.3       0.7       0.4        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
TOTAL SOURCES                     0.0       0.0       26.9       0.3       0.0        4.2      13.3     4.9       57.8      26.5    109.2       16.6
_=        e ==   n  el==       C3=U=       ttte  eer=ee  ee==   ttttn=    ==-    ~                t ==e c=5       C. -=
APPLICATIONS OF FUNiDS
investmnts
.    .. . . .
Proposed Capitat Inestcents                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       7.8     31.3      16.6       5.2       0.0       0.0
Proposed Other Investments                 0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       1.5      2.8       2.6       2.1       0.0       0.0
Interest During Construction              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.2       1.0       2.0       1.4       0.0       0.0
Totat Proposed Project                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       9.5      35.1      21.2       8.7      0.0       0.0
Other Capitat Investents                   0.0       0.0       26.9       0.3      0.0         4.1      3.6       9.2      34.7      14.6    109.2       16.6
Interest During Construction              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.1       0.2       0.6       1.9       3.2       0.0       0.0
Total Other Investments               0.0       0.0       26.9       0.3       0.0        4.2       3.8       9.8     36.6       17.8    109.2      16.6
. . . .  ..  . .  .... .      -  - --  .   . ..  ..   . .   ..   . .  ..   . .  ..   . .  - - - -   - - - -   - - - -
TOTAL APPIICATIONS               0.0       0.0       26.9       0.3       0.0        4.2      13.3     44.9      57.8      26.5    109.2       16.6
Arwmt Debt Service
Coverage Ratio Inltuding
Stbsidy (tlme)                          0.5       1.5         0.4      0.0       0.0        0.0       2.8       5.0       3.6       2.8       2.1      2.6
Self-Finncing Ratio Inctuudlag
Subsdy (Z1) - Abmil                     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       38.1       2.3      12.7      22.8      49.8       6.2    100.0
- 3-Year Moing Avg.        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       27.4       0.0      14.7     30.7      20.5      10.0      26.4
AF4IEiA
28-lar-92 12:01 FM



- 107 -
Anne 5:4
Page 1 of 4
SIEBRRA L,EONE
Power Sector Rehabilitation Projt
Assumtig=on  r Financial Statement
A.   Geeral
1.         The financial projections were prepared in current US Dollars. International inflation
rates assumed, are as follows:
Estimated Annual
EX ln  rae (%)
93                    1.9%
94                    3.9%
95                    4.9%
96                    4.2%
97                    3.6%
98                    4.6%
2.         'he following average exchange rates are used:
EX                    Le/US$1
90                    115.2
91                    150.0
92                    370.0
93                    420.0
94                    490.0
95                    540.0
96                    550.0
97                    565.0
98                    580.0
B.   IcMe Staement
3.         Projected sales are based on the forecast in the Energy Assessment Report as
discussed in para 2.11 and shown in Annex 5-6.
4.         Operating revenue was Computed to satisfy NPA's financing requiremenu over the
period of FY93-98 as per para 5.10.



_ 108 -
Annex 5-4
Page 2 of 4
S.         Operating Expenses:
(a)  Fuel costs. The following petroleum product prices have been assumed for NPA:
US$/metic ton 
FY93       FY94       EY         FY96       FY97       PY98
Diesel Oil      473.14     487.34     501.96     517.01      532.52     548.50
Fuel Oil (MFO)   177.98     183.32     188.82     194.49     200.32     206.33
Lubricant Oil    577.50    593.67     619.20     645.82      673.59     702.56
,)  Labo: Costs take into account staff reduction and attrition and annual increases in
salaries and wages of between 25-40% per year and the expected devaluation of the
currencies.
(c)  Maintenac: estimated at US$0.5 million for FY93-96 and at 2% of gross revalued
fixed assets at the end of each period for FY97-98.
(d)  Provision for Bad Debts: There are plans for the NPA to implement an effective
and efficient collection procedures. Therefore, Provision for bad debt for FY93-98
was assumed to be at the same level as in FY92 in US Dollar terms.
(e)  Administrative Expenses are expected to increase by 10% in real terms every year in
FY93-98.
(1)   Depreciado: was computed at the average rate of 4.6% of average revalued gross
fixed assets through FY96. In FY97 when Bumbuna Hydro Project is expected to
be commissioned, the average annual depreciation rate is reduced to 3.2%.
C.   Balance Sheets and Funds Flow Statements:
6.         Capital Expenditures: NPA's investment program at this time consists of the
proposed project and the AfDB portion of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project. The remainer of
the Bumbuna project costs is brought into NPA accounts as of FY97. The financial statements,
would thus reflect the full effect of Bumbuna on NPA accounts should it be transferred to the
utility.
7.        ft&ation: NPA has not yet finalized the revaluation of its fixed assets but under
the proposed project it will carry out a comprehensive revaluation of its assets effective from
April 1, 1991 (FY92). In the meantime a provisional revaluation of assets is reflected in the
FY92 accounts. The revaluation is based on the actual result of the land and building revaluation
carried out by an outside firm which had based its work on the market values prevailing in Sierra
Leone; and tentative revaluation of machinery and equipment which in NPA estimates would
increase the values of -.ich properities by a factor of 2.5. The following table shows details for
the fixed asset accounts:



- 109 -
Annex 54
Page 3 of 4
---(SS Million)
PY9      E.YI3    F19        FY95     PY96      PY97      PY98
Gxss~~~~~~~~~~~E                                               m i   ffW           m
rosas Fixed Assets in Cporaiona:
open. Balanc                       39.3     57.4      63.7       81.5   112.0    138.5    312.5
Additions                           3.0      3.2      15.6       25.9    29.8    161.1        2.1
Subtotal                           42.2     60.7      79.3      107.4   132.8    299.7    314.6
Revaluation                        14.0      0.7       0.4        0.6     0.7       0.7       0.7
Closing Baune                      57.4     63.7      81.5      112.0   138.5    312.5    328.2
Average Grosa Fixed
Asets in Opem.                   48.4      60.6      72.6      96.8   125.3    225.3    320.4
Accmulated Derciation:
Opening Balance                     6.4      9.4      12.2       15.5    20.0      25.8      33.0
DEprea. Charge                      1.9      2.1       2.7        3.7      5.0      6.7       9.7
Subtotal                            8.3      11.5     14.8       19.3    25.0      32.5      42.7
Revaluation                         0.6      0.7       0.7        0.7      0.8      0.5       0.6
Closing Eblance                     9.4      12.2     15.5       20.0    25.8      33.0      43.3
Avg. Accumu. Depro.                 7.9     10.8      13.9       17.8    22.9      29.4      38.1
Net Fixed Assea in Opeation
Opening Blance                     32.9     48.1      51.5       66.0    92.0    112.8    279.5
Closing Balance                    48.1      51.5     66.0       92.0   112.8    279.5    284.9
Average                            40.5     49.8      58.7       79.0   102.4    196.2    282.2
8.              Deferred charges represent the provision for the technical assistance and training
Of US$9.0 million equivalent. Such charges are amortized in ten equal annual installments of
US$0.9 million equivalent each starting in FY97.
9.              Borrowings for the proposed project include the proposed IDA credit and related
cofinancing. The following schedule, is prepared on the basis of current lending terms and
tentative interests expressed by the financiers participating in the project:
Aounwt       intest       CGrae                Repaymnnt
(EJ$M MSlon) Rate M(i       eno ean            Period (Yeams)
DA (onldent to NPA)                 21.00        7.73               5                    15
European Investmen Bank              19.14       6.00               6                    14
European Eoon. Conmm. (Grant) WJ     10.00       0.00               0                    0
Govementu of Japan (Grant) /         7.09        0.00
Tota                                57.23
I     GeaIts to Governen  and assumed as equity contributions of Government to NPA.
10.          Working Cioital
(a)   Cash and Bank: The cash and banks item was computed on the basis of
requirements for cash operating expenses and local construction expenditures.
(b)   Receivables: These have been analyzed as between Government and others.
Receivables from Government (60% of sales) were estimated at 30 days billing
starting FY93 on the basis of the assumed implementation of the financial



- 110 -
Annex 5-4
Page 4 of 4
restructuring program and an improved payment procedure agreed with the
Government. Receivables from other consumers (40% of sales), were estimated to
decrease to 159 days billing by end FY93 (this reflects the uncollected 50% of
accumulated receivables or US$0.8 million by end FY93 plus receivable for that
year of 90 days of billing). 'he non-Govennment receivables are expected to decline
to 90 days billing by FY94, and 60 days by end FY95 and thereafter as a result of
planned improvement in billing and collection.
(c)      1       were esdmated at 30 days fuel and 90 days lubricants consumption plus
3% of year-end gross revalued fixed assets for materials.
(d)  Acon Pablo was estmated at 4 months fuel and lubricant consumption and
other cash operating expenses in FY93 and was assumed to gradually decrease to 2
months by FY98.



-  1 1-                                                      ANNEX 5-S
SIERRA LEONE
NATIONAL POE" AUTNIpITY
HISTORY OF EECTRItCITY TARIFfS
Tariff                   Tariff                  Tariff
As of I/                 As of 7/1/90            as of 8/1/91
Tariff 1  -   Domtic
0-50  units                    -    Le3.00 per unit           Le6 per unit            Le23    per unit
51-200 units                   -    Le4.50  N    u            Le9  a      a           Le34     O    II
Above 200 units                -    Le6.50  u                 Le13 a1    u            LeSO     N    11
Yinimum Charge                 -    Le32.00 " month           Le64 " month            Le250    1 month
Tariff 2       Small Commercial/lndustrial
0-50  units                    -    Le6.50 per unit           Lel3 per unit           Le5O     per unit
51-200 units                        Le7.00  a    N            Le14 t      N           Le63           t o
Above 200 units                -    Le10.00 0    n            Le20 a      a           Le76         to
Ninimum Charge                 -    Le40.00 a month           Le80 a month            Le300     N month
Tariff 3       Educationat institutions and
Hosni tals
All Units                      -    Le4.00 per unit           Le8 per unit            LeS1    per unit
Ninimun Charge                 -    Lel0O.00" month           Le200   month           Le760       month
Tariff 3A -   Churches and Mosques
All Units                           Le6.00 per unit           Lel2 per unit           Le46  per unit
Mininun Charge                 -    LelOO.00 per month        Le2OO 0  month          Le760    month
Tariff 4  -   Larre Coercialt/industrial
All Units                      -    Le14.00 per unit          Le28 per unit           LelO6    per unit
Minimum Charge                      Le6000 per unit           Lel2,000 1 month        Le45,600  " month
Tariff 5  -   Street liahtina
All Units                      -    Le7.60 per unit           Le14.32 per unit        Le55    per unit
Ninimun Charge                        -Le2000 u month                                 Le7,500  1 month
Tariff 6  -   Te"Porary Sumoties
Alt Units                      -    Le12.0C per unit          Le24 per unit           Le92   per unit
Ninimum Charge                 -    Le400.00 per month        Le800 u month           Le5,000  " month
Tariff 7  -   Weldina
All Units                      -    Le12.00 per unit          Le24 per unit           Le24  per unit
Minimum Charge                 -    -                         Le2.000 H month         Le2,000 u month
Tariffs 4 & 7
KW demand excess of 15KW                      -    Le3O per KW                Le6O per KW            Le300 per kw
Consumer operating at power factor less       -    Le15 per KVARh            Le30 per KVARH          Le30 per KVARH
than 0.8 LAG



- 112 -                                  ANNE 5-6
SIERRA LEONE - POWErF SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
NPA Generation and Sales In GWh. FY80 - FY98
Annual
Western Area System                 Provinces                     Total               Sales
FY Generat.  Losses   Sales   Generat.  Losses   Sales    Generat.  Losses   Sales    Growth
80    116.5     27%/   85.0        28.9      41%    17.0        145.4     30%   102.0
81    131.2     26%    97.0        29.8      40%    18.0        161.0     29%   115.0        11%
82    133.5     27%    98.1        24.9      40%    14.9        158.4     29%   113.0        -2%
83    130.7     25%    98.0        26.4      41%    15.0        156.1     28%    113.0        0°h
84    119.3     27%    87.1        26.7      41%    15.8        146.0     30%   102.9       -10%
85    128.4     --      -          --       --       --          --       --     117.0       12°h
86     69.4    --       --         --       --                                    64.8      -81%
87     88.7    --       --         --       --       --          --       --      67.3        4%
88     68.4    --       --         --       --       --          --       --      45.2      -49°AI
89     67.0    --       --         --       --       --          --       --      49.4        9%
90     64.0     35%    41.6        18.1      38%    11.3        82.1      36%    52.9         7%
91    52.7      35%    34.2        15.3      35%      9.9        68.0     35%    44.1       -20%
92     20.7     35%    13.5         1.5      33%      1.0        22.2     35%     14.5    -204%
93     77.3     34%    51.0        10.0      35%     6.5        87.3      34%    57.5        75%
94    117.2     31%    80.8        10.0      35%     6.5        127.2     31%    87.3        34%
95    159.5     27%   116.4        10.0      35%     6.5        169.5     27%    122.9       29%
96    166.9     26%   123.5        10.0      35%     6.5        176.9     27%   130.0         5%
97    176.5     25%   132.4        10.0      35%     6.5        186.5     26%    138.9        6%
98    186.0     25%   139.5        10.0      35%     6.5        196.0     26%   148.0         5%
FY80-91: Actuals; FY92. Estimation; FY93-98: Projections.
The provincial generation and sales exclude Bo/Kenema starting from FY92.
AF4lEffable3l
01/27/92
08:24 PM



- 113-                                ANNE-
Page 1 of 4
Sl   ENE POWER SICTOR REHABILITATIONPpROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.         The cost stream of the benefit-cost analysis comprises the following elements: the
capital investment; operation and maintenance; management contract; and fuel for power
generation, The capital investment component is US$45.8 million in real 1991 prices and
includes spare parts, engineering cost of the project, as well as 15 percent physical contingency.
The cost of management contract is estimated at US$4.5 million, and along with the capital
investment, is spread over the FY93-FY96 period as indicated in the attached benefit-cost analysis
table (Table 1). The incremental fuel consumed is the difference between the consumption "with"
and 'without project" cases. The economic cost of fuel oil is the import value or the cif price
which is estimated by taking the fo.b. Med. Price and adding $16/MT for freight and handling
charges. The economic cost of diesel oil is the cost of import and delivery to the power station
which is taken as landed cost (from the petroleum pricing formula in effect) minus all duties and
taxes. Fuel oil price is also exclusive of duties and taxes. The estimated fuel oil cost of 95 $/MT
and diesel cost of 241 $/MT used in the analysis are based on prices in November 1991 (time of
the re-appraisal mission) when world crude oil prices were around 19 $/barrel.
Benefits
2.         The main benefits of the proposed project that are included in the benefit stream of
the analysis are: (a) meeting the unserved demand for electricity, (b) reduction in the system
technical losses, and (c) cost saving from the reduction in autogeneration. The project's benefits
are considered over a 10-year period which is the minimum life of the rehabilitated system.
3.         The incremental demand served from the NPA system is taken as the difference
between the projected energy sales that are possible with the rehabilitation project and the sales
that could continue without the project. Without the rehabilitation proposed under the project,
sales are estimated to gradually reach zero within two years due to the complete breakdown of the
K ngtom power station (Sulzer Unit No. 4 would be out of service by end-1992 and all KHD
generators would be out of service by end-1993). The FY98 is taken as the first when hydro
power could become available from Bumbuna. This implies only a one-year delay in
commissioning of Bumbuna as originally envisaged, which is quite likely to happen. The benefit
of incremental demand served is cdculated by valuing the incremental consumption at the
consumers' willingness to pay for electricity estimated to be at least equal to the existing average
tariff of Le64.35/kWh o; USC14.3/kWh at the parallel exchange rate of 450 Le/US$. However,
starting in FY98, this consumers' willingness to pay for the very small amount of thermal
generation (9 GWhlyear), is ass'imed to be at least 1.5 times the average tariff indicating the high
value of electricity where thermal power from Kingtom power plant will be required for peak
power or to completely substitute for hydropower from Bumbuna, while the single unit at
Bumbuna is down for maintenance or repair. Improvements in efficiency of power generation
and distribution system is assumed to reduce technical losses from 15 percent to 10 percent of
generation to be achieved by the end of FY95. The reduction in technical losses reduces the
generation that is required to serve the demand which is reflected in the analysis as savings in fuel



- 114 -                                ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 4
consumption and costs. This, however, does not capture the additional benefits incurred from
deferring required in'-  ient in system capacity for meeting the peak demand. The reduction in
auto generation is valuea at US04.4/kWh which is the difference between the economic cost of
fuel (diesel) for auto generation and the economic cost of fuel (mostly fuel oil with some diesel)
for power generation by NPA reduced by 13 percent for technical losses in NPA's system. Fuel
cost for power generation is calculated at USc2.9/kWh from figures in the benefit cost analysis
presented in Table 1. The cost of fuel for autogeneration is estimated at about USc8/kWh as
discussed below.
Cost of Autogeneration
4.         As discussed in Chapter 2, in the Western Area, there is a considerable amount of
privately owned installed capacity (about 40 MW) generating power (about 60 or more
GWh/year) to meet the demand for electricity that could not be supplied by NPA. The available
data on autogeneration is not very accurate. The cost data and technical parameters for a range of
sizes of diesel and gasoline generating sets are presented in Table 2 at the end of this annex.
The fuel cost ranges between USc7.0 to USc9.3/kWh, for diesel generators, and USCIOIkWh for
smaller gasoline generators. (3i -en the lack of accurate breakdown between the various generator
sizes, an average of USC8/kWh is taken for fuel cost. The financial cost of autogeneration is
estimated by taking the pump price of the fuels (which includes taxes), and by adding 20 percent
to the cif price of the generators itself, which are both rather conservative assumptions given the
scarcity of fuel supplies and existence of 40 percent import duty on generator sets. The financial
cost of autogeneration ranges from USC18 to about USc56/kWh. Fuel cost ranges from USC15 to
USc2l/kWh.
Economic Rate of Retum
5.         In the absence of a long-term least cost power sector development program (which is
to be prepared under the Master Plan Study), the Internal Economic Rate of Return (ERR) has
been calculated on the basis of only the investment proposed under the project. The project has a
relatively good IERR of 28.2 percent, taking into account the quantifiable benefits of the project
as indicated in the above paragraphs. Tne IERR is robust as indicated by calculating its
sensitivity with respect to key parameters. Sensitivity of the base IERR to various parameters is
as follows. If the consumers' willingness to pay is only 10 percent more than the average tariff
used in the analysis, the IERR would be increased to 38.3 percent. If the consumers' willingness
to pay for the demand served from thermal generation in FY98 and beyond is taken to be equal to
the average tariff (as assumed for previous years in the base case), the [ERR is reduced to 26.4
percent. A 20-percent increase in the fuel prices would reduce the base [ERR to 22.8 percent. A
10-percent increase in the investment cost of the project, which already includes a 15 percent
physical contingency, would reduce the IERR to 21 percent. A one-year delay in the
commissioning of Bumbuna beyond what is assumed in the base case would increase the [ERR to
about 37 percent.



ANNEX &l
- 115 -                                             Page 3 of4
SIERRA LEONE POWER SECrOR REHADIL=ATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Fiwal Year                    1993       1994   199S   1996    1997   1998   1999 2000-2006
Costs (USS 000):
Capital Invetmenta          60S4.7   23960.2 12512.0  3300.5    0.0    0.0    0.0            0.0
Fixed O and M Cost b          60.5      300.2  425.3  4S8.3  458.3   114.6  114.6          114.6
Management Contract          360.0    1350.0  1440.0  1350.0    0.0    0.0    0.0            0.0
Incremental Fuel Costs
Fuel Oil /c             91.9    2328.S  3S68.7  3689.3  3689.3  215.5  260.6        260.6
Diesel Id               22.6     493.2  631.1  669.1  669.1   41.9   41.9            41.9
Lib Oil /c               7.9      183.8  160.9  167.1   167.1   10.S   10.S           10.5
Total Incremental Cost      6597.7   28615.9 18737.9  9634.3  4983.8  382.4  382.4         382.4
Bnefts:
reneration Available (GWh):
With (Ae Project           77.3      117.2  159.S  166.9  166.9   10.0   10.0            10.0
Without the Projcwt If     73.7       23.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0            0.0
Demand Served (GWh):
With the Project Ig        65.7      102.0  143.6  150.2  150.2    9.0    9.0            9.0
Without the Project /h     62.6       19.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0
Increments                  3.1       82.1   143.6  150.2  150.2    9.0    9.0           9.0
Value of Incremetal
Demand Served (USS 000)/i    437.6   11736.6 20S27.7 21480.0 21480.0  1930.5  1930.5      1930.S
Autogeneration (GWh):
with the Projet            60.0       3S.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0            0.0
Without the Project /j     60.0       60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0    0.0    0.0            0.0
Increments                  0.0       24.6   60.0   60.0   60.0    0.0    0.0            0.0
Net Value of Fuel saved by
Reducing Autogen.(USS 000) /k    0.0    1086.0  2648.8  2648.8  2648.8    0.0    0.0        0.0
Net Benefits (USS 000)    -6160.2  -IS793.3  4438.6 14494.6 1914S.1  IS48.1  IS48.1   IS48.1
IERK                      28.2%
Footnotes:
a/ Including engineering studies, spare parts and 1S% physical contingency
b/ At I % of cumulative Investment cost
c/ At import parity price (cef) of 9S USS/MT
d/ Atlmport prity price (cif) of 241 US$/MT
e/ At import prity price (cifl of 550 USS/MT
f/ Sulzer #4 out by end CY92 JCHDs aU out by end CY93
g/ WVttech t al losses of 15% in FY93, 13% in 94, 10% in 95 and beyond
h/ With technicd losses of IS% in FY93
i/ At the consumers' willingness to pay equivalent to average tariff of USC 14.3/kWh through FY96,
which is increased by a factor of 1.5 from FY98
Y Utilizing the existing capacity of 40 MW
k/ Valued at USC .4/kWh which is the differnace in fuel cost of autogeation (USC 8/kWh) and demand
served by NPA (USC 2.91kWh) reduced by 13% for techi losses
AF4EIECON3                                                                              02/18/92
06:15 PM



ANNEX 6-1
- 116 -                              Page 4 of 4
SIERRA LEONE POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE 2: COST OF ELECTRICITY FROM PRIVATELY INSTALLED GENERATORS
Technical Parameters:
Generator Size (kVA)                 5.0      12.5       50.0     300.0     750.0
Typical Power Factor                 0.8       0.8        0.8       0.8       0.8
Maximum Output (kW)                  4.0      10.0      40.0      240.0     600.0
RPM                               1500.0    1500.0    1500.0    1500.0    1500.0
Type of Fuel                     Gasoline    Diesel    Diesel    Diesel    Diesel
Typical Plant Factor (%)            25.0      25.0       25.0      25.0      25.0
Annual Energy Production (MWh)       8.8      21.9       87.6     525.6    1314.0
Useful Life (Years)                  5.0       5.0       7.0        8.0      10.0
Fuel Consumption (liters/kWh)       0.47      0.45      0.42       0.38      0.34
Economic Cost of Fuels:
Fuel Cost (US$/MT) /a              291.3     241.2     241.2      241.2     241.2
Fuel Cost (Le/IG)                  436.9     424.0     424.0      424.0     424.0
Fuel Cost per kWh (USC/KWh)         10.0       9.3        8.7       7.9       7.0
Financial Costs:
Cdpital Cost, cif+i-tax (US$)       8640     11760     17520     52800    121200
Capital Annuity Factor at 12%      0.277     0.277      0.219     0.201     0.177
Annual capital Cost (US$)         2393.3    3257.5    3836.9   10612.8   21452.4
Capital Cost per kWh (USC/kWh)      27.3      14.9       4.4        2.0       1.6
Fixed+Var. O&M per kWh(USC/kW        8.4       5.3        2.2       1.3       1.2
Fuel Cost, pump prices (Le/IG)     900.0     890.0      890.0     890.0     890.0
Fuel Cost per kWh (USC/KWh)         20.7      19.6       18.3      16.5      14.8
Total Cost per kWh (USC/kWh)        56.4      39.8       24.9      19.9      17.6
a/ cif pric plus handeling charges
Parallel exchange rate used:       450.0 Le/US$
AF4IE/AUTO21
03/06/92
01:55 PM



- 117 -                               ANNgS 6-2
SIERRA LEONE POER SEITOR REHILITATION PROJEC-T
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Detailed project scope and cost estimates.
2.   National Power Authority's 1982 Act.



MAURITANIA                                                                                                                    j IBRD 222
SENEGAL    \          -       r A    G            :     J    z                                                  SIERRA LEONE
THE GAMSBIAZ=   ) -                 r                                                              POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION
E155AU    G UI|NEA 2   rr-t$^                   W-<c.tTPROJECT
S rR A                                                                                               POtOntlOl hydroeic-tris sites
SitRRA   tv.   core jvT;       I' t                       .G  I                                     Mw    Potential maximum  installed
LEONE           -     / AI         i                   a                                                  capacity in megematte
GHANAI           I            a +   G' mmuia'I                                          A    NPA dieselge<nerating plants
LISREIA                 Ix~'swrAoE
TOG  BElN IN                                                                      MnwTIQtS h Prixte therm-0,
*     H yssoeneintris p l;ets
Existing troxmitiwo  line,
_.                /-   -   -   -  -  -   -  -  -                 Projected trenem-ssioc lines
13'                                                    KUELSE
_ .  _-    -Y.SKMW   KAMBATIM8 OO
'f36 1Mw         0oib 
G U IN EA                              C 
TENDATA
504)a    Aw K                       KABALA
23.6Mw                        A
'KM-AkeA                                                                G  U  I N    E  A
'KOMOIA                              N
S.-                                                                     256MW    %BANGA-KARAFAIA               K
A                                                                                                             -
Z   [KAMSIA                                Pndmba                  8UMjRUNA
M Rikp- ao MANGE                                                                                                                    9
AA..b.1 .0    "O'o   ,                    AAKw 
PORt LOKC93                         /ETMAI
A *    -           -      '               NoMAGBULAKA/
Ivn3z0             ROKON                                                            ENKONmGx  3                  FADU KBENN
OP.P.l                                                                   B SENK3NpORu     Y,nef      a°
FREETOWN  -                 //W
Hx\sosnigs              /             Yxn.bxo0e                                                                              ,    V     l A0?'   K dv 
GUMA        v;_/                                                                                                        NYANDEHUN            -
WotTrloo                                   1IMW'u_ 'A   JA         )
T.....              2I                              0!-o               OA           t
8Kr   oYs° 0                    NJolo                              GOMA  0PxoxUmo -
MOYAMRA                    N                                      t
8-                                              Sieromee-   o 0Mex                          LEVUMA    \P- ,-ks
Senbeh-r        Mokange                      A   BO           \2m                       
G0    ` do-a                 0
Sieromsce-                  OAMBOANS31                                            A 
Gb-qbhorxk                        aumZ     i   LAOM                   K mx  AEMA
GodecA0 ~33MW                                                  KNM 
SalIe.,rra     GANDORNUN
16             T. F            75tila   752MW  EARAKA
sierom.se -                       01 eK-bd       375MW
Die601sel)                 enA O       0  x                   0
BONTHEo                  GMoExs um uyo             080rdxiso.o                             vJ  L  I B  E  R  I A
0-
:                To.mobsm   AO                                5
0Z_,        RIVER
PROJECT
Fo-rx   f'a
KILOMETERS 0         20      *0       oG       80      l0G                                      TxMxi.o                      Niolr      i
MILES G              0            A               CSxiaB    PrAsi-c nepitels 
International boundaries
__   1V3                                                             - 2



