CREDIT NUMBER 2356 SL
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2356 SL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        1             f   , 1992 between the
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the A3sociation to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out with the Borrower's
assistance by the National Power Authority (NPA), a statutory
corporation established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(C)   the Borrower will, as part of such assistance, make
available to NPA the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Export-Import
Bank of Japan, Japan Exim, a grant (the Japan Exim Grant) in an
amount equivalent to $7,090,000 to assist in financing Part A of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be
entered into between Japan Exim and the Borrower;
(E)   the Borrower intends to obtain from      the European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to about ECU 15,000,000 to assist in financing Part A of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered
into between EIB and the Borrower;
(F)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Commission of
the European Communitie, (EC) a grant (the EC Grant) in an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to assist in financing Parts B and C of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to
be entered into between EC and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; DefirAtions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NPA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NPA pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)   "NPA Act" means the National Power Authority Act, 1982
of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement; and
(e)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 13, 1987 and March
11, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,300,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2002 and ending April 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be twr percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice  the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the


﻿-5-
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause NPA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NPA
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NPA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Crcdit to
NPA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NPA, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association which shall include: (i) repayment of
principal in 20 years (including 5 years of grace); (ii) annual
interest at the prevailing rate payable by borrowers on loans made
by the Bank; and (iii) the assumption by NPA of any foreign exchange
risks on proceeds of the Credit relent to it.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿-6-
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance , use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by NPA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall increase its equity in NPA
by an amount equal to the total amount of import duties to be paid
by NPA on goods which it will import for purposes of the Project.
The Borrower and the Association presently estimate the said duties
to amount in the aggregate in 1992 prices to $10,233,000 equivalent.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall by December 31, 1993
through its Ministry of Labour, Energy and Power carry out a study
to consolidate all energy sector activities within one ministry. The
terms of reference of said study shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Association for its
review and comments the results of the said study; and (ii) carry
out the recommendations of the study in accordance with a time table
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. If the Borrower at any time decides to transfer
any hydro-electric power station to NPA, it shall consult and reach
agreement with the Association on the appropriate measures to ensure
that NPA's finacial viability is not adversely affected by such
transfer.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, as from April 1, 1993,
settle outstanding amounts owed to NPA no later than 30 days after
the billing date.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) by April 1, 1993 (A) carry out a
review of its debts to NPA in order to validate and reschedule, as
necessary, such debts, and (B) settle in full at least 50% of all of
its outstanding debts t-o NPA; and (ii) by October 1, 1993 settle in
full all the remaining outstanding amounts of such debts.
(c) The Borrower shall not, without the Association's
approval, carry out any investment project in the power sector


﻿-7-
exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent per year which is not included in an
investment program agreed by the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) include in its existing
petroleum pricing formula the price of fuel oil; and (ii) furnish by
September 1, 1992 to the Association the said pricing formula
(including the price of fuel oil).
ARTICLE IV
Financial and other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure  that all records    (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made;
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
tors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said


﻿-8-
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls in-
volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   NPA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NPA will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower shall have failed to revise by October 31,
1992 the NPA Act so as to provide NPA with the degree of autonomy it
requires for the efficient exercise of its functions;
(d)   the NPA Act shall have been       amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of NPA to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement;
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NPA or for the suspension of its operations; and
(f)   Subject to paragraph (g) of this Section:
(i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any loan, credit or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project (in-
cluding the Japan Exim Grant, the EIB Loan and


﻿-9-
the EC Grant) shall have been suspended, cancel-
led or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(g)   Paragraph (f) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Associa-
tion that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termina-
tion or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur subject in the case of
the event specified in paragraph (f) of that Section to the proviso
of paragraph (g) thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Sub.§idiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NPA;
(b)   the submission to the Association of a financing plan
for the Project satisfactory to the Association;


﻿- 10 -
(c)   the introduction in Parliament of a bill revising the
NPA Act in order to provide the degree of autonomy NPA requires for
the efficient exercise of its functions;
(d)   the reduction by NPA of its staff by at least 45% under
a plan satisfactory to the Association; and
(e)   the submission to the Association of NPA's audited
annual reports for fiscal years 1990 and 1991.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NPA, and is legally binding upon NPA in accordance with
its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NPA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NPA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance, Development and
Economic Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Ministry of Finance, Development and
Economic Planning
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                     3363
Freetown
Telefax:
225353
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
'i   Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Generating            5,030,000          100%
unit
(2)   General Plant         1,180,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(3)   (a) Engineering         720,000          100%
and consultants'
services
(b) Consultants'        660,000          100%
services for the
Bumbuna hydro-
electric power
project
(4)   Studies                 730,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(5)   Management            3,280,000          100%
services
(6)   Training                280,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(7)   Lubrication             590,000          100% of foreign
oil                                      expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(8)   Refunding of            550,000          Amount due pur-
Project                                   suant to Section
Prepara-                                  2.02 (c) of this
tion                                      Agreement
Advance
(9)   Unallocated           2,280,000
TOTAL           15,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b)   expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) unless a
qualified utility and/or utility consulting firm satisfactory to the
Association has been employed to manage NPA under a contract
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist NPA to (A)
restore adequate and reliable supply of electricity to its customers
through the maintenance, rehabilitation and replacement of its
facilities, and (B) develop institutionally into an autonomous and
commercially viable utility capable of providing reasonably priced
and reliable service to its customers; and (ii) to assist the
Borrower to develop a comprehensive power sector development policy.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Generation
(1)   Rehabilitation of the Kingtom powerhouse and two Sulzer units
and their auxiliary systems.
(2)   Installation of two 5 MW medium-speed (300-700 rpm) diesel
generating units in the Kingtom or Blackhall Road power
plants.
(3)   Provision of spare parts for the rehabilitated and the new
generating units.
(4)   Installation of an oil-water separator and an incinerator to
avoid spilling oil into the sea.
Part B:     Subtransmission
(1)   Replacement, expansion and/or rehabilitation of switchgear for
substations; and expansion of transformer capacity and
construction of a new substation.
(2)   Construction of a new 3.5 km line from Kingtom to Wilberforce;
and rehabilitation of the Congo Cross-Mammy Yoko line.
Part C:     Distribution
(1)   Construction of about 23 km of 11 kV overhead lines and 4 km
of underground cables to rehabilitate about 28 km of damaged


﻿- 16 -
underground cable, and extension of about 10km of the 11 kV
network with overhead lines.
(2)   Rehabilitation of about 60 km of LV lines.
(3)   Replacement of about 5,000 meters and house service drops.
(4)   Minimum rehabilitation of the public lighting system.
(5)   Purchase and installation of distribution transformers, ring
main units, low voltage boards and other associated equipment.
Part E:     Institutional Strengthening
(1)   Assisting NPA to develop into an autonomous and commercially
viable utility.
(2)   The employment of a qualified utility and/or a utility
consulting firm to manage NPA for a period of at least three
years under a performance-based management contract satisfac-
tory to the Association.
(3)   The strengthening, definition of the functions, and respon-
sibilities of NPA's Board of Directors and management.
(4)   Overseas and local training of the staff of NPA.
Part F:     Supervision of Bumbuna Hydro-electric Power Project
Supervision by NPA of the civil works for the Bumbuna
hydro-electric power project.
Part G:     Communication and Data Processing
(1)   Installation of a repeater station, a base station, purchase
of additional transreceivers and, improvement o7 existing
transreceivers.
(2)   Improving  NPA's  existing  data processing   equipment  to
strengthen billing, accounting, payroll and budget control and
inventory control at NPA's warehouses, and purchase of
microcomputers for engineering and planning.


﻿- 17 -
Part H:     Studies
Preparation of: (a) a plan to consolidate energy sector
activities within a single ministry of the Borrower; (b) a Master
Plan for the development of the power sector of Sierra Leone; and
(c) an environmental study for the Bumbuna hydroelectric project.
Part I:     Procurement of Lubricants
Procurement of lubricating oil for the generating units
installed in Freetown.
Part J:     General Plant
Procurement of general plant including operating and mainte-
nance equipment, tools, spare parts and vehicles.
T     *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Lhe Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $150,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to repleni-h the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall h20
ave requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
quests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 19 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify


﻿- 20 -
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant    provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


