 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14756

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/15/2015

               Country: Uganda
             Project ID: P050440                                                     Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Uganda Public                 Project Costs (US$M):                       86.57                 n/a
                         Service Performance
                         Enhancement
                         Program (ups-p
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                        70.0                20.3
      Sector Board:      Public Sector                 Cofinancing (US$M):                       16.57                 n/a
                         Governance
          Cofinanciers: DfID, Irish Aid,              Board Approval Date :                                 06/20/2006
                        DANIDA                                Closing Date:           12/31/2011            06/30/2014
         Sector(s):     General   public administration sector (100%)
         Theme(s):      Other accountability/anti-corruption (33%); Administrative and civil service reform (33%);
                        Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (17%); Other public sector
                        governance (17%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:             ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg          Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. viii) states that the Project Development Objective (PDO) was to
    support “the transformation of the public service so that it is affordable, efficient and accountable in use of public
    resources and service delivery; and the improvement of the policy, institutional and regulatory environment for
    sustainable growth and service delivery.”

    According to the Financing Agreement of December 18, 2006 (p. 5), the PDO was “to support the Recipient's
    efforts to: (a) improve and make its public service delivery affordable, efficient, accountable and effective in use
    of public resources: and (b) improve the policy, institutional and regulatory environment of its public service
    delivery institutions for sustainable economic growth.”

    The PDO stated in the Financing Agreement is used as basis for this validation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    The project consisted of two components. Information on the actual contributions of development partners, who
    co-financed Component 1, is not available, and therefore only the Bank's actual costs for that component are
    provided here.

    Component 1: Public Service Reform Program (PSRP) (appraisal estimate US $ 31.5 million, of which US$ 15
    million was to be funded by IDA ; actual US$ 12.9 million funded by IDA ): This component was to finance
   activities to enhance performance and accountability of the public service; address issues related to
   performance, accountability and appraisal of civil servants; improve public service efficiency; and support
   government restructuring initiatives. This component was also to finance technical assistance to improve the
   work environment in the public sector and support pay and pension reforms. In addition, this component was to
   support the overall implementation of the government’s public sector reform program.

   Component 2: Performance Enhancement Facility (PEF) (appraisal estimate US $ 55 million, all of which was to
   be funded by IDA; at restructuring, the planned cost was reduced to US $ 8 million; actual US$ 7.4 million): This
   component was to finance a Performance Enhancement Facility to support public-sector capacity development
   and performance improvements. This component was also to finance the development of statistical capacity, the
   implementation of procurement reforms, and a financial sector technical assistance program.

   During a project restructuring on November 20, 2008, the government requested the Bank to adapt Component 2
   to focus only on core capacity building initiatives for which the Ministry of Public Services was responsible. At the
   time of this restructuring, no Bank funds had been disbursed. The restructuring reduced planned costs for
   Component 2 from US$ 55 million to US$ 8 million.

   Revised Component 2 (estimate US$ 8 million, actual US$ 7.4 million): The revised component was to finance
   the establishment of a Civil Service College to provide training for public officers and to conduct policy research
   and reviews to move reforms and innovative ideas forward to improve public service delivery. The revised
   component was also to support training and research in critical areas to improve strategic leadership and
   management skills.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Costs: The estimated project cost was US$ 86.57 million (PAD, p. vii). Neither the ICR nor the project
   team provided total actual costs. Actual Bank costs were US$ 20.3 million. The ICR (p. 31) indicates that
   development partners contributed US$ 16 million, and the project team confirms that all co-financier funds were
   disbursed with the exception of US$ 0.47 million from Irish Aid (which requested a refund of these funds due to
   corruption issues in the Ministry of Public Service). However, the project team also indicates that some of the
   planned project co-financing from the UK Department for International Development (DfID) was disbursed prior to
   the project, and therefore the total DfID disbursement under the project is unknown.

   Financing: According to the PAD, the project was initially to be financed through a pooled funding arrangement
   as follows:

        A US$ 70 million IDA credit.
        Department of International Development (DfID) (US$ 10.5 million planned).
        Irish Aid (US$ 0.07 million planned; the ICR [p. 5] reports a planned Irish Aid contribution of US$ 4.2 million.)
        Danish International Development Cooperation (DANIDA) (US$ 6.0 million planned; the ICR [p. 5] reports a
         planned DANIDA contribution of US$ 5.6 million).

   US$ 47 million of the IDA credit was cancelled. The difference between the remaining US$ 23 million balance
   and US$ 20.3 million actually disbursed is due to exchange rate fluctuations. The project team states that all
   development partner funds were disbursed, with the exception of some Irish Aid funds as reported above

   Borrower Contribution : There were no planned contributions by the Recipient.

   Dates: The project was amended twice:

        On November 20, 2008, the government requested a restructuring to reduce the scope of Component 2 and
         focus on core performance enhancement initiatives. Component 2 was therefore reduced to three main
         activities: i) establishing a Civil Service College; ii) providing targeted training and research in strategic
         areas; and iii) equipping top public service managers with leadership skills. The total credit was reduced
         from US$ 70 million to US$ 23 million, and US$ 47 million was cancelled. While the planned allocation for
         Component 1 remained the same at US$ 15 million, the planned allocation for Component 2 was revised to
         US$ 8 million. At the time the project was restructured, no IDA funds had been disbursed. Also at this time,
         the closing date was extended from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2013.
        On June 28, 2013, the closing date was extended from June 30, 2013 to June 30, 2014 to allow for the
         completion of project activities.
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   Substantial: The objective was substantially relevant due to Uganda’s weak public service performance. Even
   though Uganda had made progress on poverty reduction and human development, the country improved in only
   two out of six World Bank Institute governance indicators (voice and accountability, and control of corruption)
   between 2000 and 2004. No improvements had been made in terms of political stability, regulatory quality,
   government effectiveness, or the rule of law. The government of Uganda had implemented a 2004-2008 Poverty
   Eradication Action Plan aiming to address these governance challenges while sustaining economic growth and
   poverty reduction. The strategy included a pillar focusing on improvements in public sector management through
   financial management and accountability reforms, decentralization and local government development programs,
   and a public service reform program. Significant progress was made in all areas except financial management
   and accountability reforms and the decentralization and local government development program, and the project
   aimed to strengthen these two specific areas. The project is in line with the 2005 Uganda Joint Assistance
   Strategy and its successor, the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (2010-2015), which identifies the need for
   comprehensive public service reform. The project is also in line with the Bank’s Africa Action Plan, which
   supports public service reform, especially in the areas of human resources management and pay and incentive
   systems. However, the project development objectives were ambitious in terms of scope and complexity.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest: The relationship between planned activities and intended outcomes was logical and properly laid out.
   Activities to improve and make public service delivery affordable, efficient, accountable, and effective in the use
   of public resources included the implementation of an integrated personnel and payroll system closely linked to
   the integrated financial management system, rationalizing and restructuring public sector agencies, and
   reforming the pay and pension system. Activities to improve the policy, institutional, and regulatory environment
   of public service delivery institutions for sustainable economic growth included developing policies in various
   areas to improve the work environment, and developing strong leadership and management capacity. Also, the
   implementation of a Performance Enhancement Facility was intended to improve the performance of public
   sector organizations to support the national strategies for economic performance and poverty reduction by
   developing statistical capacity, supporting procurement reforms, and implementing a financial sector technical
   assistance program.

   The restructuring of the second component was intended to focus more on capacity building within the Ministry of
   Public Service. The new activities included the establishment of a Civil Service College to ensure a skilled
   workforce for the public service, conduct training and research in areas relevant for the growth agenda, and train
   public service managers in public service management.

   However, there were moderate shortcomings. The project design did not take into account the weak capacity of
   the Ministry of Public Service. Given these capacity restrictions, the project's set of planned activities was too
   ambitious in terms of scope and complexity, leading to eventual limiting of the activities of the second component
   and cancellation of the majority of the Bank credit.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To support the Recipient 's efforts to: (a) improve and make its public service delivery affordable , efficient,
   accountable and effective in use of public resources : and (b) improve the policy , institutional and regulatory
   environment of its public service delivery institutions for sustainable economic growth .

   Outputs that are applicable to all objectives :

        An Integrated Payroll and Personnel System was implemented in all government establishments, achieving
         the target.
        100% of ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs) and local governments, including departments of
         education, health, works, transport, water, and environment implemented a Results Oriented Management
         and Output Oriented Budgeting framework, achieving the target.
        A more transparent and meritocratic recruitment system for public service position was developed by
         designing exams for specific positions and implementing a computerized recruitment system.
        A new pay policy was developed through a Public Service White Paper.
   Improve and make public service delivery affordable and efficient in use of public resources : Modest

    Outputs:

        The Uganda Land Commission was revised and six district land offices under the Ministry of Land, Housing
         and Urban Development were revitalized.
        The Petroleum Institute was re-organized and the Department of Petroleum in the Ministry of Energy and
         Mineral Development was established.
        The Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development, the Ministry of Public Service, and the
         Ministry of Education were re-organized.
        The project contributed to adoption of a pay reform policy, achieving the target.
        The National Records Center and Archives was constructed. However, it is not operational, and no records
         have been transferred, and therefore the target was not achieved.

    Outcomes:

    Efficiency:
      Due to funding constraints, not all recommendations could be completely implemented. Estimated savings
          from implementing the restructuring recommendations in a few MDAs were US$ 2.16 billion; however, the
          Ministry of Public Services states that only 25% of these potential savings were achieved.
      Pension arrears decreased by 48%. This indicator was not monitored on a regular basis; values were based
          on overall reductions to pension arrears at project closing.
      The implementation of the Integrated Personnel and Payroll System resulted in US$ 1.3 million in savings
          within the first three months of decentralizing the payroll system.

    Affordability:
      Due to the implementation of the caravan training approach where mobile training units travel to different
         cities, transportation costs for participants were reduced by 97.5%, resulting into a total cost savings in
         training of 19%.


   Improve and make public service delivery accountable in use of public resources : Modest

    Outputs:

        Through the implementation of the Results Oriented Management and Output Oriented Budgeting
         Framework, 43.5% of MDAs and local governments established client service charters, which are useful for
         communicating expected service standards and improving service delivery. However, the target of 100%
         was not achieved.
        Systematic payroll inspections and audits were implemented.

    Outcomes:

        The Public Service Commission reported that 100% of positions for internal promotion are now filled through
         open competition, achieving an increase from 35% in 2006 to the target of 100% in 2014. This indicator was
         not tracked during project implementation, and so the achievement is based on an endline value only.
        Ministry of Public Service officers now conduct inspections of local districts on a monthly basis to assess
         whether internal audits are being performed before changes to payroll are approved.
        No outcome data on accountability to the public, including outcome data related to the implementation of the
         client service charters, is provided.


   Improve and make its public service delivery effective in use of public resources : Modest

    Output:

        The implementation of results-oriented management and output-oriented budgeting in MDAs and local
         governments increased from 30% in 2006 to 100% in 2014, achieving the target of 100%.

    Outcome:

        Of targets contained in the government’s Poverty Eradication Action Plan (2002-2013), 72% were achieved,
          not reaching the target of 85%. The ICR does not provide detail on these targets. The PEAP was also
          supported by other Bank projects, and therefore it is not clear to what extent these results can be attributed
          to this project.
         The ICR does not provide any additional data to indicate that effectiveness increased due to changes in
          management and budgeting.


    Improve the policy environment of public service delivery institutions for sustainable economic growth :
     Substantial

     Outputs:

         Training on drafting policies was provided to all permanent secretaries.
         The Civil Service College conducted a policy research study on the tourism sector. Based on this research,
          two tourism and investment centers were established in Jinja and Entebbe.

     Outcomes

         The Ministry of Public Service was restructured and a change management strategy developed.
         In order to strengthen the government's policy making capacity and foster awareness of reform objectives, a
          Cabinet Committee System, in which reforms can be debated before being discussed within the full cabinet,
          was established.


    Improve the institutional environment of public service delivery institutions for sustainable economic growth :
     Substantial

     Relevant outputs are listed under previous objectives.

     Outcomes:

         A Civil Service College was established, a core curriculum for civil servants was developed and delivered
          through a "caravan" approach, and 2,545 public officers completed specific Civil Service College training
          courses, surpassing the target of 600.
         Cross-cutting Human Resource guidelines for vulnerable groups within the public service sector were
          developed.
         HIV/AIDS focal points, for affected staff to seek counseling and treatment, were established in each ministry.
          Human Resource policies to support vulnerable groups such as women and civil servants with HIV and AIDS
          were developed.
         An MBA program was developed to train top managers in leadership.
         The percentage of women in mid-to senior-level public service positions increased from 12% in 2006 to 22%
          in 2014, not achieving the target of 35%. This indicator was not measured regularly, but only at project
          closing.


    Improve the regulatory environment of public service delivery institutions for sustainable economic growth :
     Substantial

     Outputs:

         Activities to improve the regulatory environment were implemented. These activities included the
          mainstreaming of results-oriented management and output-oriented budgeting across the public sector.

     Outcomes:

         Regulations were put in place for performance contracts, a meritocratic recruitment process, and systematic
          payroll inspections and audits.


5. Efficiency:

     Negligible: Neither the PAD nor the ICR conducted a formal economic analysis. While the ICR (p. 19) reports on
     several project outcomes that led to efficiency increases in the public sector, it does not report on the
   cost-effectiveness of use of project resources, or on whether costs involved in achieving the PDO were
   reasonable.

   Delays in disbursement and implementation of activities were indicative of inefficiencies in the use of the project's
   resources. Together with lack of other evidence, this leads to an efficiency rating of Negligible.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                        No
   ICR estimate                     No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of objectives was substantial, given the need to improve Uganda’s weak public service performance,
   Relevance of design was modest, as planned activities were too complex and ambitious given the weak capacity
   of the Ministry of Public Service. The objective to make public services more efficient and affordable was
   modestly achieved, as some savings were realized, but not nearly to the level anticipated. The objective to make
   public services more accountable was also modestly achieved, as no evidence is provided on accountability to
   the public or to other entities. Similarly, the objective to make public services more effective was modestly
   achieved, as there are no data provided on increased effectiveness related to changes in management and
   budgeting. However, improvements in the policy, institutional, and regulatory environment were substantially
   achieved through the creation of a variety of new processes and institutions. Efficiency was negligible, given the
   lack of an economic efficiency analysis or evidence that project funds were used in a cost-effective manner.
   Taken together, these ratings are indicative of significant shortcomings in the project's preparation and
   implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating Unsatisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The Risk to Development Outcome rating is Negligible to Low given the few achievements made under the
   project. The sustainability of these few achievements will depend on the government’s commitment to continue
   supporting the reforms initiated, politically and financially. Uganda will have elections in 2016, and therefore it is
   unclear whether the reforms will be among the priorities of the new government. If the new government will not
   support the new agencies and structures, there is a risk that they will not be sustained. Also, while the current
   government requested the building and operationalization of the Civil Service College, the ICR (p. 26) states that
   the Ministry of Finance, Planning, and Economic Development intends to fund the Civil Service College's
   operations only for the short-term, and that the continued existence of the college will depend on its ability to
   sustain itself in the next three to five years. Since the second phase of the Civil Service College facilities has not
   been completed, cost savings have not materialized yet. Also, some of the project activities are still not
   functioning properly, such as the majority of Human Resources modules. Therefore, the government has limited
   ability to manage recruitment, leave, pension, career planning, performance management, and training. In
   addition, since the National Records Center and Archives is not operational yet, the government is carrying the
   costs of inefficiency in records storage and retrieval, and national records are still not properly kept.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank team prepared a project that responded to the government’s request to move its public service
   reform forward. The project's design built on lessons learned from within the country and across the region.
   These lessons included: i) a programmatic approach fosters more ownership and better coordination; ii)
   implementing the work program of the project within the main ministry helps to avoid draining public service
   human resources for a separate implementing agency; iii) higher public service salaries foster effectiveness
   and productivity; and iv) designing M&E to track outputs and outcomes allows more timely measurement of
   the impact of a public sector reform project.

   The Bank implemented a Quality Enhancement Review and provided a Project Preparation Facility to
   advance project preparation. The intended outcomes of the project reflected the government’s priorities at
   the time of appraisal.

   However, there were significant shortcomings. The project was very ambitious and complex, including two
   large components, a Results Framework with a very large number of indicators, and reliance on financial
   management and procurement capacity within the implementing agency that did not exist at appraisal. The
   Bank tried to mitigate this risk by implementing activities such as building capacity in critical areas such as
   project management, procurement, financial management, and M&E. In order to mitigate additional risk
   related to limited commitment by political leadership to implement the project, the Bank tried to ensure
   continuous policy dialogue with political leaders.

   M&E design also had significant shortcomings, in particular the complexity and highly decentralized nature of
   the data collection process (see Section 10a).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   According to the ICR (p. 25) development partners such as DANIDA and Irish Aid appreciated the Bank’s
   regular supervision missions to provide technical expertise and identify challenges during project
   implementation.

   The Bank’s focus on development impact was limited, given that only one out of two PDO indicators and only
   three out of 18 intermediate outcome indicators were regularly tracked during implementation. Two indicators,
   which were not included in the PAD, were added and tracked on an ad hoc basis. The Bank did not address
   any of the M&E issues, and the lack of data did not allow for informed decision making.

   Given the Parliament’s request to limit the activities and the scope of component 2, the Bank restructured the
   project to reflect these requests before it became effective in November 2008. However, donor partners had
   already started to disburse funds to component 1 under a basket arrangement. By the time the Bank’s loan
   became effective, the development partners had front-loaded their contributions, and by mid-2010, 100% of
   their funds were disbursed while the Bank had only disbursed 20% of its resources. The front loading of the
   Development Partners’ contributions led to a crowding out of the Bank’s resources.

   The project's information, education, communication strategy and change management strategies were not
   sufficiently implemented, leading to a lack of visibility and understanding of the project, significant delay of the
   approval for project effectiveness by the Parliament, and resistance to change towards results-orientation and
   accountability by public service leaders. Also, the Bank's mitigation efforts to address the weak capacity
   within the Ministry of Public Service and the MDAs was not sufficient, and the lack of capacity led to delays in
   project implementation.

   The Bank conducted the Mid-Term Review (MTR) as planned in May 2011. The MTR concluded that an
   extension of the project closing date would be necessary to achieve the PDO since the project had
   encountered delays in the implementation of the Integrated Personnel and Payroll System, the National
   Records Center and Archives, and the construction of the Civil Service College.

   The project experienced several delays after the Mid-Term Review. Delays were related to the procurement
   of contracts, submission of financial management reports, weak performance in the rolling out of the
   integrated personnel and payroll system component, and the construction of the National Records Center and
   Archives. Just two months before the already-extended closing date in June 2013, only 50% of project funds
   had been disbursed. The ICR comments that the Bank granted another extension of the closing date by 12
   months, but it does not comment on how the Bank addressed these challenges.
  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   While the government requested the Bank’s assistance for the implementation of its Public Sector Reform
   Program, the project experienced an 18-month effectiveness delay due to the lack of approval by the
   Parliament. The Parliamentary Committee on the National Economy suggested decreasing the scope for
   capacity building. The Bank worked with the Ministry of Finance, Planning, and Economic Development to
   restructure the project accordingly and to extend the deadline for effectiveness.

   The government supported the implementation of the integrated personnel and payroll system. The Ministry
   of Finance Planning and Economic Development signed a memorandum of understanding with the Ministry of
   Public Service to ensure the operationalization of the remaining modules and that the system would work well
   with the integrated financial management system.

   However, other areas did not benefit from the government’s support to the same extent. The information,
   education, communication and change management strategies were not sufficiently implemented by the
   government. This had a negative impact on the project in terms of visibility and support. Also,
   recommendations from the government restructuring under the Public Sector Reform Program have not been
   implemented even though they could result in cost savings and efficiency gains.

   The ICR does not comment on whether the government complied with covenants. Appropriate transition
   arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after credit closing are not in place. While the
   Ministry of Finance, Planning, and Economic Development indicated that it will continue supporting the Public
   Sector Reform Program with a particular focus on results-oriented management and performance contracts, it
   will only fund the Civil Service College in the short term.


  Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project did not have a dedicated implementing agency and was implemented by the Ministry of Public
   Service and the relevant MDAs and local governments. Those entities were not ready for the implementation
   of the project and lacked procurement, financial management, and M&E capacity. Also, the project did not
   have a dedicated project manager to oversee implementation.

   All these shortcomings led to delays in the procurement of contracts, preparation of annual work plans, and
   submission of Interim Financial Reports, as well as lack of implementation capacity of the integrated
   personnel and payroll system. Also, staff rotated often, and leadership within the Ministry of Public Services
   was weak. Given the poor M&E implementation, M&E data could not be used for decision making and
   resource allocation (see Section 10b).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The objective was clearly defined and reflected by the selected indicators. The Results Framework in the PAD (p.
   40) included 2 PDO indicators and 15 intermediate outcome indicators. Some indicators were selected from the
   Results Framework of the Public Service Reform Program. After the restructuring, the number of indicators
   included in the Results Framework increased to 2 PDO indicators and 18 intermediate outcome indicators.
   Overall, the Results Framework was too extensive and involved the tracking of a large number of
   difficult-to-measure indicators.

   The proposed data collection was complex and highly decentralized. Many different departments within the
   Ministry of Public Services were responsible for tracking indicators, while external Ministries Departments and
   Agencies (MDAs) were responsible for monitoring agency-specific data.

b. M&E Implementation:

   M&E implementation had several significant shortcomings. Costs to conduct service delivery, client satisfaction,
   and other surveys were underestimated by the government. As a result, only one of the two PDO indicators was
   tracked during project implementation. Component 1 included 16 indicators, of which only three were tracked
   regularly. Component 2 originally included one indicator, which was replaced by three indicators during the
   restructuring; according to the ICR (p. 15), of these three indicators, only one was monitored during project
   implementation. Implementation Status Reports relied on some data outside the project's Results Framework for
   reporting of progress toward achievement of objectives. During the first two and a half years of project
   implementation, none of the project's formal indicators showed any results that could be quantified. Therefore, it
   is not clear how all the endline data provided in the ICR for most indicators was derived, given the very limited
   tracking during the project's lifetime.

c. M&E Utilization:

   Given the lack of monitoring of the majority of indicators, it is unclear to what extent M&E data was used to inform
   decision-making.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was rated as category B under OP 4.01 (environmental assessment) and OP 4.12 (involuntary
   resettlement) due to the construction of the National Record Center and Archive, which could have potentially
   caused traffic disruption, dust, and noise. An Environmental Impact Assessment was prepared, approved, and
   disclosed by the Bank and the Government. Also, people who were living on the site had to be relocated. A
   Compensation Action Plan was developed by the Ministry of Public Services, approved and disclosed by the
   Bank and the Government.

   After the project restructuring, the project remained in category B. An additional Environmental Impact
   Assessment was conducted to address additional construction activities related to the renovation of the Civil
   Service College in Jinja. According to the ICR (p. 16), the project did not face any major safeguard-related
   issues.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management

   The ICR (p. 16) states that the project did not encounter any financial management issues, except delays in the
   submission of Interim Financial Reports. The ICR does not provide further information on financial management.

   Procurement

   According to the ICR (p. 14), project implementation experienced delays after the Mid-Term Review in May 2011
   due to procurement challenges. The ICR does not specify what kind of challenges or how the Bank and the
   government addressed them. The ICR does not comment on the extent to which Bank procurement guidelines
   were followed.
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Unsatisfactory      Relevance of objectives was
                               Unsatisfactory                                   substantial, and relevance of design
                                                                                was modest. Three of the objectives
                                                                                were modestly achieved and three
                                                                                objectives were substantially achieved.
                                                                                Efficiency was negligible.

          Risk to Development Significant                   Negligible to Low   Given the limited achievements made
                     Outcome:                                                   under the project, Risk to Development
                                                                                Outcome is rated Negligible to Low.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR identifies valuable lessons, including the following:

1. Ensuring political and technical support is critical throughout the entire project cycle. In this project,
   effectiveness was delayed by 18 months awaiting approval by the parliament. Even though the Bank identified
   the risk of potential lack of commitment and support by top leadership during project appraisal and developed
   an information, education, and communication strategy to provide information to lawmakers and the public, the
   strategy was not fully implemented. This might have led to lack of information and awareness about reforms
   and therefore insufficient political support.
2. Clear and simple implementation arrangements are important, especially when technical capacity in the
   implementing agency is weak. Even though the weak capacity of the Ministry of Public Service was identified
   as a potential risk during project preparation, the project was ambitious in terms of scope and included several
   complex components. Also, the Results Framework was too extensive and involved the tracking of a large
   number of difficult-to-measure indicators. This led to many implementation challenges and had a negative
   impact on the achievement of the project’s objectives.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:
    The quality of the ICR is rated Satisfactory, with shortcomings. The ICR provides a good overview of project
    preparation and implementation. The ICR is appropriately critical. However, the ICR could have provided more
    detailed information in critical areas such as financial management and procurement and how challenges during
    project implementation were addressed by the Bank and the government. The ICR did not conduct any economic
    analysis. The ICR is not sufficiently clear on project costs (appraisal estimates versus actual costs per
    component) and financing.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
