Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11455
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1486-KE)
DECEMBER 21, 1992
Industry and Energy Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (Appraisal)
Currency Unit - Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh - US$0.074
US$1.00 - KSh 13.50
US$1.00 - SDR 0.940
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
GENZL       Geothermal Energy of New Zealand
JICA        Japan International Cooperation Agency
KPC         The Kenya Power Company Limited
KPLC        The Kenya Power & Lighting Company Limited
KWH         Kilowatt hour - 1,000 Watt hours
MOERD       Ministry of Energy and Regional Development
MW          Megawatt - 1,000 Kilowatts
TRDC        The Tana River Development Company Limited
TARDA       The Tana and Athi River Development Authority
UEB         The Uganda Electric Board
UNDP        The United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Off ice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 21, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Kenya
Geothermal Exploration Prolect (Credit 1486-RE)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
Kenya - Geothermal Exploration Project (Credit 1486-RE)" prepared by the Africa
Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project -- the fourth operation devoted to geothermal exploration and
development in Kenya, achieved moat of its objectives.  It delineated proven
commercial geothermal reserves for power generation and it built a competent
geothermal department within Kenya's power utility. A follow-up geothermal
development project has been financed by the Bank (Credit 1973-RE, approved in
1988). Accordingly, the project is rated satisfactory and its sustainability
likely.
The Project Completion Report is adequate although it does not include
detailed information on actual project cost and financing or on compliance with
loan covenants. A cluster audit of the Bank's five geothermal operations in
Kenya will be considered once the on-going development project has been
completed.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performncof of
their officfal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
GEOTHERMHA' EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1486-RE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFrACE         .     . .     . .     . 0 .     . .     . .     . .    . .     . .     . .     . .     . .     ....    .............................. 
EVALUATION S!OAMY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    ii
PART It  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Background and Sectoral Context . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . .  . a . . . .            . . .   . 2
Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Major Results    . . . .   . . . .               4 . . . . 4 .  . . . . . .   .  4
IDA Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Implementing Agency Performance . . . .   . .  . .  . . .  . . . . 6
Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . 6  . . . . . . . 6
Lessons Learned . . o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    . . . . . . 8
PART III: PROJECT PROFILC       . . .   . .. .. .. .. . ..   . .   . . ..            14
Project Timetable                                                            14
Credit Disbursement in SDR millions  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Final Allocation of Proceeds   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Mission Data  .......   ....                                   ...            17
Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1486-KE)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is for the Geothermal Exploration
Program in Kenya for which IDA Credit 1486-KE in the amount of SDR 23.1 million
(US$24.5 million equivalent) was approved by the Board on May 29, 1984 and was
declared effective on January 31, 1985.  Proceeds of the Credit allocated to
equipment and materials for drilling operations in the Olkaria Geothermal Field
were onlent to [PC. The loan was closed on December 31, 1989 and the undisbursed
balance of SDR 970.42 was cancelled on September 21, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Divisions,
Eastern Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III).
Part II was prepared by the Project Entity.
The preparation of this PCR is based, in-ter alia, on the President's
Report, the Credit Agreement and Onlending Agreement, supervision reports,
telexes, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
Memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1486-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives. This project followed two earlier Bank loans for the
development of geothermal power in Kenya.   With the first geothermal power
station in Africa operating successfully, Kenya was looking towards geothermal
development on a much broader scale with a view to making it one of the main
pillars of future power generation. The next step in this process was to assess
the potential for additional geothermal power through more exploration work.
Significant work undertaken by other donors focussed on geoscientific field
research and occasional shallow/slim hole drilling.   While this was very
beneficial, a broad exploration program, based on the drilling of numerous deep
wells in different prospective geothermal fields, was needed to establish more
reliable estimates of geothermal reserves. Therefore, the primary objective was
to accelerate geothermal exploration and prove new reserves that could support
additional geothermal power generation during the 1990s. A secondary objective
was the strengthening of the sectoral institutions in charge of geothermal
exploration and development.
Implementation  Experience.       The  principal   shortcoming   in
implementation was the disappointing drilling performance of KPC, a government
corporation, during the first two years of project implementation. Managerial,
organizational, and logistical bottlenecks slowed drilling down to unacceptable
levels. Following increasingly insistent IDA interventions, KPC proceeded to
engage the services of a petroleum company to provide technical assistance to
KPC's drilling operation.   The turnaround thereafter was both dramatic and
positive.   Within a few months, drilling performance reached levels which
compared well  internationally  and  have  since  been maintained.    Another
shortcoming was the slow pace of procurement which affected many of the critical
packages. While progress was made on occasion, a sustained improvement of the
procurement performance was not achieved.  Initially this contributed to the
slowdown of drilling as mentioned; later it delayed by more than a year the
drilling of exploration wells under contract.
Results. The exploration program, while carried out with some delay,
achieved its objectives. 14 out of the some 18 wells sunk in the Olkaria field,
where the existing geothermal power plant is located, were commercially
promising. The drilling program at Olkaria, which was carried out by KPC, led
to important conclusions regarding both the development of the next geothermal
plant and subsequent exploration  drilling.  In the Northeast section of the
Olkaria field, reserves of some 60 MW were considered proven, thereby opening the
way for development drilling (nearly completed under the ongoing follow-up
Geothermal Development Project - Credit 1973-KE) and subsequent construction of
a 2x32 MW power plant (under an IDA project currently under preparation). The



- iii -
West section of the Olkaria field was confirmed to be the likely third production
field after Olkaria East and Northeast, but required additional exploration work.
The Eburru field, in which 3 exploration wells were sunk under contract, was
shown to have significant potential; but the costs of drilling and associated
infrastructure make it less attractive than the Olkaria fields and hence a longer
term prospect for development. Institutional objectives, in respect of KPC's
ability to undertake and manage a drilling operation, were, after some
difficulty, fully achieved.   In respect of establishing a broader legal and
regulatory framework aiming at the potential of involving the private sector in
geothermal exploration and development, objectives were not achieved, due to lack
of Government interest.
Sustainability.   The exploration program has led to development
drilling for the next geothermal power plant and to additional exploratory
drilling in the Olkaria West section and in the Eburru field. The next power
plant is currently being designed. Hence, there is little doubt that the project
benefits will be sustained.
IDA and Borrower Performance. IDA's performance was satisfactory;
the project correctly reflected the priorities in the geothermal sector.
Supervision was timely, focussed and technically competent.   The Borrower's
performance, represented by KPC, the implementing agency, was broadly
satisfactory, in particular regarding the eventually strong drilling performance.
KPC's performance was inadequate in respect of procurement.
Lessons Learned. Three main lessons can be distilled. All of them
relate to technology transfer. The first stipulates that project design needs
to make explicit allowances for the start-up/learning process that has to take
place before a new technology is fully absorbed and can yield the expected
productivity levels. The second deals with the need to address the implications
of new technology on corporate culture, policies, and delivery systems of the
recipient organization, all of which required significant changes. The original
project design somewhat underestimated the complexity of transferring
sophisticated drilling technology into a sector not only unaccustomed to the
technology itself but also completely unconditioned to the operational rigors
associated with it.  A third lesson, related to the second, suggests, that
project design and interaction with the implementing agency during appraisal and
the early part of implementation could have been improved by a broader sectoral
composition of the IDA team. General power sector knowledge could have helped
to put into context and broker the different sectoral outlooks - petroleum and
power - on drilling operations - into an agreed program. As it were, numerous
controversial discussions on the subject took place and time was lost before an
agreed action program emerged.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1486-KE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name       :Geothermal Exploration Project
Credit Number      :1486-KE
RVP Unit           :Africa Region
Country            :Kenya
Sector             :Energy
Subsector          :Power
Background and Sectoral Context
1.          Kenya's potential for geothermal energy had been recognized since the
1970s. By 1978, the comparative cost of imported oil and the growth in power
demand made geothermal development economically attractive, and in 1979 Kenya,
assisted by two Loans from the Bank (Ln. 1799 in FY80 and Ln. 2237 in FY83),
became the first country in Africa to tap geothermal energy commercially. The
first 30 MW unit began operations by 1983, and an expansion to 45 MW was
completed by 1985. In 1984, geothermal energy accounted for about 9% of Kenya's
power supply capacity.  The potential economic attractiveness of large-scale
geothermal energy in Kenya was enhanced by the fact that the known prospects were
within short distances of major power transmission lines and major load centers.
Compared to new hydro capacity, geothermal power was expected to be less costly,
and hence to become the major pillar of least cost expansion of generating
capacity.   Geothermal resources are concentrated in the Rift Valley where a
number of prospective areas had been identified by surface work and drilling.
Estimates of Kenya's geothermal potential at the time of project preparation were
necessarily highly tentative but appeared to be fairly large and in the range of
several hundred megawatts. The first priority was therefore to explore, appraise
and delineate additional prospects as an input into the country's power
development program.   The boundaries of the Olkaria East field had not been
established on all sides and there was room for better definition. KPC intended
to monitor the reservoir performance in Olkaria East over a number of years
before making a decision whether to expand production by drilling new wells or
to maintain production in the original field by drilling make-up wells. Somewhat
disappointing in Olkaria East had been the productivity per commercial well of
2.5 MW which in the industry is considered low.   KPC therefore wanted to
establish whether more productive reservoirs could be located elsewhere.
Following extensive surface surveys, exploratory drilling had started in Olkaria
West, which had the additional advantage that much of the infrastructure built
for Olkaria East could be used in the case of commercial development.   The
Government on its part had begun investigating an additional area, Eburru, in
order to spread the exploration risk. Eburru was selected because of favorable
surface exploration results and its short distance from the main market and
transmission line.  For the longer term, the Ministry of Energy and Regional
Development (MOERD) was also looking at additional prospects in the Central Rift



-2-
Valley to compile an inventory of geothermal manifestations as possible target
areas for exploration in the longer-term.
2.          A  second priority was  to develop effective  institutional  and
organizational arrangements for geothermal exploration and development.
Objectives and Description
3.          Objectives.   With the first geothermal power plant built and
successfully operating, the next step vas to assess the potential for and plan
for geothermal power generation on a much broader scale. A number of donors were
already involved in the geothermal sector under the UNDP program concentrating
on various geoscientific field research and on shallow/slim hole drilling.
Beneficial as these efforts were, follow-up drilling was needed to establish the
level of proven reserves that could be developed. Therefore the primary project
objective was to accelerate geothermal exploration and prove new reserves that
could support additional geothermal power generation during the 1990s.   A
secondary project objective was the strengthening of the sectoral institutions
in charge of geothermal exploration and development, affecting technology
transfer, organization and management, and the legal and regulatory framework.
4.          Description.  The project had three components, i.e. (i) Eburru
exploration drilling, (ii) Olkaria-West appraisal and delineation drilling, and
(iii) energy studies. The Eburru component (base cost: US$ 13.5 million) funded
essentially the drilling of 4 deep exploration wells and the subsequent drilling
of 4 appraisal/delineation wells around the most prospective targets, in the
Eburru geothermal prospect, following up on the results of surface exploration.
The Olkaria-West component (base cost: US$ 12.2 million) funded essentially the
drilling of 12 appraisal/delineation wells, in the Western section of the field
already producing (Olkaria-East).  The studies component (base cost: US$ 0.7
million) included four geoscientific and energy studies.
Design and Organization
5.          The Project was conceived as a continuation of the Bank Group's
involvement in the geothermal sector, but the resumption of upstream activities,
such as deep well exploration and appraisal/delineation drilling, required a
significant redirection of technical, institutional and organizational focus of
Kenya's geothermal program, which the Project design captured.
6.          Kenya's geothermal program, outside the construction and operation
of the Olkaria-East power plant, had focussed on donor financed survey work that
was conducted in Eburru, Olkaria-West, and several other geothermal prospects.
This work was completed in 1981, and in 1982 discussions of the next phase began,
specifically for Eburru and Olkaria West.   As a result of organizational
shortcomings, cumbersome and slow procedures, and fragmented responsibilities for
technical assistance, the progress on KPC executed drilling, which was to follow
the surface work mentioned, had been very slow. Instead of drilling a well of
2000m depth within 2 months, which would be industry standard, it took KPC 10
months. The initial project design addressed these issues in several ways.



- 3 -
7           First,  a geothermal section was created within KPC,  reporting
directly to top management.  The section was made responsible for both the
Olkaria and Eburru drilling. Drilling at Olkaria was to be carried out by KPC
itself, whereas KPC, as implementing agency for MOERD, was to contract an
experienced drilling contractor for the more difficult and riskier work to be
done at Eburru. This arrangement acknowledged the drilling know-how acquired by
KPC over the years. Second, rather than employing three different consulting
firms the responsibility to provide technical assistance for exploration,
drilling management and procurement of drilling supplies was vested in one
consulting contract.   Third, the delineation of responsibility between the
Ministry of Energy and Regional Development (MOERD) was revised, i.e. MOERD
remained responsible for sector policy, surface exploration and shallow/slim hole
drilling in cooperation with bilateral assistance, and the implementation of the
surface survey in the Central Rift Valley.  Kenya Power Company became the
implementing agency for all geothermal deep drilling activities in Kenya.
8.          The main risk of the project was that exploration would not identify
steam fields that are economic to develop. In order to ensure that exploration
activities were designed and carried out effectively and that exploration would
only continue if justified by previous exploration results, it was agreed that
the strategy would be agreed annually between MOERD, KPC, and IDA and reviewed
as needed. To limit the exploration risk at Eburru, MOERD, KPC, and IDA would
agree, after the completion of the fourth well, whether the exploration results
justified drilling of the four subsequent appraisal/delineation wells.
9.          There was no onlending of the credit proceeds earmarked for the
exploratory drilling at Eburru. The portion allocated for the Olkaria component
was passed on to KPC as an interest-free advance for the duration of the
exploration program. If at some point a decision to develop Olkaria West was to
be taken, the advance would be converted into a loan on terms satisfactory to
IDA.
10.         During appraisal,  special emphasis was placed on environmental
considerations. Further steps were taken to strengthen environmental protection,
including the appointment of an environmental officer by KPC.
Implementation
11.         Olkaria Component. Drilling at Olkaria West proceeded at a very slow
pace during 1984 through 1987, with only 9 wells drilled in four years and
averaging only 18.6 meters/drill rig day, a very poor result. While the proven
potential averaged about 3 MW per well or slightly better than the average of the
production wells at Olkaria East, drilling performance needed to be improved
dramatically if the comparative advantage of geothermal power over other
generation sources was to be preserved. To redress the problems affecting KPC's
drilling operations - these were essentially lodged in management and internal
administrative and purchasing procedures - a plan of action was designed in 1986
by IDA. The plan included the appointment of a project manager with authority
to run the exploration operation out of a separate department within KPC, with
separate personnel policies and procurement procedures, and the appointment by
KPC of an agent to expedite imports through customs.  Also, an assistance
arrangement with a petroleum company was concluded under bilateral funding. This



company provided project management, drilling supervision, drilling engineering,
safety, rig maintenance services, materials management, well cost accounting, air
drilling technology, counterpart development and training. Drilling performance
improved markedly thereafter, both in terms of number of wells drilled, as well
as drilling averages per day. From early 1988 to mid-1989, 9 wells were drilled
(of which 7 were successful) and the average drill rate increased to about 44
meters per day, respectable by international comparison.
12.         Eburru Component.  The drilling of deep wells in Eburru should have
c menced in 1985, but the first well was not sunk until late 1988. Contract
bidding and award stretched over almost two years. Numerous communications from
IDA headquarters were needed to keep the procurement process within parameters
consistent with IDA's procurement guidelines. The Eburru drilling program under
the project had to be reduced to three wells with the remaining five wells to be
drilled under the follow-on project (Credit 1973), in part because of higher
drilling costs due to difficult strata conditions and well depths which were
greater than originally planned, and in part due to cost overruns on the main
consultancy contract as a result of implementation delays.
13.         Energy Component. Of the four studies, i.e. (i) geoscientific study,
(ii) geothermal subsector institutional study, (iii) domestic natural gas study,
and (iv) oil shale study, only the first and third were carried out. The oil
shale study was dropped on IDA's advice due to the poor prospects of oil shale
development. The geothermal subsector study was not carried out due to lack of
Government interest.   Remaining funds under this component were reallocated
towards drilling and consulting services.
14.         Geothermal Consulting Services.  Consulting services for the Eburru
and Olkaria components were contracted in late 1985. The consulting firm was to
provide assistance in procurement, scientific support services, such as well
testing, advice to management on the drilling performance of KPC, and supervision
of the drilling contractor in Eburru. Due to drilling problems that KPC was
facing, the consulting firm became more and more involved in the management of
the drilling program which was inconsistent with its advisory role. However,
given the urgent need to take action, the terms of reference were amended to
assign the firm more drilling responsibility and accountability. This produced
only limited benefits because the firm's expertise was dated and (for example)
did not include air drilling. As mentioned earlier, drilling performance did not
improve until the assistance arrangement with the foreign petroleum company took
effect.   The broadened scope of the geothermal consulting services and the
implementation delays in the drilling program increased contract costs of the IDA
financed consultants by almost 100%.
Major Results
15.         Exploration.  All three wells drilled in Eburru had steam from hot
water entry at some levels, although only one tested for a commercial capacity
of 2.3 MW. Eburru was shown to have significant medium to long term potential
but the costs of drilling (difficult strata, depth) combined with the additional
infrastructure outlays for water supply, storage tanks, and road improvements,
make it less attractive in the near term than the Olkaria field. In Olkaria some
18 wells were sunk (of which 12 funded under the credit and 6 under the previous



-5-
credit). Some 14 of these were commercially promising. The drilling in Olkaria
had two major results. The first one was that Olkaria West was confirmed to have
significant medium term potential but required additional exploration work before
a steam reservoir suitable for 2x55 MW generation could be delineated with
sufficient certainty to move ahead with development. The second was that about
60 MW of reserves were considered proven in Olkaria North East. This provided the
foundation for the development drilling program presently carried and almost
completed under Credit 1973, which will lead to construction of a 2x32 MW power
plant possibly funded by IDA. In summary therefore, the exploratory drilling
both in Eburru and Olkaria achieved objectives fully.
16.         Capacity Building.  Capacity building took place at two levels.  At
the institutional level, i.e. KPC, geothermal exploration and development was
eventually recognized as a major activity in its own right, with distinctly
different managerial, administrative and operating rules, rather than being an
appendix to standard power company operations.  This is no small achievement
given the vast difference between managing a traditional, relatively low-tech
power company and running a technology intensive and science intensive geothermal
exploration operation.   At  the technical  level,  considerable  exploration
expertise and skilled manpower was built up. As a result, Kenya now possesses
the nucleus of geothermal expertise needed for the successful development of its
geothermal resources.
17.         Capacity building at the policy level, i.e the Ministry of Energy and
Regional Development, was less successful. The geothermal sector study, which
was to have looked at providing a general legal and regulatory framework for the
subsector, including the participation of private domestic and foreign investors,
was never carried out.
Sustainability
18.         KPC's geothermal exploration program has continued after project
closing. Under the ongoing credit 1973-RE, drilling performance has been fully
maintained and preparation work for the next geothermal power plant is well
advanced. There is thus little doubt that project benefits will be sustainable.
IDA Performance
19.         In retrospect, IDA's performance was satisfactory.   The project
correctly reflected the priorities in the geothermal sector. IDA supervision,
which was generally timely, focussed, and competent, can be roughly broken down
in three phases. During the first phase through 1987, particular attention was
given to the improvement of the drilling performance. During the second phase
in 1987 and part of 1988 the bulk of supervision time was spent on the
procurement of the drilling contract. The last phase of supervision focussed on
restructuring project activities and funds as part of the transition to the next
phase of geothermal development and associated IDA financing. With hindsight,
IDA could perhaps have reacted more strongly to the systemic procurement
difficulties and delays, of which not one single major procurement package was
free. At the same time, it has to be acknowledged, that this type of problem was
not unique to the project discussed here, but affected many other Bank operations
in Kenya. Again with hindsight, the scope of supervision might have been broader



with more systematic attention paid to the non-geothermal performance of KPC, in
particular power system maintenance and electricity tariffs.
Implementing Agency Performance
20.         Responsible for meeting the growing demand for electricity in the
country, KPC had earlier in the 1980s fully endorsed the concept of using
geothermal power as the main pillar of future expansion of generating capacity,
and it was successfully operating the first geothermal power plant in Africa.
The degree of corporate broadening needed to successfully implement a large
multi-year geothermal exploration and development program was initially not fully
recognized. Running one or two drill rigs and a drilling contractor requires
technical competence, on-line management and decisions around the clock and
implies a corporate culture distinctly different from that of a public utility
accustomed to long-term planning and much more infrequent major decision making.
KPC, faced with the prospect of a failing exploration program in the face of
strong new demand for electricity, eventually recognized the need for
reorganization and took action, essentially placing the geothermal program (as
the other main corporate functions) directly under top management and allowing
the program to operate with a great deal of internal independence. With regard
to technology transfer and absorption, the performance of KPC and its staff has
been respectable; as mentioned earlier, the drilling performance has been solid
since early 1988.
Project Relationship
21.         The relationship between KPC and IDA was generally satisfactory.
Although some tensions developed during the period when drilling performance was
lacking, misunderstandings were always quickly resolved and honest disagreements
discussed in a professional atmosphere. Procurement was a continuous source of
tension.
Project Documentation and Data
22.         The Credit Agreement  and Project Agreements were adequate and
appropriate for achieving the project objectives.   The President's report
provided a useful framework to review the project implementation.
Lessons Learned
23.         The main lessons learned are summarized below:
(a)         Project design did not recognize, mainly because of resistance by KPC
during project preparation, that the effective transfer of drilling skills had
not been completed. While the principles of the technology had been absorbed,
it became clear that KPC was not able to utilize the technology at a level of
productivity commensurate with its cost. Satisfactory productivity levels were
only achieved after a technical assistance/management agreement with a foreign
petroleum firm was struck. This highlights the need to assess the requirements



-7-
for moving technology absorption along the start-up/learning curve towards full
productivity levels.
(b)         Technology transfer may also require changes in the broader corporate
environment within which the transfer is to take place. In KPC's case, where an
intersectoral transfer had to take place (essentially from the petroleum sector
to the power sector) there were two such aspects which were not explicitly
addressed by the project design. The first was that KPC's internal decision
making procedures were geared to the comparatively high predictability levels and
measured  needs  and  pace  of  power  company  operations.    The  degree  of
predictability in drilling is much lower and decisions often have to be taken on
the spot, immediately, requiring almost blanket delegation of authority, and
hence modification in power company operating policies, something which project
design has to reflect. The second aspect relates to the capacity of corporate
delivery systems, particularly logistics. Drilling operations require not only
that decisions be taken on the spot but that critical spare parts and materials,
called upon in the process of such decision making, be immediately available or
be procured within days or even hours. Hence, the capacity of such delivery
systems must be carefully evaluated in advance and strengthened, if necessary.
(c)         The IDA team which prepared and appraised the project came from
petroleum exploration and brought with it the best industrial practices of that
sector.   One of the firmer views held  in the petroleum  sector is that
exploration, for a number of reasons, should be carried out under contract by
specialized drilling companies rather than by the petroleum companies themselves.
This view was not accepted by KPC.  Considerable time was spent arguing the
opposing views as both had some merit in the Kenyan geothermal context.  The
final project design, which called for two thirds of drilling to be done by KPC
and one third by a contractor (Eburru component) reflects a reasonable
compromise. The discussions were not only affected by the strength of the views
held, but also by very different sectoral backgrounds and practices -on the
Kenyan side a power company, on IDA's side a petroleum team. Earlier inclusion
of general power expertise, which did not take place until 1987, would probably
have lead to earlier agreement on project design during preparation and agreed
actions as needed during early supervision.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1486-KE)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
INTRODUCTION
Topics in this summary discussed are grouped under the following
heads:-
1. Eburru Exploratory Drilling Project
2. Drilling at Olkaria East, North East and West Geothermal fields
3. Water Supply Project
4. Geothermal Consultancy Services
5. Petro-Canada Assistance Program
6. Procurement
7. Scientific Studies
8. Borrower's Performance
9. IDA Performance
10. Project Relationship
11. Lessons Learned
1.   EBURRU EXPLORATORY DRILLING PROJECT
The drilling of the first Well EW-01 commenced with contracted
rig in late 1988 and the drilling rate was much slower than
Olkaria N.E. geothermal field due to difficult strata
Conditions and because exploratory depths (2472 - 2780m) were
greater than the original planned depth of 2500m.
The Contract catered for drilling eight exploratory wells at
Eburru under the Credit 1486 KE.
Well EW-01 was tested to a capacity of 2.4MW, but EW-02 was
relatively impermeable  and cold.   Well  EW-03 was  highly
permeable although the temperatures were expected eventually
to exceed 200 C. All three wells had steam or hot water entry
at some levels between 800-1200m depth although for practical
reasons these zones were cased and cemented in each well.
Drilling had been costly at Eburru ie. cost per well for EW-
01, 02 and 03 averaged about US$ 1.5 million compared with
under US$ 1.0 million budgeted.   Therefore it was realised
that it would not be possible to drill 8 wells at Eburru and
probably 5 or 6 wells could be achieved at least under 1486KE
and the next Credit 1973KE. Costs were high because:-



-9-
-    more days per well were required than planned.  60 days
per well were anticipated whereas wells EW-01 and Ew-02
required 172 days combined ie. an excess of 26 days per
well.
-    greater quantities of consumable (drill bits, cement,
drilling mud etc) were used than anticipated. The use of
cementing equipment and service contractor was enormous.
-    management  and  consultancy  services  were  increased
corresponding to the increase in drilling time.
It was recommended that the contractor rig should stop drilling at
Eburru after completion of EW-04 in mid December 1989 till the
appraisal of the results from four wells at Eburru were known from
the Scientific Review meeting which was set for March, 1990.
During this interim period the contractor rig moved to Olkaria West
to drill 3 wells. This was the most effective use of resources and
time, despite the cost of about US$ 50,000 to move the rig between
Eburru and Olkaria West.   Two additional wells were drilled
following the recommendations made by the March, 1990 Scientific
Review Meeting which were financed under the next Credit 1973KE.
Contractor's performance throughout their drilling activities was
of high standard.
2.   DRILLING AT OLKARIA NORTH-EAST, EAST AND WEST
2.1  Olkaria North East and East Production field (KPC N370
RIG)
Drilling at Olkaria North East was very slow upto 1987
due to poor drilling management and performance  of
drilling crew. However, the drilling performance made a
remarkable progress by drilling almost 9 wells between
the period early 1988 and mid 1989 and attained a
drilling rate of about 44 metres/day from 19 metres/day
done earlier.
Drilling of make-up wells (OW-27 to OW-30) was
accomplished successfully at Olkaria East production
field and the deliverability from these four make-up
wells was sufficient to boost the output of the existing
45MW Power Plant, the power output of which dropped to
about 42MW in 1989.
2.2  Olkaria West
Drilling at Olkaria West continued successfully except a
few problem ridden wells with difficult fishings. These
were overcomed by the Contractor rig in 1990.   The
drilling program was improved by controlling lost
circulation and especially the usage of aerated water
over the chemical mud.



- 10 -
3.   WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
The water supply systems for Olkaria and Eburru were completed
successfully. The automatic control system had some problems which
were  rectified  by  the  suppliers.    The  performance  of  the
contractors was by and large satisfactory.
4.   GEOTHERMAL CONSULTANCY SERVICE
The geothermal consultant (GENZL) were solely responsible for the
entire geothermal activities at Eburru Exploration project and
Olkaria drilling programs. Inf act, they were managing three fronts
ie. Eburru drilling activities, Water Supply Project, Olkaria North
East production drilling and Olkaria West exploratory drilling.
Although, Terms of Reference of the Consultant were amended to
assign him more drilling responsibilities, their performance in
Water Supply project, drilling materials procurement, scientific
support services, well testing etc. were below our expectations.
The reasons for this lapse was due to their inability to field
appropriate M & E engineers for Water Supply project and as a
result, their drilling engineer incharge at Olkaria and scientist
had too much to do at a short time to complete the project on
target time. This resulted in unnecessary delays in submissions of
tender documents for procurement of drilling materials, drilling
programs,  well reports etc.   These factors attributed to the
increase in their overall consultancy costs for the project coupled
with escalation of fees due to inflations in home country and Kenya
as well as home office support.
5.   PETRO-CANADA ASSISTANCE (PCIAC)
PCIAC technical assistance program in the areas of training of
drilling crews, drilling management, safety, rig maintenance, well
costing, materials management etc. came into effect through
bilateral funding in early 1988 and within a few months, KPC
drilling rate had improved substantially. The make-up wells OW-27
to OW-30 were drilled in 1988 and each well took just over 30 days
thus attaining a drilling rate of approximately 45 meters per day.
However, some problems identified by KPC staff and PCIAC personnel
were as follows:-
(a) Difficulties and delays in Customs Clearance for imported
materials
(b) Difficulties in obtaining authorisation for foreign
expenditures in respect of replacement parts and
supplies.
(c) Delays in obtaining foreign exchange sanctions from The
Central Bank of Kenya.



(d) Delays in vehicle and equipment repair.
(e) Unreliable telecommunication System.
These problems were essentially administrative and are
being streamlined to cater for effective project
management.
6.   PROCUREMENT
The procurement of drilling materials had been slow throughout the
project due to lack of trained KPC staff in this field. However,
this situation was considerably improved through adequate training
by the PCIAC adviser.
The sourcing and procurement of drilling consumables and emergency
supplies for the N370 Rig was carried out through Offshore Drilling
Supplies of UK throughout the project without any difficulties.
Our experience through this credit has indicated that the existence
of an overseas procurement agent is desirable to meet the emergency
supplies for the rig in order to keep the drilling operations to a
high standard by minimising rig down times.
7.   SCIENTIFIC STUDIES
Scientific studies continued in the areas, of interpretation of
gravity, surveys at Olkaria & Eburru, geological mapping at Eburru
and re-assessment of the subsurface temperature and pressure
distributions at Olkaria.   During various discussions with IDA
missions, on the project, decisions were made by KPC scientists to
make careful studies on
-    greater understanding of the nature of Olkaria East,
Olkaria North East and Olkaria West fields.
-    improved estimates of recoverable reserves of geothermal
energy.
-    Clearer  understanding  of  the  regional  hydrological
balance, involving Lake Naivasha, the geothermal field
areas and the plains to the South of Olkaria.
KPC scientists were engaged in compiling the discussions document
for the Scientific Review Meeting which was held in March, 1990
after the completion of drilling EW-04 at Eburru. The objective of
the review meeting was to decide whether Eburru would be feasible
for future development and also to compare Eburru with Olkaria West
as a logical follow up to Olkaria North East.
Many of the KPC scientist attended geothermal courses in New
Zealand, Iceland and USA and the training was extremely valuable.



- 12 -
8.   BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
KPC (Borrower) performance under the credit was satisfactory in
respect of
(i)  drilling   capability   at   Olkaria   to   attain
international standard in 1988/89
(ii) implementations of Eburru exploration drilling
program and
(iii)Water Supply project at Olkaria and Eburru.
9.   IDA PERFORMANCE
IDA's supervision on the project, in KPC's opinion, was timely,
well focussed and extremely helpful in improving the overall KPC
drilling performance, geothermal management of drilling operations
and various directives in the improvement of KPC geothermal
organisational  structure  for  future  geothermal  development
programs.
The compilations of Parts I and III of PCR after careful study, are
observed as accurate and adequate.
10. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
The relationship between IDA and KPC (Borrower) during appraisal
and implementation of the project was good with co-operation and
understanding on both sides in all sectors.
11. LESSONS LEARNED
The lessons learned during implementation of the project are as
follows:-
(a) The design of the Eburru drilling project assumed the
Olkaria  North  East  and  West   field  conditions.
Unfortunately this was not the case. The Eburru strata
was quite difficult and as a result there was a
substantial increase in drilling costs. In future, we
propose to drill at least two deep slim wells before
exploratory drilling commences in a new field to
determine the strata.
(b) KPC were not properly organised to drill geothermal wells
at Olkaria due to inadequate trained management personnel
and   the   professional   skills   needed   to   attain
international standard.   No doubt with the assistance
from Petro-Canada in 1988, the drilling rate was
enormously enhanced and attained the international



- 13 -
industry standard. This was achieved with the training
acquired in project management, drilling engineering,
safety, rig maintenance, materials management, well
costing etc.
(c) The four wells drilled at Eburru had steam from hot water
entry at the approximate depths of 800-1200 metres and
the one tested showed a commercial capacity of about
2.4MW. Eburru proved to have significant potential (20MW
approx) but the costs of drilling together with the
additional infrastructure requirements, made it less
attractive for development in the near future than the
olkaria field where the infrastructure is already
existing.
(d) Drilling at Olkaria West confirmed that there is enough
potential, but it requires further exploration prior to
its development for 2x55MW power generation plant.
(e) In North East of Olkaria, approximately 60MW of reserves
were considered proven and the production drilling of
wells is continuing for the construction of a 2x32MW
power plant.
(f) Technology transfer and its absorption with overseas
training for KPC geothermal staff will be the key factor
in maintaining the high standard of drilling activities
at Olkaria and environs for the future geothermal
development.
(g) KPC as the sole public utility organization in Kenya, is
aware that geothermal source of energy must be developed
at a rapid rate for future expansion of generating
capacity to meet the growing demand for electricity in
the Country. Given this demand as the top priority, KPC
has already embarked on the re-organization of its
Geothermal management for long-term planning and
exploration program in line with the recommendations made
by IDA under the Current Credit.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1486-KE)
PART III: PROJECT PROFILE
TABLE 1: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                      Date Planned    Date Revised   Date Actual
Identification                     -                -        08/25/82
Preparation (Project          01/25/83              -        01/29/83
Brief)
-               -         09/13/83
Appraisal Mission
05/04/84              -        05/04/84
President's Report
03/12/84              -        03/12/84
Loan Negotiations
05/29/84              -        05/29/84
Board Approval
09/28/84              -        09/28/84
Loan Signature
01/31/85         02/28/85      03/19/85
Loan Effectiveness
12/31/88         12/31/89      12/31/89
Loan Closing
06/30/88              -       09/30/1990
Loan Completion



- 15 -
TABLE 2: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT IN SDR MILLIONS
IDA Fiscal      Appraisal Estimate             Actual
Year and Quarter     Cumulative       Cumulative    % Disbursed
1985 1                0.1             -
2                0.2              -
3                2.1              -
4                5.2              -
1986 1                7.6            .2               .9
2               10.1            .5              2.2
3               12.5            1.4             6.1
4               14.9            3.4            14.7
1987 1               17.4            5.3            23.0
2               19.7            7.0            30.3
3               20.7            8.0            35.0
4               21.6            8.5            37.0
1988 1               22.6           12.2            53.0
2               23.1           14.0            61.0
3                -             15.0            65.0
4                -             17.4            75.3
1989 1                -             19.0            82.3
2                -             21.0            91.0
3                -             22.5            97.4
4                -             22.8            99.0
1990 1                -             22.8            99.0
2                -             22.8            99.0
3                -             23.1             100



- 16 -
TABLE 3: FINAL ALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS
Category                     Description                      Amount Disbursed (SDR)
(1)        Drilling under Part A of the Project (Eburru)
(a)       Equipment and Materials                                        789,927.13
(b)       Specialized services including mobilization,
demobilization and rig operation and maintenance
(i)    Exploration wells                                             3,540,986.25
(ii)    Appraisal and Delineation Wells                                    Nil
(2)        Equipment and materials for drilling operations              13,443,350.15
under Part B of the Project (Olkaria)
(3)        Consultants' Services under Parts A and B of the              4,996,745.32
Project
(4)        Consultants' Services for Part C of the Project                328,020.73
Total Amount Disbursed                                    23,099,029.58
Amount Cancelled as of September 21, 1990                       970.42
Amount of IDA Credit 1486-KE                              23,100,000.00



- 17 -
TABLE 4: MISSION DATA
Month/    No. of   No. of    Days in    Date of       Specialization    Performance    Type of
Year      Weeks   Perons   Field          Reports     Represented"      Rating Statua'  ProblemsJ
Identification    08/82       1          3         45       09/21/82       3,6                NA              -
Preparation       01/83       1          2         10       03/18/83       3,6                NA              -
Preappraisl       09/83       3          3         45       10/28/83       3,4,6              NA              -
Appraisal         07184       NA         2         NA       071-I84        3,4                NA              -
Total                                         100
Supervision 1     05/85       NA         1         5        10/02/85       3                  NA              -
Supervision II    07/86       1          3         45       07/-/86        3,4,6              2               T
Supervision 111    09/86      1          1         5        10/21/86       5                  2               T
Supervision IV    11/86       2          5         50       12102186       5,4,6              2               T
Supervision V     03/87       2          4         40       05/20/87       5,4,6               2              T
Supervision VI    11/88       1          2         10         NA           5,4                 1
Supervision Vll   07/89        1         2         10       07/13189       3,6                 1
Supervision Vm    10/89       2          1          S       12128/89       3                   1
Total                                         170
St Soeialo                              / St                                         Pfoblem
1. L1n Offie                             1. Problan fre or 'inor probem,            Technical
2. Countay Offie
3. Fawcial Anayt                         2. Moderau problne
4. Project Engineer
S. Projec Offcer
6. Gel Co_t
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs (in staff week)
Stage of Project Cycle                1982   1983      1984      1985       1986      1987       1988      1989      Total
Through Appraisal                      2       10       2                                                             14
Appraisal through Board approval                        12                                                            12
BRard Approval through effectiveness                   2                                                               2
Supervision                                                       1         9          8         8          8         34
PCR
Total                                                                                                62



