Document of
The World Bank
L   i,       
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3807-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPEMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF' SDR 23.1 MILLION
TO THE
RZEPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE
GEOTHER:MAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
May 4, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAL.ENTS a/
Currency Unit                              Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1.00                                   US$0.074
US$1.00                                    KSh 13.50
US$1.00                                    SDR 0.940
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
kV  - Kilovolt           =                 1,000 Volts
kW  - Kilowatt           =                 1,000 Watts
kWh - Kilowatt hour      =                 1,000 Watt hours
GWh - Gigawatt hour      =                 1,000,000 Kilowatt hours
MW  - Megawatt           =                 1,000 Kilowatts
GENZL             Geothermal Energy of New Zealand
JICA              Japan International Cooperation Agency
KPC               The Kenya Power Company Limited
KP&L              The Kenya Power and 'Lighting Company, Limited
MOERD             Ministry of Energy anid Regional Development
TRDC              The Tana River Development Company Limited
TARDA             The Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority
UEB               The Uganda Electricii:y Board
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
Government: July 1 - June 30
KPC         January 1 -- December 31
a/   Since December 1982, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the
SDR at a rate of SDR = KSh 14.06. I'he rate vis-a-vis the dollar
has fluctuated since that time. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 13.50
has been used in evaluating this project. The USDollar/SDR
exchange rate used in this report is that of March 31, 1984



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Kenya.
Implementing Agency:    Kenya Power Company Limited (KPC).
Amount:                  SDR 23.1 million (US$24.5 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.  The credit could be refinanced under any
subsequent credit or loan the Bank Group may
prov.Lde to finance a follow-up geothermal power
project.
Onlending Terms:         Funds for the Olkaria region component would be
passed on to KPC as an interest-free advance during
the exploration period and would be converted into
a loian if a decision is made to develop the new
field at Olkaria.
Project Objectives:      The project would help accelerate geothermal
exploration and define Kenya's potential for
continued geothermal development (primarily for
electric power generation), specifically through
exploration drilling in the Eburru region and
exploration and appraisal/delineation drilling in
the Olkaria region to identify the areas with the
best prospects for future steam production. In
addition, the project is designed to strengthen the
sectoral institutions in charge of geothermal
exploration and develop more efficient policies and
procedures in the geothermal subsector through the
provision of technical assistance and subsector
studies.
Project Description:    The project would help finance the drilling of 4
exploration and 4 appraisal/delineation wells in
Eburru, and 2 exploration and 10 appraisal/
delineation wells in Olkaria. The project would
also include technical assistance and studies of
geothermal sub-sector organization, of the poten-
tial. domestic natural gas market and of oil shale
deposits in Kenya. The proposed project would be
the third geothermal operation by the Bank Group in
Kenya.
This document has'a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
Estimated Project Costs:
Project Components
Local    Foreign    Total
--------US$ million------
Eburru Region
Materials & supplies for 8 Exploration,
Appraisal and Delineation Wells                  1.4       4.2        5.6
Drilling Contractor                                 .6        5.0       5.6
Technical Assistance                                .2        1.2        1.4
Studies                                             .8         .1        .9
Sub-total                               3.0       10.5      13.5
Olkaria Region
12 Exploration, Appraisal and
Delineation Wells                               3.4        6.7       10.1
Technical Assistance                                .3        1.8       2.1
Sub-total                               3.7        8.5      12.2
Energy Studies                                     .1        .6         .7
Base Cost (early 1984)                  6.8       19.6      26.4
Contingencies a/
Physical                                           .7       2.0        2.7
Price                                            2.2        3.0        5.2
Total Project Cost b/                               9.7      24.6       34.3
a/  Total physical contingencies are about 10% of base cost; local price
contingencies are about 29%, and foreign price contingencies are about
14% of the respective base costs plus physical contingencies.
b/  The project cost estimate includes US$4.5 imillion equivalent of
identifiable import duties and taxes and the total project cost net of
taxes, is US$29.8 million equivalent.



Financing Plan:
--US$ Million Equivalent--
% of Total
Sources                     Local    Foreign    Total           Financing
KPC                          5.3       -           5.3           15
Government                  4.4        .1          4.5           13
IDA                          -       24.5        24.5            72
Total Financing Required    9.7         24.6        34.3          100
Estimated Disbursements:              IDA  FY            1985  1986  1987  1988
Annual                   US$ million                    5.5  10.4   7.1   1.5
Cumulative                                              5.5  15.9  23.0  24.5
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:           No separate report.
Maps:                        17667, 17669R, 17670.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR23.1 million (US$24.5 million
equivalent) on standard terms to help finance a geothermal exploration
project. A portion of the credit would be passed on to the Kenya Power
Company, Limited (KPC) as an interest-free advance to be converted into a
loan on terms satisfactory to IDA if a decision is made to develop the
field explored under the proposed credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4689-KE) dated October
5, 1983 has been distributed :o the Executive Directors. A summary of
social and economic data is in Annex I.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then, the country has experienced remarkable continuity in
both political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been
to promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment,
encouragement of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of
accelerated industrialization, by providing incentives for private, includ-
ing foreign, investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model
can be characterized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diver-
sity of organizational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise
with a significant amount of Government participation and guidance.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remark-
able growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing
grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4%, per annum respectively. The expansion of
agriculture was stimulated by redistribution of large estates to small-
holders, rapid diffusion of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder
output. Growth of manufacturiLng was made possible very largely by the
expansion of domestic demand due to rising agricultural incomes, while in-
vestment for domestic production was being encouraged by high levels of
protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign investment, and active
Government promotion of and participation in manufacturing ventures.
/ Part I of this report is unchanged from Part I of the Report and
Recommendation of the President for the Second Highway Sector Report
(Report No. P-3780-KE) of April 19, 1984.



- 2 -
5.        Following this period of rapid growth, the rate of growth of per
capita income declined substantially after 1974.  Kenya remains a poor
country, still heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture.  Average GNP
per capita in 1982 was US$390. Agriculture accounted for more than a third
of GDP and about two-thirds of exports (other than refined petroleum pro-
ducts) in 1978-83. Since the growth of the industrial sector has been
largely confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the
principal source of income in the rural areas where over 80% of the
population live and work. Kenya still has significant problems of poverty
and underemployment.  About one-fourth of the population is estimated to
have incomes placing them below the absolute poverty line.
6.        A fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid growth
rate of population, currently estimated at 3.9% per year, which is among
the highest in the world. This is, ironically, partly the result of
Kenya's past success in raising health arnd general living standards, which
has resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has probably resulted in
an increase in the country's alreacdy high fertility rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to
mount on Kenya's limited arable land.  Of the country's total land area of
about 575,000 sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially
productive. However, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only
9% can be regarded as high potential land, witih 9% of medium potential and
82% low potential arid- and semi-arid areas. Of the less than 20% of land
area which has good arable potential, much is now densely settled.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.
First, there is the strong likelihood that, unLess growth slows dramati-
cally or ways are found to increase the rate al which income earning oppor-
tunities in agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into
urban areas. Even if the non-agricultural sector were to grow very
rapidly, it probably would be unable to absorb all the new urban labor
force entrants, resulting in rising urban unemiloyment and underemploy-
ment. Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already been created by
the growing demand for social services, especially education. Finally,
efforts to improve the distribution of income and alleviate poverty will be
impeded by the relative lack of access to land and education for the
children of the poorest section of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past was based largely on investments
in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies.  To a
lesser extent, manufacturing production also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in, the protected markets of the for-
mer East African Community (EAC). The scope for further industrialization
along these lines is limited, as most of the easy import-substitution pos-
sibilities have been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has
been abolished. The past pattern cf industrialization has left the sector
increasingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare
parts, and therefore it is vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign
exchange. To maintain growth it will be necessary to reorient industry
toward increased use of domestic inputs and increased production for
export.



- 3 -
10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural
output, which averaged only about 2.4% per year over 1972-79, but improved
modestly to 3.4% p.a. over 1980-83. This reflects generally inefficient
marketing and pricing policies, lack of institutional support and input
supply, less favorable climatic conditions, and weakening of the structural
factors fueling earlier growth. In addition, the concentration of land
holdings, insecure land tenure, and problems in planning and execution of
agricultural projects and programs are inhibiting agricultural growth.
Measures to deal with these problems are essential to revitalize the agri-
cultural sector.
11.       Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification of
exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
rising cost of oil imports which has had an adverse effect on the balance
of payments. From 1964-74, the volume of exports expanded at an average
annual rate of 4.6%, but over the past five years, export volume grew more
slowly.  In 1983, howt-ver, export volume dropped to  9% below the 1978
level. To some extent, this is a reflection of production problems in
agriculture and industry, as well as declining demand for petroleum
products, but it is also an indicator of the need to direct more resources
toward export-oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-83
12.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulner-
able to swings in the country's international terms of trade. The GDP
growth rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in pe-
troleum and other import prices required restrictive economic policies,
accelerated rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following
frost damage in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to
decelerate in mid-1977 and through 1978 with the especially rapid decline
in coffee prices.
13.       During the Fourth Development Plan period 1979-83, Kenya con-
tinued to experience strong external shocks as a result of the second oil
crisis in 1979, unfavorable external terms of trade, and declining export
volumes.  The effects of these external shocks on the balance of payments,
and incomes, were compounded by poor weather affecting, in particular,
coffee and maize production. As a result, GDP growth (at factor cost)
slowed to 3.2% in 1980, recovered in 1981 to 4.8% and slowed down again in
1982 and 1983 to 3.3% and 3.0%, respectively. The trade deficit rose
sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted. To
i       prevent further depletion of the country's reserves, the Government
introduced a program of import restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp
decline in imports and reductions in Kenya's trade gap and current account
deficit in 1979. This, togethesr with increased external borrowing,
resulted in a recuperation of about US$179 million in gross reserves in the
same year.
14.       The improvement in the balance of payments proved to be short-
lived. The increase in petroleum prices, combined with the need for addi-'
tional food imports, resulted in a 39% rise in the value of imports in
1980. While exports rose by 22%, this was not sufficient to prevent a rise
in the current account deficit to almost US$900 million and, despite



-4 -
increased external borrowing, a decline cif US$195 million in foreign
exchange reserves. In 1981-83 there was, however, a strong Government
response to the mounting economic problems, as measures were introduced to
bring the financial and structural imbalaLnces towards stabilization. At
the same time, the Government began to concentrate its longer-term policy
initiatives in a more coherent stabilization program aimed at addressing
the structural constraints to growth. The stabilization program involved
the introduction of tighter fiscal and monetary management, more market
oriented pricing policy, more liberal trade regime, critical appraisal of
parastatals' performance, more restrictive wage and employment policy, more
active exchange rate policy and continued use of restrictions on imports.
As a result, the current account deficit narrowed to US$511 million in 1982
and further declined to an estimated US$178 million in 1983. As a result,
the foreign exchange reserve posit:ion improved substantially at the end of
1983.
The Fifth Development Plan, 1984-88
15.        In December 1983, the Government produced its Fifth Development
Plan (1984-88). The theme of the Plan is "mobilization of domestic
resources for equitable development." Underlying this theme is the
Government's recognition that the heavy dependence on external resources
for development (equal to about 24% of gross investment in 1982) cannot be
continued and future development must, therefore, be increasingly based on
domestic resources.   To achieve this objective, the Plan calls for an
increase in domestic savings as a percentage of GDP from the current level
of about 17% to 23% by 1988.
16.        As in the Fourth Plan, the new Plan's emphasis is on poverty al-
leviation. Compared with the last Plan, it is frank in its discussion of
the main development issues and problems and miore realistic in its macro-
economic forecasts. However, the main weakness of the Plan is that it pro-
vides little in terms of specific policy recommendations and detailed
action programs.  Some of the noteworthy features of the Fifth Plan are:
(a) an increased level of domestic savings to be achieved by
improving Government savings through curtailment of overall
budgetary deficits and encouraging private savings through
an active interest rate policy and expansion of the network
of financial institutions;
(b) an increased capacity utilization in the economy as a
whole. To this effect, the Plan calls for raising the rela-
tive allocation for recurrent iexpenditures in the public
sector and intensification of agricultural production and
revitalization of industrial activities in the private
sector through the provision of adequate remuneration;
(c) continuation of the Government's development strategy toward
a more outward-looking, export-oriented approach. The Plan
proposes, among other things, encouragement of in-bond im-
ports for export production, maintaining an appropriate ex-
change rate and priority treatment for imports and credit
allocations for export-oriented activities;



- 5 -
(d)  recognition that consumer food subsidies should be avoided
and prices to fEarmers be guided by the limits established by
border prices and the exchange rate.  The Plan also proposes
to make the Naltional Cereals and Produce Board a buyer and
seller of last resort. In this regard, the Plan calls for
encouragement of private grain marketing.
17.       Taken as a whole, the Plan is consistent with the strategy incor-
porated in the Government's structural adjustment program of 1980. The
thrust of this strategy, to wlhich Bank's structural adjustment lending isE
closely linked, aims at the establishment of a set of price incentives and
other signals to producers, and a framework of Government support, that
would encourage a more efficient pattern of industrial development, more
rapid growth of agriculture, and expansion and diversification of exports.
The key to this would be the gradual replacement of quantitative restric-
tions on imports with a moderate and relatively uniform tariff. This is to
be accompanied by changes in the exchange rate designed to reduce the neg;a-
tive impact on individual industries and to reduce the bias against agri-
culture. In addition, fiscal and other incentives to industry are to be
harmonized with the objective of trade reform, and procedures for approval
of Government investment in commercial enterprises are to be strengthened..
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
18.       The Government's structural adjustment program was supported by a
Bank Group structural adjustment lending (SAL) operation approved in March
1980. The first SAL involved:: (a) revising the Government's investment
program to make it more consistent with the country's new economic
circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's creditworthiness by improving
external debt management and :Lntroducing better planning and control of
external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of rationalization of the
trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for exports and ensuring that
exports are competitive; and (e) reviewing and revising interest rate
policy to ensure that it is consistent with development objectives. The
program was, on the whole, carried out satisfactorily.  While the general
thrust of the program was maintained, attempts to execute the policy
measures revealed some weaknesses in planning and administration.
19.       A second SAL operatiLon was approved by the Bank Group in July
1982. In addition to supportfing continued rationalization of the system of
industrial protection and improvement of incentives for exports, it
included measures aimed at revitalizing the agricultural sector, increasing
domestic supplies of energy, encouraging energy conservation, preparing a
viable public investment program, and introducing policy initiatives in
population.
20.       The Bank Group conducted frequent review missions to discuss pro-
gress in achieving the release! of the second tranche (US$50.0 million) of
the second SAL. Although substantial progress was made in implementing
most of the aspects of agreed policy reforms, there was delay in two major
aspects of conditionality: the preparation of a forward budget and public
investment program consistent with the objectives of structural adjustment;
and the making of decisions on the future structure of grain marketing.
Performance was also found to be lagging in other areas, including: (i)



- 6 -
preparing a new tariff structure; (ii) implementing the associated
industrial transitional strategy studies meant to chart policy for the
amelioration of the adverse effects of reduced protection on inefficient
industries; (iii) developing an export promotion program; and (iv)
reviewing large farm subdivision and other specific land issues.
21.       In the course of these reviews, the Government recognized the
need to improve its performance on the outstanding aspects of the program.
Agreement was reached on detailed work programs and schedules to accelerate
progress. In December, the Government produced a public investment
program, and conveyed to the Bank appropriate decisions on the future
structure of grain marketing. Consequently, as noted in January 6, 1984
memorandum to the Executive Directors (IDA/SecM84-8), the second tranche
was released.
22.       While the structural adjustment program should have a favorable
impact on the balance of payments over the longer term, the remaining
years of the 1980's are going to be difficult for Kenyan policymakers and
for the Kenyan economy. The country's international terms of trade are
likely to continue to deteriorate at least until the second half of the
1980s. In addition, external debt service obligations will be high because
of borrowing associated with the large current account deficits of the past
several years. At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are
likely to be subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing
revenues and demands for increased expenditures. It is within this context
that critical policy decisions must be made involving a fundamental re-
structuring of the pattern of development.
23.       Given the slow recovery of the world economy and Kenya's gener-
ally unfavorable export prospects, it will be difficult to maintain posi-
tive growth of GDP per capita through 1984.  IIowever, growth prospects
appear somewhat better from about 1985 onward, provided the Government's
structural adjustment program is continued and there is adequate external
assistance to enable its successful implementation. The country's terms of
trade should also stabilize, the growth of external debt should decelerate,
and current account deficits should grow at reasonable levels during
1985-90.  A growth rate of GDP around 5% per year should be attainable
during the second half of the decade.
External Debt
24.       The expansion of government and government-guaranteed commercial
borrowing in recent years has adversely affected the debt service ratio,
which has risen from 3.9% in 1977 to about 30.0% in 1983. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase from about 30.0%' in 1984 to a peak of 30.6%
in 1985, before declining to around 16.4% in 1995.  Debt service payments
to the Bank in 1982 accounted for 14.7% of total debt service payments;
IDA's share was 0.7%. The Bank's share of total debt service payments is
expected to rise to about 18.3% by 1990, while IDA's share would rise to
1.2%. The Bank is currently holding 18.9% of Kenya's total outstanding and
disbursed external debt, and IDA 11.3%. The Bank's share is expected to
decline to 16.7% and IDA's to rise to about 14.5% by 1990. Because of the
long-term balance-of-payments constraint, Kenya's development program will
require substantial financing in excess of public savings and available



- 7 -
non-Bank Group external capital combined, and the Bank Group, therefore,
expects to continue the practice of financing a substantial portion of
total project costs, including some local costs when necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
25.       The developments affecting the East Africa Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 11977
(R77-312) and in statements made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364) and December
1983. One of the positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been
the Partner States' decision, taken upon the mediator's recommendation,
that the East African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's
institutions -- should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has
been enacted. The three Governments commented on the mediator's proposals
for the three Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981,
and decided to commence negotiations based on the mediator's proposals.
Negotiations, which srarted in December 1981 and continued through 1982 and
1983, focussed on details of a division formula for assets and debts.
While it was generally accepted that both location of assets and the
principle of equal rights of all former EAC partners should be taken into
account, the weight to be attributed to these principles was a major
issue. On November 15 and 16, 1983, the negotiations culminated in a
meeting of the three Heads of State in Arusha in which full agreement was
reached on all outstanding issues, including the prominent weighting
question. The agreement follows the recommendations of the mediator and
provides that both assets and liabilities be divided in the ratios of 42%
for Kenya, 32% for Tanzania, and 26% for Uganda. As a result of this
formula, Kenya and Tanzania have excess assets over their equity shares,
while Uganda has a shortfall. The Presidents agreed, therefore, that Kenya
and Tanzania will pay compensaLtion to Uganda. The method of payment of
this compensation is being worked out at the ministerial level and an
agreement formalizing the arrangements is expected to be signed by the
three Presidents in May.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA2/
26.       To date, Kenya has received 44 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 41 IDA credits, including one Special Fund Credit,
amounting to US$1,801.7 million, which supported 74 operations. In
addition, Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8
million which were extended for the development of common services
(railways, ports, telecomunications, and finance for industry), operated
regionally for the three partner states of the EAC. Annex II contains
summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and to the EAC
corporations.
2/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Second Highway
Sector Project (Report No. P-3780-KE) of April 19, 1984.



- 8 -
27.       The Bank Group has reoriented its lending program to assist the
Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has meant the
inclusion in the program of structural adjustment assistance.  A first
credit in support of the Government's structural adjustment program was
approved in 1980 and a second structural adjustment operation was approved
by the Bank Group on July 1, 1982 (paragraphs 18-23). Recent economic work
has also focused on the structural problems in specific sectors, including
the energy sector.
28.       The selection of projects for financing and the design of such
projects have been influenced by the need to complement policy actions
under the structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has thus been
given to the agricultural and industrial sectors, but increasing emphasis
also has been placed on sectors such as population and energy. In FY83,
the Second Structural Adjustment Operation, an Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project, the Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project, the
National Extension Project and the Secondary Towns Project were approved.
So far in FY84, the Kiambere Hydroelectric Power Project has been approved.
29.       In FY83, disbursements on projects, as a percentage of amounts
outstanding at the beginning of the year, rose to 16% (the figure is 26%
including structural adjustment operations) from 11% in FY82. This
improve-ment was largely due to th,e greater use of disbursement Procedure
III and the application of the Treasury's Circular requiring operating
Ministries to make prompt reimbursement claims, under penalty of freezing
funds. However, project implementation has deateriorated in recent years,
in contrast to the successful implementation performance in the past.
Factors accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some
of the more pervasive factors have been institutional/management
constraints, procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a
lack of local financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing
and submitting reimbursement claims, have led to a poor project
disbursement record. An in-depth review of the causes of this situation
has been undertaken by the Bank Group arid the problems and possible
solutions were discussed with the Government at Country Implementation
Review meetings. The discussions were frank and constructive, and the
Government informed the Bank Group of several new initiatives to improve
performance, including those mentioned. During the ongoing CIR
discussions, the Government and the Bank are con-tinuing to review the
Government's development objectives and investment priorities in the
context of implementation capacity and resource constraints.  The project
portfolio is under review to determine t:he scope for reducing project costs
through reformulation, rephasing or cancelling projects which cannot be
adequately funded.  As a result, substantial cancellations of funds have
been made from the Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 1636-KE) (US$58.0
million) and the Second Integratedl Agricultural Development Project (Cr.
959-KE) (US$38.0 million), and the project scope for the Bura Irrigation
Settlement Project (Ln. 1449/Cr. 772-KE) has been reduced to a level
commensurate with available local resources. The Rural Water Supply
Project (Ln. 1637-KE) is being reformulated. Additional possibilities for
project rationalization are currently under review.



- 9
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.        IFC has committed a total of US$69.4 million for twelve opera-
tions in Kenya. These include loans for six companies: Pan African Paper
Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services
(Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.; Bamburi Portland Cement Company,
Ltd; Tetra Pak Converters, Ltd.; and Leather Industries of Kenya, Ltd.
Also included are a US$2 mil:Lion credit line to the Kenya Commercial Bank,
Ltd., a US$5 million credit 'Line to the Kenya Commercial Finance Company,
Ltd., and equity investments in Development Finance Company of Kenya, Ltd.
(US$1.3 million), Diamond Trust of Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.8 million), and
Industrial Promotion Services Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.6 million). As of March
30, 1984, IFC held for its own account US$49.5 million, comprising US$37.8
million of loans and US$11.7 million of equity. A Summary of IFC
Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE ENERGY, POWER AND GEOTHERMAL SECTORS
THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resource Base, Supply and Demand
31.        Because of its modest energy resource base of wood, hydro-power
and geothermal, Kenya relies heavily on imported energy, mainly oil fromr
the Middle East, but also some coal from Swaziland and power from Uganda.
The resource base also includles oil shale, solar and wind energy. Wood is
by far the most important energy source, supplying close to 70% of total
requirements and most of the non-commercial energy used. Firewood and
charcoal are used extensivell in rural areas and bagasse in the sugar
industry. Forests cover about 4% of the country's total area and face
rapid depletion because annual wood fuel consumption by far exceeds
growth. The most important iindigenous source of commercial energy in Kenya
is hydropower and about 350 MW are already developed.
32.        The potential for greothermal energy has been recognized for some
time, and by 1978 the comparative cost of imported oil and the growth in
demand made it attractive enough to warrant development. Thus Kenya became
the first and - until now - only country in Africa to tap geothermal energy
commercially and geothermal energy accounts already for about 9% of power
supply capacity. Growth in power supply in the next decade may rely
increasingly on geothermal (t:o the extent that economic fields can be
discovered) as an alternative to thermal power plants based on imported
coal and oil or possibly to the continued development of hydropower which
may be beginning to exhaust iits economic potential in Kenya. The proposed
project would help finance exploration for geothermal energy that might
serve as a resource base for power generation in the 1990s. The role and
potential contribution of geothermal energy in the context of Kenya's
energy development program was confirmed in the Bank's energy assessment
(see para. 38 below).  The results of the proposed project would contribute
to the elaboration of a long-range power investment program for Kenya, for
which the Government is currently preparing a least cost development study.



- io -
33.       As of now Kenya has no reserves and no production of
hydrocarbons, but one consortium is exploring for oil.  As a result of the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Loan No. 2065-KE of December 8,
1981 see paras. 55 and 56), several exploration concessions are now being
negotiated between the Government and oi:L companies. At present, imported
oil and petroleum products are the principal sources of commercial energy
for Kenya. About 3.0 million tons per yesar of imported crude oil are
processed at the Mombasa refinery with roughly half for domestic use and
half for re-exports to neighboring countries.
34.        Consumption of imported energy grew at a rate of 2.5% p.a. from
1973 to 1981 mainly because of an increase in oil imports from 1.36 million
tons to 1.67 million tons. The share of net petroleum imports in Kenya's
total imports increased from about 13% in 1973 to about 30% by 1981,
chiefly as a result of the steep rise in petroleum prices. Still, Kenya
was able to supply most of the increase in deniand for commercial energy
from hydropower and geothermal sources, so that the share of imports in
total commercial energy decreased from 94% in 1973 to about 83% at present.
35.       Total energy consumption approached 7.3 million tons of oil
equivalent in 1981 or about 450 kg per capita which is higher than the
African average of 300 kg reflecting the more developed economic base of
Kenya. About 75% of energy is consumed by residential users (mostly
non-commercial), about 13% by transport and the rest by industrial,
agricultural and commercial users. Petroleum products now supply about 78%
of commercial energy used, hydro-electricity 1.7%, geothermal 1% and coal
about 4%.
Energy Pricing
36.        The energy pricing policies adopted by the Government are in
general reasonable and reflect the economic constraints facing Kenya. The
Government has followed a consistent policy of' keeping petroleum product
prices in line with or above international prices. Taxes are levied on
petroleum products with the exception of fuel oil, kerosene and industrial
diesel oil. The main issue in petroleum product pricing is the structure
of taxation which causes the gasoline price to be much higher than the
diesel oil price at the retail level which has created a distortion in
demand for diesel in relation to refinery production. In its dialogue with
Government the Bank has been encouraging a reduction of the distortion
between retail prices for gasoline and diesel oil and the Government is
considering measures to this effect.  The electricity tariff structure is
based on long-term marginal costs and was formulated with Bank assistance
in 1979. More detail on power tariffs is given in Annex VIII.
Energy Sector Institutions
37.        The Ministry of Energy and Regional Development (MOERD) is
responsible for the energy sector. MOERD has two departments: Energy and
Regional Development. MOERD's Energy Department oversees (i) energy policy
formulation; (ii) electric power; (iii) oil and other fossil fuels; and
(iv) wind, biogas, solar, geothermal, wood fuel, etc. In this connection,
the European Community is financing a study on the structure of MOERD and
its relationship with other institutions in the sector.  Responsibility for



- 11 -
forests lies principally with the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources. The Ministry of Finance and Planning establishes prices and tax
rates for all energy resources. Although the creation of the MOERD was an
important step in organizing sector activites, there is still a need to
define overall priorities in sector development and to coordinate
activities of bilateral and multilateral aid agencies to reflect such
priorities. The Energy Department has an authorized staff of about 150 but
has filled only about 100 of these positions and, consequently, has not
been able to address all of the important issues in the energy sector.
MOERD has established a geothermal unit consisting of 6 professionals,
including 4 geoscientists, 1 drilling engineer and 1 drilling foreman.
MOERD also has a field crew of about 30 people stationed in Eburru and
carrying out resistivity surveys and other geoscientific investigations.
The strengthening of MOERD was identified as a necessity in the Energy
Assessment Report and MOERD has been receiving training and institutional
support under the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (see paras. 55
and 56). The proposed project would aim at strengthening the geothermal
capability of MOERD.
38.       The Bank has undertaken an energy assessment in Kenya and in May
1982, published the report "Kenya: Issues and Options in the Energy
Sector", which contains a number of recommendations to improve Kenya's
energy sector. Kenya has, in general, followed appropriate energy sector
policies.  It has, for example, consistently passed energy price increases
along to consumers, and maintained appropriate levels of taxation. The two
major energy problems which the Bank report identified are the high cost of
imported petroleum which is becoming a significant drain on the foreign
exchange resources of Kenya, and the deforestation, which, while not
serious in some areas, is accelerating because wood fuel is being consumed
at about four times the annual rate of replenishment. The recommendations
include the encouragement of a more economic mix of petroleum product
imports and exports, a more realistic and less ambitious fuel alcohol
investment program, replacement of oil-fired thermal plant power generatLon
through the further development of hydroelectric and geothermal resources,
and, in the longer term, the development of inter-regional hydroelectric
power projects. Other recommendations include the change-over of oil-fired
heating equipment in industries to coal, ensuring that energy is used more
efficiently, a more vigorous search for possible petroleum within the
country, and improvement in the reforestation programs. Several studies
are being discussed with the Government as a part of the energy assessment
follow-up to be financed by the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector
Management Program. Among these studies are a power loss reduction study,
a solar water heating investment program, and a coal handling and
substitution study.  The latter study would review the prospects for coa:L
use in all large industries comparing coal with other fuels to ensure a
least cost strategy for interfuel substitution. The prospects for the
development and use of two other fuels in Kenya, natural gas and oilshale,
would be the focus of two studies to be included in this proposed project
(see para. 61). The final recommendation of the Bank's energy assessmenl
report was that the Government develop an overall long term strategy for
the energy sector. Under the Second Structural Adjustment Operation (Loan
No. 2190-KE/Credit No. 1276-KE), the Government has undertaken, inter alia,
to develop (with assistance of external consultants) and discuss with the
Bank, comprehensive energy sector policies and an investment program



- 12 -
providing for both production and conservation in the modern and
traditional sectors. These studies have been completed, and a strategy and
investment program for energy is being finalized by the Government which
will be incorporated in the Fifth. Plan.
THE POWER SUB-SECTOR
Power Consumption
39.       Power consumption is concentrated in the more densely populated
corridor across the southern part of the country from Mombasa through
Nairobi to Lake Victoria (Map IBRD 17667) and along the coast. Only 6% of
the population has access to electricity, and per capita electrical energy
consumption of this group was about 1800 KWh in 1981, compared to a
statistical average of 108 kWh for the entire country. Demand in the five
main consuming areas in Kenya over the period 1976-81 grew at an average
7.9%. Industry accounts for most of consumptilon and for most of the
growth.
Power Supply
40.       Public electricity in Kenya is the responsibility of four
companies: the Kenya Power & Lighting Company Limited (KP&L), the Kenya
Power Company Limited (KPC), the Tana River Development Company Limited
(TRDC) and the Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority (TARDA). The
Government owns about 60% of the equity of KP&L and private shareholders
the rest, while KPC, TRDC and TARDA are entirely Government-owned, although
their staff and management are integrated into KP&L under a management
agreement. KP&L purchases the entire output of KPC, TRDC and TARDA and is
the sole distributor of power. KEP&L is a well-managed utility and is
operated in accordance with sound commercial principles. The KP&L
companies (i.e. KP&L, KPC, TRDC) in 1983 had sales revenues of about US$93
million equivalent and net income of about US$14 million. A summary
analysis of the past and projected financial situation of the KP&L
companies is given in Annex VIII. The staff of KP&L at November 30, 1982,
inclusive of staff attached to KPC and T'RDC, numbered 5,300, which is
believed appropriate.
41.       The existing interconnected ge'nerating capacity consists of hydro
(348.5 MW), thermal (113 MW), dieEsel (31.5 MW), geothermal (30 MW) and gas
turbine (33 MW) for a total capacity of 556 MW. In addition, 30 MW are
supplied from the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) under a long term
agreement extending to the year 2005n Gross output in 1983 was 2,111 GWh,
of which about 80% were generated from hydro (preliminary).
42.       The expected increase in sales of electricity requires the
installation of additional generating facilities in Kenya.  To meet the
requirements in the near and medium future, the third 15 MW unit at the
Olkaria geothermal plant is being installed, followed by the Kiambere
Hydroelectric Power Project (Loan 2359-KE) to be completed in 1988. Beyond
that, the options to meet Kenya's future electric energy needs include
further development of geothermal and hydro resources, thermal stations
using imported fossil fuels or electricity imports (Annex VIII). It is one
objective of the proposed project to explore for and prove steam reserves



- 13 -
to provide input for Kenya's future least-cost power development plan (to
be prepared under financing from the Olkaria Geothermal Expansion Project,
Loan 2237-KE).
THE GEOTHERMAL SUB-SECTOR
Background
43.       Geothermal resources are concentrated in the Rift Valley where a
number of prospective areas have been identified by surface work and where
one area (Olkaria East) is being tapped, its steam production supplying a
power station whose total installed capacity will reach 45 MW by 1985.
Estimates of Kenya's geothermal potential are at this stage necessarily
highly tentative but it appears to be fairly large and in the range of
several hundred MW. The potential economic attractiveness of geothermal
energy is enhanced by the fact that the known prospects are within short
distance of major load centers and major power transmissioi. lines. During
the first years of operation electricity has been produced at Olkaria East
at a cost of about US 8 cents per Kwh, which is lower than diesel,
competitive with thermal power, but higher than hydro. The relatively high
cost level of geothermal power reflects the relatively small size of the
turbines, overdesign in a number of areas of this first commercial
geothermal plant in Africa, and the comparatively low productivity of the
wells. In the future, economies of scale can be expected as well as
applications of the lessons learned in Olkaria East, which should reduces
the cost of geothermal power, particularly if more productive reservoirs
can be identified during the proposed project. The areas of major interest
are Olkaria West and Eburru, respectively 40 and 50 miles from Nairobi, the
country's main center of consumption. The locations of the various
geothermal energy areas are shown on Map IBRD 17667 and the geology of
those areas is described in Annex VII. Map IBRD 17669R shows the Olkaria
area and map IBRD 17670 the Eburru area.
Exploration Strategy
44.       Government objectives in the geothermal subsector have been to
develop this resource to the extent economically feasible to contribute to
satisfy the projected increases in demand for power. The share of
geothermal in the nation's power supply capacity is still relatively small
(9%), despite its large potential, primarily because of a lack of proven
steam reserves. The first priority is therefore to explore, appraise and
delineate additional prospects as an input into the country's power
development program.
45.       The prospective geothermal areas in Kenya are in various phases
of exploration and development. The development of Olkaria East is nearing
completion. The boundaries of the field have not been established on aLl
sides and there is room for better definition. KPC intends to monitor
reservoir performance over a number of years before a decision is made on
whether to expand production by drilling new wells or to maintain
production in the original field by drilling make-up wells. Somewhat
disappointing in Olkaria East has been the productivity per commercial well
of 2.5 MW which in the industry is considered low. KPC's priority is now
to establish whether more productive reservoirs can be located elsewhere.



- 14 --
Following extensive surface surveys, exploratory drilling has started in
Olkaria West where KPC is hoping to find better reservoirs than in Olkaria
East. Olkaria West has also the advantage that much of the infrastructure
built for Olkaria East could be used in the case of a development. The
Government has begun investigating an additiornal area, Eburru, in order to
spread the exploration risk.  Eburru was selected because of favorable
results of recently completed surface exploration and its short distance
from the main market and transmission line.  With a long term view, MOERD
is looking at additional prospects in the Central Rift Valley to compile an
inventory of geothermal rnanifestations as possible target areas for future
exploration.
Status of Exploration
46J        Olkaria East, a 1.5 km2 field within the 100 km2 Olkaria
prospect, is being developed by KPC with assistance from UNDP and the World
Bank.  Twenty-six wells have been drilled and one more is planned to
delineate the field. Several reiniection wel:Ls will be drilled to dispose
of waste fluids and to help maintain reservoir pressure. The depth of the
wells ranges from 900 to 2,500 m and the temperature is around 2400C-
Total production capacity is equivalent to about 51.2 MW, sufficient to
supply the Olkaria units 1-3. The average productivity per commercial well
of about 2.5 MW is relatively low by industry standards as a result of low
permeability of the reservoir rock, and leads to relatively high investment
and operating costs.
47.        In Olkaria West, the two exploratiol wells drilled are producing
2.3-2.4 MW.  A third is ready for testing with preliminary indications that
productivity may exceed 3.5 MW and drilling on a fourth has started. Six
additional exploration wells are planned to be drilled in 1984 and 1985.
Two deviated exploration wells are planned after further study of the
geology and improvement of rig performance. Among the various sites probed
by exploratory drilling, the three most prospective would be selected and
about four appraisal/ delineation wells would be drilled around discovery
wells, for a total of about 12 wells to prove the size of the resource in
each area.  Materials and funds are available for eight of the 20 wells to
be drilled in Olkaria West under a previous project and the proposed credit
would finance the remaining 12.  The proposed credit also would finance
spare parts and supplies for the two existing drilling rigs as well as
technical assistance so that explorationi in Olkaria can continue beyond
mid-1984.
48.       Eburru has been covered by exploratory surface surveys carried
out by MOERD with assistance from Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA). Extensive geophysical and geochemical work has identified 4
anomalies that would be targets for deep drilling (Map IBRD 17670).
Exploratory drilling is planned for 1984 with a shallow rig donated by the
UK and a slim hole rig supplied by Japan.  The program would consist of 2
slim holes and 4 shallow wells and be directed at gathering additional data
on reservoir characteristics to help site the full size deep exploration
wells planned for 1985/86.  In 1985, deep exploration drilling of full size
wells would start with up to four exploration wells, followed by four
appraisal/delineation wells around the most prospective discovery. Surface
exploration would continue around the drillir.g area to determine the extent
of the prospect and possible additional anomalies.



- 15 -
49.       The remainder of the Central Rift Valley including Susua, Nakuru,
Bogoria, Menengai and Celela is the object of a UNDP-coordinated
surface exploration program, supported by a number of other donors. In
addition to UNDP, Japan, and the U.K., Italy, France and the U.S. plan l:o
start geothermal assistance programs in 1984. All bilateral donors and
UNDP provide their contributions on a grant basis. Most of this future
foreign assistance is for the first steps in exploration and related
services such as surface surveys, consulting services, training and
studies. The bilateral assistance in surface exploration outside
Eburru/Olkaria is coordinated under a UNDP-financed project aimed at
preparing an inventory of geothermal manifestations in the Central Rift
Valley from Susua to Celela, an area of about 20,000-25,000 square
kilometers. A brief summary of assistance by each donor is given in Annex
IV. The potential of the Northern Rift Valley beyond Celela and the
Southern section between Susua and the Tanzanian border and including the
Magadi prospect are not covered by the proposed inventory and are planned
to be surveyed later. Annual consultations would be held between MOERD
and the Bank to review exploration results and discuss future strategy;
these reviews would also take into account the activities of other
bilateral and multilateral agencies involved in geothermal exploration (see
para. 65). The Government and KPC would also discuss with the Bank any
plans for future field development resulting from the proposed project, in
light of the results of the least cost power investment study being
prepared by KP&L under the previous Olkaria Geothermal Expansion Project
(Loan 2237-KE) (Section 4.02, Credit Agreement).
50.       The above exploration and drilling strategy is based on
recommendations by KPC's geothermal consultants and by other geothermal
experts who periodically convene in Scientific Review Meetings to monitor
and guide the progress of geothermal activities in Kenya.
Institutional Arrangements
51.       The geothermal sector is regulated by the Geothermal Resources
Act of 1982. The Act states that geothermal resources are vested in the
Government (MOERD) which can issue exploration and exploitation licences,
and provides for private sector activity. On a small scale geothermal
energy is already used in agricultural applications such as crop drying by
private farmers and as hot water in residential buildings in Nakuru.
Geothermal condensed steam is also the only source for water supply in the
Eburru area for local farmers.  Direct involvement by private oil companies
in geothermal exploration and development on a large scale (as is happening
in the Philippines) is less likely because of the relatively small size of
the power market. However, changing circumstances might increase the
interest of private companies.
52.       The two main organizations responsible for the geothermal sector
have been MOERD and KPC, with KPC in charge of Olkaria and MOERD of all
other geothermal prospects. While KPC has been generally successful in
Olkaria, a number of organizational shortcomings have emerged which need to
be addressed as the role of geothermal energy in Kenya's power development
may become more prominent. Among those weaknesses have been: (i) the
geothermal drilling operations were under the responsibility of the Olkaria
power plant management and therefore far removed from top management; (ii)



- 16 -
the procurement procedures were unduly cumbersome and slow; and (iii) the
responsibilites for technical assistance were fragmented among three
consulting firms (GENZL, Virkir and Merz McLe.lan).  As a result the
progress of drilling has been slow; the average length of time for drilling
an exploratory well to 2000 m averages 10 months which is high by industry
standards. MOERD on its part was uncertain on how to discharge its
responsibilities under the Act and considered for some time the
establishhment of its own deep drilling department. These shortcomings
were reviewed during project preparation and appraisal and the measures
outlined below are expected to address them0
53.       MOERD would be responsible for definition of sector policies,
surface surveys such as those carried out around Eburru, for operating the
small rigs used for prospecting, and for implementing the UNDP-supported
inventory in the Central Rift Valley (para. 49).
54.       Kenya Power Company (KPC) would be the implementing agency for
all geothermal deep drilling activities in Kenya. KPC's operations have
been carried out and would continue to be carried out on its behalf by
KP&L, pursuant to the provisions of a management agreement (Agreement for
Management and Mutual Cooperation, dated November 18, 1980). The
arrangement has worked well in the past under previous Bank Group projects
and it was agreed that these arrangements would be maintained. KPC owns
power generating facilities, including the Wanjii and Tana hydro schemes,
is integrated with and managed by KP&L (para. 40) and in 1982 KPC had total
assets of about US$70 million, total revenues of US$11 million and net
income of US$ 3 million (see Annex VIII).  KP&L has decided to establish a
Geothermal Drilling Section which would report directly to the Technical
Director of KP&L through the Senior Projects Engineer (Section 4.06, Joint
Project Agreement).  The equipment: and staff presently used by KPC in
geothermal drilling would be centralized in the new Geothermal Section.
KPC's geothermal exploration operations have four crews for each of its two
drilling rigs, plus logistical support staff, A group of about 40
geoscientists (including lab technicians) review drilling results and plan
further exploration steps with assistance from the consulting firm. Total
staff involved with geothermal operations is about 320. KPC, under the
aforementioned arrangements with KP&L, has a proven capability to implement
all project components. A training program for the Geothermal Section will
be part of the technical assistance arrangements with a drilling management
firm. The establishment of the Section and the appointment of its Director
would be a condition of effectivenless (Section 6.01(b), Credit Agreement).
The Geothermal Section would be supported by one consulting firm in charge
of drilling management, exploration consulting and assistance in
procurement of drilling supplies. The consulting firm would also assist in
strengthening the training program and in improving management information
systems.
Role of the Bank Group
55.       In order to reduce the reliance on energy imports and to improve
its balance of payments, Kenya has decidled tc, develop its indigenous energy
resources, such as hydro and geothermal, and to accelerate exploration for
hydrocarbons.  The Bank has financed seven power projects, including the
Olkaria geothermal power plant, with loans totalling US$233 million, and a



- 17 -
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (US$4 million). The Bank's major
purpose in each subsector has been to support the development of an
adequate institutional framework and managerial capability to ensure that
domestic resources are developed efficiently.
56.       In the power sector, the Bank has been supporting Kenya's
utilities to enable them to discharge their responsibilities in an
efficient manner, and has promoted the adoption of a sound tariff policy.
In the hydrocarbon sector, the Bank has assisted Kenya in strenghtening its
technical capability in formulating and supervising a petroleum exploration
program, including the establishment of a framework suitable to attract
foreign oil companies which 'have shown an interest in investing in the
country.
57.       In the geothermal subsector, there is presently no interest by
international companies in exploration since the projected increases in
electricity demand are relatively small.  Various donors ar^ already
involved in the geothermal sector under the UNDP program concentrating on
expatriate assistance in various geoscientific fields and on shallow/slim
hole drilling. Beneficial as these efforts are, follow-up drilling is
needed to establish the level of proven reserves that could be developed.
Thus, it would be the objective of the proposed project to finance drilling
of deep exploration wells in order to prove new reserves that would support
additional geothermal power generation in the early 1990's.
58.       Through the proposed project, the Bank would assist Kenya in
developing an effective organizational set-up for its geothermal
operations. After the Bank contributed with an international comparison of
models of geothermal sector organization in various countries, during
appraisal it was agreed with MOERD, KPC and KP&L that KP&L would establish
a Geothermal Section which would be responsible for deep drilling. This
arrangement would make the sector more effective and remove obstacles to a
fuller utilization of geothermal energy in Kenya (paras. 52-54). While
helping to streamline sector organization, the Bank would pursue with the
Kenyans the definition of a well focused geothermal exploration strategy
and drilling program as exploration results become available.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
59.       The project was proposed to the Bank Group in August 1982 and
appraised in September/October 1983. Negotiations were held in March/April
1984. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III and a
Credit and a Project Summary is given at the beginning of this report.
Project Description and Objectives
60.       The project would help accelerate geothermal exploration and
define Kenya's geothermal potential, specifically in Olkaria and Eburru. A
further objective would be tlhe strengthening of the sectoral institutions
in charge of geothermal exploration and development.



- 18 -
61.       The project would include:
(a)  Eburru Exploration Drilling
(i)    materials for 4 deep exploration wells;
(ii)   materials for 4 appraisal/delineation wells around
the most prospective target;
(iii)  services of a drilling contractor to drill the above
wells, including monbilization and demobilization;
(iv)   water supply system necessary for drilling (600
gallons/minute capa!city);
(v)    drilling management. assistance: a drilling manager
and a drilling superintendent (total 48 man-months)
to advise KPC and MOERD on geothermal drilling and to
help supervise the drilling contractor;
(vi)   technical assistance by a geothermal engineering
firm, including reservoir engineering study and power
plant prefeasibility study (total 30 man-months); and
(vii)  geochemical, geophysical studies by MOERD;
(b)  Olkaria-West Appraisal ancl Delineation Drilling
(i)    materials for 2 deviated exploration wells;
(ii)   materials for 10 appraisal/delineation wells;
(iii)  rig operation durirng the project period, including
spares and supplies;
(iv)   drilling management: assistance and assistance in
procurement: 1 drilling manager and 2 drilling
superintendents on--site (total 90 man-months); and
(v)    technical assistance by a geothermal consulting firm
in geologica:L interpretation and strategy
preparation, and including a prefeasibility study for
a power plant in Olkaria-West (total 30 man-months);
(c)  Energy Studies
(i)    geothermal subsector study (12 man-months) which will
be integrated with the overall power sector organiza-
tion review which the Government will be carring out;
(ii)   study of potential domestic market for natural gas
(12 man-months); b:ilateral assistance is being
discussed to begin exploration in some gas prone
areas, following up on results from the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project; and



- 19 -
(iii) study of oil-shale deposits in Kenya (12 man-months)
and potential applications, such as direct combustion
in power generation and industry.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
62.       Detailed estimates are given in Annex VI and summarized in the
Credit and Project Summary. The estimated total project cost, including
physical and price contingencies, is US$34.3 million with an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$24.6 million or 72%. In addition to the
costs shown, KPC would provide for the operation of its two existing
drilling rigs. The cost estimates are based on the recent experience in
Olkaria East and similar projects elsewhere and include identifiable import
duties and taxes totalling about US$4.5 million. The estimates for
technical assistance and consulting are based on US$15,000/man-month which
is reasonable in the drilling industry. Total physical contingencies of
about 10% of base cost have been provided. Price contingencies on foreign
costs, totalling about 14% of- foreign base cost plus physical
contingencies, have been inc:Luded to meet expected international inflation
rates of 3.5% for 1984, 8% for 1985 and 9% p.a. for 1986-88. Price
contingencies for local costs totalling about 29% of local base cost plus
physical contingencies, are based on projected inflation rates of 13% for
1984 and 12% thereafter. Prices are expressed in US$ of January 1984.
63.       The proposed IDA credit of US$24.5 million would finance approxi-
mately 100% of the estimated foreign exchange component of the project or
72% of total project cost. Government would be the borrower, with funds
allocated for the Olkaria component passed on to KPC. The Olkaria funds;
would constitute an interest-free advance for the duration of the
exploration program. If a decision is made to develop Olkaria West, the
advance would be converted into a loan on terms satisfactory to IDA. KEPC
and Government would conclude a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to
IDA, as a condition of effecl:iveness (Section 6.01(a), Credit Agreement).
IDA has reserved its rights to refinance the proposed credit under any
subsequent credit or loan the Bank Group may provide to finance a follow-up
geothermal power project (Recital (B), Credit Agreement). The local cost
component of US$9.7 million would be financed by the Government (Eburru and
studies) and KPC (Olkaria). The proposed geothermal subsector study would
include recommendations as to the most appropriate financial arrangements
to be made between MOERD and KPC to account for the expenses incurred by'
MOERD (including drilling) and for related liabilities, and as to the most
appropriate cost recovery policy to be applied. Such recommendations would
be discussed with IDA by December 31, 1985 and implementation would be
initiated by December 31, 1986 (Section 3.02(c), Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
64.       KPC with the assisl:ance of KP&L (see para. 54) would implement
the Olkaria component and, in cooperation with MOERD, the Eburru drilling
component.  KP&L's Geothermal Section would use its own resources for the
drilling in Olkaria and as imaplementing agency for MOERD, would contract an
experienced firm which would mobilize its own rig and crew for the drilling
in Eburru.  The studies would be carried out by consultants selected by and



- 20 --
reporting to MOERD. MOERD would continue to carry out surface surveys in
Eburru outside the area already surveyed.
65.       KPC would hire consultants to (i) supervise drilling operations
and assist in procurement and (ii) advise in exploration consulting, for
both Olkaria and Eburru. The consulting services for drilling management
and exploration would be carried out by the same consulting firm.
Beginning in October 1984 the exploration drilling strategy would be
discussed annually and agreed between MOERD, KPC and IDA and reviewed as
needed (Section 3.01(e), Credit Agreement:; Section 2X04, Joint Project
Agreement). This review would determine whether continued exploration
would be justified. Provided the previous review had agreed that continued
exploration would be justified, locations; and drilling programs for each
well would be proposed by KPC after advice by consultants and agreed by the
Bank (Section 2.02, Joint Project Agreement). To limit the exploration
risk in Eburru, after completion of the f-ourth exploratory well KPC, MOERD
and IDA would agree on whether the exploration results justify drilling' of
the four appraisal/delineation welLs (Schedule 1, para. 4 (b),Credit
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       The drilling contractor for Eburru would be selected following
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines
for procurement. The contractor would be responsible for all rig
supplies. All other materials would be procured by KPC either on its own
account (Olkaria) or on behalf of 1MOERD (Eburru) and be grouped together
for Eburru and Olkaria in packages for major categories. All contracts
estimated to cost more than US$300,000 would be awarded following ICB.
Contracts for specialized items estimated to cost less than US$300,000
could be procured through limited international tendering from qualified
suppliers up to a combined total of US$4 million. Locally available items
to be financed by IDA below US$150,000 per contract such as fuel, cement
and parts would be procured following local competitive bidding
satisfactory to the Bank up to a combined total of US$1 million.
Consultants would be recruited following Bank Guidelines. All bidding
packages for goods and services estimated to cost over US$ 1.0 million
equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation resulting in a coverage of about 80% of the total estimated
value of contracts for goods and services. The balance of contracts would
be subject to random post review by the Bank after contract award (Parts
A.1, C and D of Schedule, Joint Project Agreement). In order to simplify
import procedures one global license for the entire project would be issued
by the Government (Section 3.03(a), Credit Agreement). For local
procurement KPC would prepare, and the Bank would approve, a list of items
to be purchased under the project at the time of the initial project
implementation which wouLd authorize KPC's Technical Director to order
locally available items as needed. The list would be advertised locally.
Procurement under the proposed project by procurement method is summarized
in the table below:



- 21 -
KENYA - Geothermal Exploration Project
Pro curement by Methods a/
(US$ million)
Consultants   Local    Tot:al
Project Element           ICB      LIT      LCB   Guidelines    Staff    Cost
Drilling                  7.3       -        -          -           -       7.3
Contractor             (6.4)      -        -                -            (6.4)
Rig and Drilling         12.3      5.6      1.4         -           -      19.3
Materials              (8.7)   (4.0)   (1.0)          -           -    (13.7)
Services                   -        -        -         555          _
_       _        -        (3.6)         -      (3.6)
Local Staff                -        -        -                     1.3      1.3
-       -.       -          -         (0.0)   (O.C)
Energy Studies             -        -        -         .9           -        .9
-       -        -        (.8)           -      (.8)
Total Project Cost       19.6      5.6      1.4        6.4         1.3    34.3
of which: IDA           (15.1)   (4.0)   (1.0)        (4.4)       (0.0)  (24.5)
a/ Amounts in brackets indicate IDA financing.
67.    Disbursements would be made against 100% of the CIF cost of foreign
expenditures. In the case of cement, fuel, and spare parts, disbursements
would be made against 70% of expenditures (Schedule 1, Credit Agreement).
The only completed geothermal exploration project financed by the Bank
Group had a disbursement profile similar to that projected for the proposed
project. Compared to other Bank Group projects in Kenya, it is estimated
that a higher percentage of disbursements would be made during the first
year reflecting the relatively short implementation period, the mobiliza-
tion cost of the contractor, the installation of a water supply system
before drilling can start and payments for drilling materials that will be
used throughout the project.  An estimated disbursement schedule is given
in Annex V. The credit would be fully disbursed by December 31, 1988.
Reporting, Accounting, Auditing
68.    Accounts for both the Olkaria and Eburru drilling components would
be kept by KP&L's Geothermal Section, on behalf of KPC and MOERD in the
case of Eburru. It has been agreed that in future, accounts for drilling
would follow the "authorization for expenditure (AFE)" format used in oi:L
field operations to allow for accounting of cost per well and for close
cost control. Accounts for the remaining Energy Studies would be kept
directly by MOERD's Geothermal unit. KP&L's Geothermal Section would



- 22 -
submit quarterly and annual progress reports on implementation of Olkaria
and Eburru. MOERD's geothermal unit would submit quarterly and annual
progress reports regarding the three energy studies. KPC's accounts, as
well as the project accounts, would be audited annually by auditors accept-
able to the Bank. KPC's accounts a,re currently prepared in accordance with
sound commercial and public utility accounting practices and as agreed
under earlier Bank projects to KPC, its accounts would continue to be
submitted within six months of the end of the financial year.
Environmental Considerations
69.       The risk to the environment from geothermal development is much
less during exploration than during operation. During appraisal, special
emphasis was given to the protection of the environment and an understand-
ing was reached on further steps to strengthen environmental protection,
including the appointment of an environmental officer in Olkaria (Section
4.07, Joint Project Agreement). Both Olkaria and Eburru are already
accessible by roads so that relatively little additional road construction
would be necessary thus limiting the disruption to the environment. A
major concern in Eburru is that steam is the only source of water for
people and animals living in the area and that drilling may decrease steam
pressure and interrupt steam vents., Although the likelihood of this
occuring is considered low, should it happen, the water supply lines laid
out for drilling could be used to supply the area. The inclusion of direc-
tional drilling would also be intended to minimize damage to the environ-
ment since several wells would be drillecl from the same platform. With
these measures adequate action is taken to protect the environment and
compliance with proper industry practices would be monitored during super-
vision. The Olkaria East field and power plant have been operated to date
at acceptable environmental standards.
Benefits and Risks
70.       The main benefit of the proposed prcject is that a domestic
resource base would be explored on which further power development could be
based. The results of the proposed project would be incorporated into
Kenya's power development program to help the Government determine a least
cost approach to the supply of power.
71.       Geothermal power in Olkaria East has been produced at about US 8
cents per Kwh and there are good prospects for reducing the cost through
improvement in power plant design, economies of scale (i.e. larger
turbines) and more productive steam reservoirs to possibly around US 5
cents per Kwh. These indications are considered sufficient to fully
warrant continued geothermal exploration in Kenya; however, more detailed
economic and technical analyses will be carried out as part of the proposed
project and as part of the forthcoming least-cost power development study
so as to optimize future field development programs and the incorporation
of geothermal power into Kenya's overall electric system planning.
72.       Another important benefit would be the project's impact on making
sector institutions, in particular KPC's geothermal operations, more
efficient. A number of agreements have already been reached that will
improve the institutional framework for the development of geothermal



- 23 -
energy in Kenya (paras. 52-5'5). The project would employ roughly 400
people during implementation and cause indirect employment benefits down-
stream in case of development of the reservoir.
73.       The main risk of the proposed project is that exploration may not
identify steam fields that are economic to develop. However, in view of
the knowledge acquired about Kenya's geothermal resources and geology this
risk is considered to be low. The Eburru area is composed of erupted and
ejected volcanic rocks, with north-south trending faults along which large
lava domes have developed. Geochemistry and electrical resistivity data
obtained on the area indicate the existence of a magmatic heat source and
suggest the presence of a vapor-dominated geothermal system, with tempera-
ture and chemical characteristics fully adequate for power generation. A
similar risk exists for exploration and appraisal/delineation drilling in
Olkaria although the degree of uncertainty is much less than for explora-
tion in Eburru, since the area is already producing steam: out of a total
of 26 weils in Olkaria East only 2 were dry/cold and 3 others not commer-
cially productive. The three exploration wells drilled to date in Olkaria
West are all producing steam, two at average rates and one appears to be at
an above average rate. In order to insure that exploration activities are
designed and carried out effectively and that exploration only continues if
justified by previous exploration results, the Bank would (i) annually
review exploration results to decide whether continuation of exploration
drilling is justified; (ii) agree with KPC and MOERD after completion of
the fourth exploration well in Eburru on whether delineation/appraisal
drilling is justified, and (iii) approve the location and drilling program
of each exploratory well (paras. 49 and 65). The introduction of these
decision points adequately addresses the exploration risk involved and
would limit the exposure of MOERD, KPC and IDA should the exploration
results be unsatisfactory. In this case, either of the Eburru or Olkaria
components could be stopped and the respective remaining credit amounts
cancelled (see para. 65). With these safeguards, it is believed that the
risks of the project are far outweighed by the potential benefits associ--
ated with commercial steam production.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, the draft Joint Project Agreement among the
Association, KP&L and KPC and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d), of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
75.       Provisions in the Credit and Project Agreement, of particular
importance are noted in paragraphs 49 through 73 of this Report and those
of a special nature are also Listed in Section III of Annex III. Special.
conditions of effectiveness for the proposed credit (Section 6.01, Credit.
Agreement and referred to in paragraphs 54 and 66 of this Report) are: (i)
establishment and staffing of KP&L's Geothermal Section and appointment of
the Section's Director; and (i:i) that the subsidiary loan agreement has
been executed between the Government and KPC.



- 24 -
76.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.        I recommend that the Executive. Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By E. Stern
Attachments
May 4, 1984
Washington, D. C.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
PAGE I
KENYA                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIG1iTED AVEiAGES) /a
NiOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1 /b         /b   RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE iNCOME
1960/-       1970_  ESTIMiATE          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
AREA (TiOUSAND SQ. IN)
TOTAL                                   582.6        582.6         582.6
AGRICULTURAL                             56.4          59.1         60.4
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        90.0         140.0        420.0               1147.9                       1340.0
eNERGY CONSUKPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           57.0        205.0        208.0                 724.2                        8LO.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    8189.0          11253.0       17363.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)             7.4          IU.2         14.7                 28.5                         47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (:ILL)                                    39.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                     157.1
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   Z130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                            L4.1         19.3          28.6                 56.5                         36.0
PER Sq. KM. AGRI. LAND                145.2        190.4        275.8                 131.8                        449.U
POPULATION AGO STRUCTURE (4)
0-14 YRS                             47.7          48.9         50.2                  45.9                         43.9
15-64 YtS                             49.e          46.6         47.4                  51.2                         52.8
65 AND ABOVE                            2.6          2.5           2.4                  2.8                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE 1Z)
TDTAL                                   2.4          3.2           3.9                  2.8                          2.9
URBAN                                   5.2          6.4           7.3                  5.3                          4.b
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER rHOUS)             54.7         54.7          54.8                 47.6                         42.5
CR1UDE DEATH RATE (PER TItOUS)           2J.6         17.B          12.9                 15.2                         I2.u
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.9          3.9           3.9                  3.2                          3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TdOUS)                ..         30.9         63.0
USERS (4 OF HARRIED WOMEN)               ..          1.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(19o9-71-100)                            99.0        100.0         85.0                  95.7                         97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (14 OF REQUIREMENTS)          99.0         95.0         8d.0                  97.1                        102.3
PROTEINS (GEARS PER DAY)              68.0          o5.U         56.U                  56.0                         72.U
UF WHICH ANIMLAL AND PULSE           27.0          27.0         24.0/c                17.2                         17.6
CHlLD (AGES 1-4) DEATii RATE             29.1         21.9          14.5                 23.6                         15.
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            41.3         48.7          56.0                 51.9                         57.2
INFAAT MORT. RATE (PER T:iOUS)          137.5        112.0         84.7                 117.6                        104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (UPO )
TOTAL                                    ..         15.0          17.0/d               25.4                         59.3
URBAN                                    ..        100.0        100.0/d                70.5                         84.9
RURAL                                    ..          2.0          4.07_                12.3                         37.5
ACCESS TO CXCKETA DISPOSAL
( OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         50.0          55.U/d
URBAN                                    ..         85.0         98.0/d
RURAL                                    ..         45.0         48.07.
POPULATION FER PHYSICIAN              10690.3       7830.0/h   LOO.01O/e,h            L2181.6                       3535.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                2270.U/f,h  1470.0/h       550.0/e,h            2292.0                       1320.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 790.0        770.0        d0..I.S              1075.4                        643.3
URBAN                                  80.0/f         ..        620.0/g              402.3                         545.0
RURAL                                    ..           ..        830.0U j            3926.7                       2462.0
AOMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED                       ..                 9.7/S                 ..                         24.4
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..          4.7            ..                   ..                            .
URBAN                                   4.-/f        4.7
RURAL                                    ..          4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..            ..
URBAN                                   2.5P          ...
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    .             ..           ..                   ..                         46.2
URBAM .N                                              ..            ..                   ..                         77.6
RURAL                                                                                                               16.1



- 26 --
ANNEX I
PACE 2
KENYA                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (W'IGHTED AVERAGES) Ia
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb  RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b       1970/-  ESTIMAT&/b        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      4 7.0        61.         : .o 08. 0            9 7.2                       89.6
MALE                      64.0         72.0        114.0                103.1                       104.8
FEMALE                    30.0         50.0        1.01.0                88.5                        72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       2.0          9.0         18.0                 17.2                        41.7
MAL                       3.0         13.0         21.0                 23.5                        52.8
FEMALE                     2.0          6.0         15.0                 14.2                        31.2
VOCATIONAL (I OF SECONDARY)             12.2          1.8          2.0                  5.2                        10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               42.0         34.0         40.0                 42.9                        31.9
SECONDARY                             15.0         21.0         25.0                 23.7                        23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 19.5/f       30.0         47.1                 37.1                        43,3
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              7.9          8.5          7.7/c               18.8                        18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             7.0         44.4         32.4                 97.8                       138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.3/f        1.4          3.9                 18.6                        45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                11.2         13.8          9.7                 18.2                        31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          0.9           ..          0,4/c                0.6                         1.7
LABOR FO1ICE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             3296.0       4314.0       6147.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     34.6          34.4         33.5                36.1                         10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 86.0         82.0         78.0                56.8                         42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     5.0          7.0         10.0                17.5                         27.8
PARTICIPATION RATF (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 40.3         38.3         35.4                 37.0                        25.6
MALE                                  53.3         50.9         47.5                47.1                         45.4
FDIALE                                27.5         26.1         23.5                27.0                          5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3          1.5                  1.3                         1.8
INC0BE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         20.2/i         ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         52.67i       60.4/j
_OWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                .3. 3.97                 2.67.
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         11.77         8.97.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  1.       .              I5O.O/e             534.2                        276.1
RURAL                                   ..           ..        112.07?             255.9                        177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        179.0/e             491.5                       400.0
RURAL                                   ..            .        IC6.07i             188.1                        283.3
ESTLMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..           .          1. 0.0/e               ..                        22.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..         55.0/e                 ..                        30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N o T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c 1977; /d 1975; /e 1978; /f 1962; /g 1976; /h Registered, not all practicing in the country; /i Urban only; L/ 1974.
May 1983



ANNEX I
-27 -                                                                              L 
DEFINITIfONS OF SOCIAL INDIC~ATORS
tote:  k1hi-Ooh the.ataa d       dram  frmso       sgnrally jodgd  th    otonhntto    n   ettbe                     nodas   entd  than'they say sot  e totornat tonall
comparablhecaoseof the ltIdof tanarizd defIni-onatn  -oncept  .sed.b diff-rent ronrc   I   oltn    h  dat.   Tb. dat   r,nnteea   stlo
.hs. feer   rop   e `I--,the.as -           -utop getup of the sabjot ronotry sod (2) a countrY tro-p tinh s-ah.n higher., rg   incom  tha                           the.anr   ropo   h
rssnlrt g-Ito-opeg.1
norP coupe. pos tursh.      kt  n   icengreso  t  lIefalhom.1960,rureinaunhltorte.
1970 and 1980I dana.                                                                 Po h.  Idulat inz    osia  te     ttl  oran  and Y coral            . Ppltion  toal
190.  190,an-181Osa.byatlee0on  ppar                                                                                          -t Osnblehm          dt prodingrlzrlrnatd
.Atttt  l ...lnTIn  o  CaPIf      ana   poetconylmo   oercieacl  atr   o   emnnl   tfe    papyto(o  by af sl-dtmi.
prmr   ory(oladlgie   erooC                   aua   o   n   yr-   ala Itanen  nurse, midetne, eto.  anio  ofe   o-a  et  omdn o 
-                              date,~~~~~~160                                                                                     from0hapt1a81 ddotded b  the. nu.ro   es
UrnanPnncltlnn  contet of  onal) Otft  of urba  no nool p-planino
dIfferent defiobninne of orbar treat tsayI Phfe-oE-ooparab..lty  of dona  10p010,
unn   uotie    90,17.  n   ol  eo                                   crm  Sa   O  othldrrco   elnunl) -  oa,  re,an   ua
tonal popuatio  by. ade IL d itoo .no  inet  soo         -t ardpfer to                             .to inuasho.d.for ...fna  punpoas-a.                              byI-i_
raise.70  yrjr  o   otenr   -mraiyras   opieodue                                                 orgne    of9persona prProte-tong . oht   o  rua  asag   ume
-Ieislath tuolc1-g  life) toeitn klth..If nS        ,ij- nretgobcntry.       e                      fproapnro   nluin    n   oaocpero toa
raltics  lrl   i   mol    fp-oeatynhlctn   t7.                                                     oLdgo  reeptoncodl. Ifmed.llo   eld   no-perannt  toonue-1                 m
nPU sAtiONg  zoIT ei   onl   acrlgn   ie    ne   n   an   aiyucgt    lcrc A1IpOrtent ofP oinm) -d  toa,ura,ad  us
coninamon   ofnoauyed  rt1 fi oed   u   rjc ion1;16.  90  -puroe.n na,ubn  and1 ruralidoel I -                                         ngd  rem pact Itsp
dnotiunarn  orulenton   -It a atanoneop pfpulicon thereis.nog....
enc h  brhrte Ia  total)n  the1 deat  rune  an  also, nP  age                     E.tOCb-ufTbd
nlt   f  Fn  ouglni   heyu   00   n   tont   Pdncno 20oo  nnadu-r. fIdOofr-i eAthto  primry  ducaion  fru.
Yos  naniror  ppuanon10recid    To  ea  tenetniray tItosoe  ayloar80ln  o                                                 Iaon  tie ...fP.t.l sotoo  ag.
poultI  ion. aloe  byl  he. r-nd  .     hnndI.                                                              chol-.otl,sae  ndtoole-  omutd nItos;seonar
mr en. cm.  - Old-yerpplno   e   qOmkioos   LShnao  P---ch. dh.                                               gnrlnoAr ....u.  P. orna.d irtnn   nt                 in   o
Per en  Pt. urlnulooul lad 1-  CoptddOtonfoEgiulua    an                                        oza ' yH oni ued
ony    90,17  ad10 P' fate.conaconl  nrlso                                                                           ren   fscnay    - P-atoa --ItOtotto
pnpulain;10,97,md(1 da--'ta.-t                                                                  runil-nntecierrnt- -fcr daro  an  seonar-onl...e..tolodO
Irudo 01mb lue (nor thuma di   anua  lice bIths pon thuua  fod
Cruda  eoni Ots (ze  choumod I -annua   deac d per  -hun  of md-yerPsegeiaeI_r  hnadrooait Ifeego005ccrs PIta
p.oPii    91,17,ad191dn.cr  snaIc I  dlocs, than migh-t pm    I...e etc  Ifde  amtul- ca    eatee end
Pr norali   -f rsrdutonprodi  sonprecsbreenniesYcifrnd otenoeetr  iusn   opltin   -gltya_o   eie.  a  rI                                                                         o
lenti by  rtes;  suall  OIo-noeaaoaendtg  n10,  95do                                       Ocdaooeoa   puli  per thosan  offpopola too;. soluason
1981.                                                                                 I minoan  ronsloern In nokaln..or-iam and If  PI  in pears  ~thretralondn
kl mtnr  0:0   II-nnonPlIl bupuo                                                                                 Ifon   unio  iro  1h7to  po WoIoI-fbu   i       rg
PrPn) anon ALIn 1111  ...lanco                                                                                           al:st-olInaolon'uprdhicaa  aeiel
Codu  .. ncinarpo   al.Cmo lireamanprmaygods)oa.Co7m   nnalOnohuro  e If                                                      to  neberBsdonnrhmhro
homd  orn ocl  arag   pndre   prIc  or -noI16-5  1(,ad1S
data.                                                    10000 FItCh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.                                   t.h
zcrpqIoenr  nrfn   oy  e  matbrt   onrrprnp0   e                                                    ore   n   nsiyd'  boo1 atidingd.  bocals  stdets  et                 h.oooo
ag in   o   ltio  o   Ppplnn,an   ltig11preofrmssIdo  I cement-I ~p- laorfoce  o                                                                     bung,zetoc Io,-ad ano  n
at heuahol  leel  961-5    97 n19981Ianfuu  occrclp,man  andltpPL zact                                                                        :"Iceta'  nttllno   nc;I9
Percm   PtIanlon  coei  arm   re   a)-yoanctetnPprnpn10tO18   na
nec  uppl  of  oodper  ep.   on1tpp1  offnd  sdfnd  cuot                                 attornintt    nreo      oa,  ae   n   eae-ctoiioe
pLISo  rti,o   hc   fgaomudb  acdioul prnl.   hs                                                   1960,  970, and 1981 daa. Tnnramlto   o                    artipatonae
monaraoc   cortantos   f  5gam    f  uulpostao  1grt              efmn o  ato   ou         Iudo   t   opimno,an   ogtisyed'.
of anal  promcnatanaera5o  for  in oct10,propoenc  p rucin ti  too ronioomo are fos rationl sourr            If
Thrtlrd   o -t- p1       9b-i   P d0,-0pi.   1900 daa.ij                                     icoontin-    i Os Ef-eIc  tul-   .Ratoo   ouaioudrf  n   bedoe
Per ralspuenancpfn   nmlan   ut-tt                            ooniy  f  ondth  totu- ~blach dorke...i
dooied fromtoluloan  pul"tr  nons   pody I9h-f-i 197  and_t 19771 i-    fI  r--
o-noI`Th                                                r`-                                       YtP-  -1000  109
Iie-netnnu  9m -cas -.ib   unog  nse  of years -      of- lifed re-unin                 '~fThTTtif neomro                  trpappo f- ta   ... eeooe   fpo- tykrl.n
an'l birth  1960 ...AgfO.t aod 1991                      Ifa_uh                                    obo-lo ho  IIntrreei ot  o tdrt                  - uoton
Ionnoornuinyao)cethoaaoi-nnuc  danh  ofnfntaode   on                             niiecodgouocrnononIoceslo_tYbrertooal-ur                            -nednumi
you. ofag   pePtnsno1cmhono  150,  971an 198165 duna.    Ido   eporryIcoelo   t   occco9lml  eo    uh1                                                                      iia
ancee o  bO   Omir )eonoc f:I   roclalul   roal  nbr ad   in   -toOth  -oa F odonhc-IdInt  _ieesnIl  r-odrqor_nti   o
uanooo dly incluaednrea-zd  suttHa     I-nootect  nontt,tII                                  ismnotte  niztn  PnstoInceI.....  ....   P.i-obaanroa
RIo..r........    am  t      " FA becnae   foninrma-phyr in pocgilel -d c on, c-InAon It.ut.                        o  tie count IIry       1. Urbn lne  Is .eroe  fro  the rurl
uranart   pubich. :fourtano   ncpmnlcodntmoeta 0I                     etr                     eno    adjutmen   Ifoin hot cot  flIn   n  rbs
brass.  -pruta f or-oatraoocabpeaodey)n-uP-fmply---tIbe ...eo-fe-                                aIrua-I  Peren  of  pploo    utnnouaituaeaa
the. da   n  ecIn,    h f  amily' teeter neds.   S.iiyt..                                                                  ;I   .Pdf I   :.   .
anetooone-           DsIm.lcrnnnodnrlstof-nn.,rhn.n
rural-Ncmhernfpmoplejooinl,urbao.  acorurmil~~P.    .   e.. od....r.t
diposelac-         .   ~i pecenam    of . -clspcide b,    p91 eolone .                                                       aloTh--onad-flmposal.
say.o.ud     ....cole tin   an   dipoal g ttI  oranhu   tetmo    of                                                            Onoonl1-end Noda IIta Dinte-Ino
prtotssaodcisiiR-on  ROosoaPiohtm-os.                                                                                                                  Map INt d65O          d-



-  28   -                                                   Page 4
Population:    16.467 tidllf     (1981)
Gh Pfer Capita: US$430 (1981)
KEYA - EMIfC INDICAI
Indicator                                   1980
Anount            _              Arusl Gradth Rate (8)
(million USS at                                       Actual
current prices)      17        1977               1979    1980      1981       19a/
2tioal Acemts
Gross dastic product at m.p. bl            6992.2             2.1      9.5       7.4      4.2      2.4      4.5         2.1
Agriculture                          1948.3             1.9      10.0      4.2     -1.0    -1.2        6.2        4.0
Irdustry                             1304.8            -0.4     13.1      10.9      6.8      3.8       3.3       -2.0
Services                             2732.9             4.:.     5.8       7.0      7.5      4.7       4.5        3.0
Consumptiou                                3962.4           -3.5       7.9      15.3      6.6      2.3      3.5       -2.3
Gross Inwestment                           1882.0            .2.0     35.9      23.9    -24.8    17.3   -12.7          -2.8
Exports of GNFS                            1980.5             6.3      5.6      -4.3     -8.3      5.2     -4.0        -3.9
Imports of GMFS                           2832.8            -2.'      18.3      26.6    -19.8      8.9    -15.7       -17.6
Gross National Savirgs                     985.1             17.0     64.6    -27.4    -27.1    64.6       11.4        18.7
Prices
GDP deflator (U)S$ deflator)          100.0            71.2     83.6      85.7     91.9   100.0       92.6       89.6
Exchange rate (KSh./IJS$)            7.4202           8.367    8.277    7.729    7.475    7.420    9.048       10.922
Share of GDP at Mcrket Prices (Z)                         Average Anwal Inrese ()
(at current prices)                                     (at constant prices)
1974    1979    1980    1981    1982    198'5  1990          1974-79     1981-86     1983-88     1985-90
Gross dhetic prnduct        10(.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   10XL0   100.0  100.0              4.7        3.3          4.6         5.0
Agriculture                35.4    34.3    32.5    32.9    33.5    33.S   32.1              4.2        3.6          3.8         3.9
Irdiustry                  20.7    26.1    21.8    21.6    20.7    20.3   21.1              6.2        2.4          5.1         5.9
Services                   43.9    39.6    45.7    45.5    45.8    45.9   46.7              5.4        3.5          5.0         5.4
GooanaLtion                  81.5    84.2    85.3    83.2    79.6    78.6   76.1              6.3        2.3          4.0         4.3
Grss invetoet                25.8    22.7    26.9    22.5    21.4    21.7   21.8              2.6        3.0          5.4         5.1
Exports GNFS                 33.7    25.5    28.3    26.1    24.6    24.9   25.5              2.7        2.7          5.0         5.6
T.ports (NWS                 40.9    32.4    40.5    31.8    25.6    25.3   23.4              -         -0.3          3.8         3.3
Gross national savings       14.5    13.0    12.1    13.7    16.0    16.7   19.6              0.6        7.8          6.8         8.4
As 7 of (IF
19~74   19T _    qF-- 1980    B81     w5
FB0LIC FRANCE c/
arrent revues                                    16.0    24.7    24.8    24.6    21.7
awrent eitures                                   14.3    22.5    23.0    24.0    21.3
Surplus (+) or deficit -)                         1.8      2.2     1.8      0.7     1.5
Capital expendlture                               6.1     9.7    10.1    10.0       8.9
Foreign fiirMcing                                 2.0      4.2     5.4      4.5     3.7
1974-79        1981-86       1983-88       1985-90
IlE NDICARC8
GNW growth rate (Z)                          4.9             3.2           4.6           5.0
GNW per capita grosth rate (Z)               1.0           -0.7            0.8           1.2
Energy camnpton Waxth rate (Z)               4.9             2.0           2.8           3.0
IC1R                                         7.8             6.4           4.7           4.3
arginl Savizl rate                           0.26            0.31          0.26          0.31
1wort elasticity                            -0.4            -0.1           0.8           0.7
share of Tnade with               Share of Trade with             Share of Traie with
Inustrial Countries (Z)           D          C      s (Z)         Oil Producing Countries (Z)
1970        1975       1980       1970         1975         980    1970          1975       1980
DIR0(IZ   CF TRAwE
Exporta                      62.7         52.7       44.8       23.5         27.8      34.9      0.4           0.8         1.3
Primary                    16.6         11.5         -       74.7          72.5        -       0.8           3.0         -
Mrsfactures                69.4         59.0         -        16.1         20.9        -       0.4           0.4         -
Imports                      75.4        64.2        57.6       14.9         23.8      11.8      2.8           8.1        29.6
a/ Preliry.                                                                                                                 My 1983
tv Capnts are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion ofE st indirect taes and subsidies.
F/l Gentral Government only.



- 29 -
Page 5
Population:    16.467 million (1981)
(NP Per Capita: US$430 (1981)
KEYA- EXTERNAL TRADE
Indicator                                    1980
Anunt                Arnnal Growth Rate (a) a/
(million US$ at                 Actual                                       Projected
current prices)   1976  1977  1978   1979    1980   1981    1982    1983   1984   1985   1990
EXIEAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                         1247.2        6.4   4.0  -7.7   -2.1       3.2   -2.9    -2.1    0.2    4.1    4.1    5.6
Primary /b                                963.4        12.4   9.0  -3.7      4.8   -7.3   -2.9    -0.8   -0.8        4.3    4.3    5.4
Manufactures /c                            283.8        0.4  -5.4  -18.6   -3.1    29.6   -2.6    -8.0    5.0    3.0    3.0    6.5
Fercharidise imports                        2612.2       -3.8   22.0  16.4  -18.3   14.7  -16.6    -19.0   -0.5    4.1    4.8    3.2
Food /d                                   111.2         5.3   3.0  70.0  -19.2   57.6  -13.0   -25.0  -10.0    1.5    1.2    1.0
Petrolemn /e                              778.6        -8.3    4.0   2.9    0.9   16.7  -16.7   -19.0   -3.0    2.0    2.0    3.0
Machinery and equip-nent /f               706.4       -16.7   36.0  29.4  -28.4   19.0  -22.0   -10.0   -0.8         6.2    4.5    4.1
Others                                    1016.0        -      -      -      -       -      -3.0   -24.1    2.6    4.3    7.2    2.9
PRICES /8
Export price index                                     73.2  102.8  81.2   83.7  100.0   89.9    87.6   89.1   95.2  101.7  144.8
Import price index                                     65.2  69.6  68.7   76.8  100.0  102.5   101.1  100.9  109.8  118.4  165.5
Terns of trade index                                  112.3  147.8  118.2  108.9  100.0   87.7    86.6  -18.3   86.7   85.9   87.5
Ccip)sition of Merchandise Trade (%)               Average Annual Increase (1)
(at constant 1980 prices)
1974   1979  1981   1982   1983   1985    1990    1974-79    1981-86    1983-88    1985-90
Exports
Primary                                  71.0   83.0  82.6  83.7   82.9  83.3   83.0             2.1        2.5       4.8        5.3
Manufactures /c                           29.0   17.0  17.4  16.3   17.1  16.7   17.0          -11.3        1.9        4.3       5.7
Imports
Food                                      6.6    5.3   4.4   4.1    3.7   3.5    3.1           -10.4      -5.5        1.2        1.0
Petroleum                                21.2   23.7  28.5  28.5   27.7  26.5   26.0             2.8      -2.3        2.6        3.0
Machinery and equipment                  22.8   35.5  26.5  29.4   29.3  29.8   30.8             1.7        1.4       4.4        4.0
Others                                   49.4   35.5  40.6  38.0   39.2  40.2   40.1              ..      -0.1        4.5        3.3
/a Historical growth rates are based on 1976 prices; projected growth rates on 1980 prices
/b  Based on keighted quantun indices (base year - 1976) of food, live animals, and cruide materials
/c  Excluides petroleun products. Value of manufactured exports are deflated by international inflation index to arrive at constant srice
series.
/d  Based on quantum index (base year = 1976) for SIIC 0.
/e  Based on quantun index (base year = 1976) for SITC 3.
/f  Based on quantum index (base year = 1976) for SIIC 7.
/g  Indices for historical years (1976-80) are based in 1976; those for projection years are based in 1980.



- 30
ANNE I
POPg 6
Population:    16.467 mllllcn (1981)
GNP Per Capita: iS$430 (1981)
IZNYA - BAINE (IF PAD   SIE     i8AL CAPiTAL AN) IDR
(iU1ion US$ at curtec: prices)
Actual                                              ?%cs
1976    1977    197a 17              18        1/    1983                      i5 
A1ANME OF PAYlEIS
Exports of goods and services           1184.6  1614.9  1581.0   1629.6   2032.8   1788.6    1686.0   1779.4           2240.1      4073.6
of which: v*rchamiise f.o.b.           743.9  1130.9   955.8   1017.5   1242.5   1C88.5    1039.1   1057.7            13l.2      2416.4
Imports of goods and services           1300.3  1653.9  2332.6   2206.8   3069.4   2569.0    2193.1   2203.3           2812.0      4617.6
of ukich: Merchandise c.i.f.           975.0  1279.0  1875.7   1779.2   2632.8   2243.1    1793.6   1779.4            2278.8     3755.9
Net transfers                             32.3    66.5    91.1.    100.1    139.6        89.6       78.4     83.1        93.4       125.0
CurrzTt Acctunt m alance                 -83.4    27.5  -660.6   -477.0   -897.0   -t90.8    -428.7   -340.8           -418.6      -419.1
Private direct inves-Int                  37.7    54.5    32.1       66.4      61.2      60.6       60.6      64.2       71.1        96.6
M&LT loians (net)                        111.9   145.6   410.1    412.5    515.3        3S6.3      339.3    276.3        444.9      373.2
Official                                -    -    -                -         -         -          -        -           -           -
Private                                 -    -    -                -         -         -          -        -           -           -
Other Capital                             19.1    44.7    17.6    187.0    125.9    110.1            1.5       1.5         1.5        1.5
(ange in reserves                        -85.3  -272.3   200.8   -188.9    194.6    133.8          -32.7     -1.3       -40.1       -52.1
International Reserves                   425.9   698.2  4'7.4    686.3    461.5    i27.7           360.4    361.7       437.8       663.5
Reserves as months imorts                  4.3      5.2      3.8      5.1       2.9       1.5        2.0       2.0        1.9         1.7
EB1RAL CAITAL ANDi DMS
Cross Disbursemets                       180.9   231.6   285.1    376.8    420.8    577.4
Official grants fb                      -       -        -         -         -
Goncessional loans                      63.3    64.7   104.5    149.9    179.6    15B.8
DAC                                   46.1    33.7    54.0       94.0      81.2    106.1
OPEC                                  -        -       -         -         -          9.9
IA                                    13.6    17.7    16.3       21.5      71.6      14.8
Other                                  3.6    13.3    34.2       34.4      26.8      .'.0
tNort-cocessional loans                  117.6   166.8   180.6    226.8    241.2    4]8.6
Official export credits               18.8    11.0    17.6        8.5      10.1      16.8
IBiRD                                 66.7    34.7    42.3       36.7      40.0      62.4
Other official c/                      2.1    11.5      7.6       4.8      21.0      49.3
Private                               30.0   1C9.6   113.1    176.8    170.0    290.2
Exteroal Debt
Debt outatasiring and disbrsed       700.8   917.2  1083.7   1433.2   1743.8   2566.6
Official                           605.2   709.6   792.8    977.6   1179.6   1402.6
Private                             95.6   207.6   290.9    455.6    564.2   1074.0
Ui,disbursed debt                    629.1   780.7  1056.6   1252.8   13D4.5   1251.2
Debt Service dl
Total service paymrets                65.3    74.6   121.6    120.2    183.0    313.9
Interest                            31.8    39.6    52.4       70.6    104.5    122.7
Payments as % of exports               5.7      4.8      7.9      7.6       9.2      17.5
Average interest rate on nre loans (%)
Official                               4.5      4.0      4.0       3.8      3.0       4.5
Private                                7.7      7.7      7.7      12.0      8.0      14.0
Average sturity of rtew loans (years)
OfficAl                               26.0    30.0    2S.0        32.0     32.0      30.0
Private                                9.5    11.9    13.0       11.9       5.9       9.0
As X of Debt Oatstarding
at es  of 1982
h6turity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 yewrs
haturitles due within 10 years                            8.0
Interest structure of debt oxtstardirE
Interest due within first year
/a  Preliwinary
/b  Official grants are included in transfers In the slance of psyments airrent accuxrt. Transfers are projected to  8m  at an arul rate
of 6%
/c  Includes use of IMF resoures
/d Includes Yanya's  notional share of 45X of EAC debt.
fty 1983
tEAWh



- 31 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 1
rHE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1984
USS Million
Loan or                                                             Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit 0    Year   Borrower    Purpo,e                             Bank 1/  TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty (20) Loans and Twenty-five (25) Credits and two (2)
Third Window Loans Fully Disbursed                                413.78          299.63
1184        1976    Kenya       Third Education                    10.00                    4.44
1304-T      1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                      17.00             5.55
1305        1977    Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.00                    2.29
1449        1977    Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.00                   19.70
750        1978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                               10.00    6.04
1520        1978    NCC         Second Urban Water Supply          30.00                    1.02
791       (1978   (Kenya      (Secondl Urban                                     25.00  (10.19
(1550       (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                       25.00                  (25.00
797        1978    Kenya       Fourth Education                                  23.00   13.05
1636        1979    Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation               14.00                    5.97
1637        1979    Kenya       Rural Water Supply                 20.00                   19.53
858        1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                     13.00   11.32
1680        1979    Kenya       Telecommunications                 20.00                    3.07
1684        1979    Kenya       Highway Sector                     90.00                   32.45
914        1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                    27.00   24.40
959        1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                      12.00    8.61
962        1980    Kenya       Baringo Semi-Aird Areas                             6.50    5.33
1799        1980    Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.00 2,                    5.33
1817        1980    IDB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.00                   18.95
1045        1980    Kenya       Export Promotion Technical Asst.                    4.50    4.35
1051        1980    Kenya       Fisheries                                          10.00    9.98
1107        1981    Kenya       Fifth Education                                   40.00   33.38
1976        1981    Kenya       Railway                            58.00                   28.06
(1143       (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture                                 10.00    7.05
(1995       (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture                 25.00                   25.00
2065        1982    Kenya       Petroleum Exploration               4.00                    1.22
(2098       (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry III 4/                    21.50                   21.50
(1213       (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry III                                       16.00   12.10
1237        1982    Kenya       Cottorn Proc. & Marketing 4,                       22.00   19.77
1238        1982    Kenya       Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning 4/                               23.00   20.36
2155        1982    Kenya        Second Telecommunications         44.70                   25.96
1277        1983    Kenya       Agric. Technical Assistance 4/                     6.00    4.28
2237        1983    Kenya       Olkaria Geothermal Expansion    12.00   -            -     12.00
1387        1983    Kenya       National Extension 4/                              15.00   13.38
(2319       (1983    Kenya      (Secondary Towns                     7.00                    6.98
(1390       (1983    Kenya      (Secondary Towns 4/                                22.00   21.71
2359        1983    Kenya       Kiambere Hydroelectric 3/          95.00                   95.00
Total                            997.98 17.00  584.63  583.32
of wh*ich has been repaid        85.12   .88    4.70
Total now outstanding            912.86 16.12  579.93
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               912.86 16.12  579.93
V                                      TOTAL undisbursedi                            353.47  5.55  224.30  583.32
|/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan 5-12 ($9.0 million).
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed irn dollar equivalents of SDR's.



- 32 --
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of March 31, 1984
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bank 1/   Undisbursed
-----US$ million-----
Nine loans fully disbursed                            228.93
1204-EA    1976    EADB        Second Dev. Finance   14.97           0.03
Total                                              243.90         0.03
of which has been repaid                           91.63
Total now outstanding                              242.27
Amount sold                             24.36
of which has been repaid               24.36       0.00
Total now held by Bank                            242.27
Total undisbursed                                    0.03         0.03
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
March 31, 1984
Fiscal Year    Obligor                        Type of Business             Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties        Hotels                        5.2      0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977, 1979
and 1981        Pan African Paper Mills       Pulp and Paper               22.2      6.3     28.5
1972            Tourism Promotion
Services                      Hotels                        2.4      -        2.4
1976            Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.   Textiles                        6.3     2.8       9.1
1977            Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.  Capital Market                  2.0      -        2.0
1980            Development Finance
Company of Kenya Ltd.        Development Finance          4.6      1.3       5.9
1981            Kenya Commercial Finance    Money & Capital Market          5.0      -        5.0
1982            Bamburi Portland              Cement & Construction
Cement Co., Ltd.              Material                    4.4       -        4.4
1982            Diamond Trust of Kenya
Limited                      Money & Capital Market         -      0.8       0.8
1982            Industrial Promotion.
Services (Kenya) Ltd.        Money & Capital Market        -       0.6       0.6
1983            Tetra Pak Converters
Limited                      Pulp & Paper Products         2.2     0.:3      2.5
1984            Leather Industries of
Kenya Limited                Tanning                      1.7      0.65      2.3
Total Gross Commitments                                   56.0    13.4       69.4
less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                                18.2      1.83    19.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC                         37.8    11.7       49.5
Total Undisbursed                                          6.4      0.7       7.1



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
OKLARIA GEOTHERMAL EXPLORAT'ION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)      Time taken by the country to                 13 months
prepare the project:
(b)      Agency which prepared project:               KPC, MOERD, IDA
(c)      Project first presented to IDA:             August 1982
(d)      First IDA mission to review
project:                                    August 1982
(e)      Departure of appraisal mission:              September 1983
(f)      Completion of negotiations:                 April 1984
(g)      Planned date of effectiveness:               September 1984
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  As special conditions of effectiveness: (i) establishment and staff.nu
of KP&L's Geothermal Section and appointment of the Section's Director
(para. 54); (ii) the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between
Government and KPC (para. 63);
(b)  Results of exploration to date and future drilling would be reviewed
annually by the Borrower, KPC and IDA. T'his review would determine
whether continued exploration would be justified (para. 65);
(c)  The location and drilling program for eac.h well would be reviewed and
agreed between KPC and IDA (para. 65);
(d)  For the Eburru component, before undertaking appraisal/delineation
drilling, the results of the four exploratory wells would be reviewed



- 35 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
by KPC, MOERD and IDA to determine whether continuation of drilling is
justified (para. 65);
(e) IDA would be consulted before fields explored under the proposed
project would be developed (para. 49);
(f) By December 31, 1985 the Government would discuss with IDA recommenda-
tions included in the proposed geothermal subsector study, and would
implement appropriate recommendations by December 31, 1986 (para. 63).
Jq



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
1983-85 Foreign Assistance to Geothermal Sector
Donor                    Item
France          Magnetotelluric Survey in Olkaria
(BEICIP)
Italy           I geophysi'cist (3 years)
I analytical chemist (2 years)
I microseismic network
30 man-months of short-term consultants
Japan           1-slim ho;Le rig by 1984 with funding of
drilling supplies for 2 deep slim wells
U.K.            1 shallow well rig
1 senior geologist (3 years)
1 junior geologist (3 years)
I consulting geologist (1 year)
Short-term consultancies
1 drilling engineer (30 months)
Supplies for one shallow well
UNDP            total US$2.4 million, including:
60 man-months geothermal geologist
36 man-months geophysicist
26 man-months geochemist
54 man-monlths short-term consultants
administrative support, training,
including 8 fellow-ships
$860,000 of equipment (lab, 5 vehicles,
geophysical equipment, camping
equipment).
USA             Scholarships for training in the US
Landsat maps



- 37 -
ANNEX V
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IDA/FY             Quarter              Quarterly                Cumulative
1985                  I                       .1                      .1
II                      .1                      .2
III                    2.0                     2.2
IV                     3.3                     5.5
1986                 I                       2.6                     8.1
II                     2.6                    10.7
III                    2.6                    13.3
IV                     2.6                    15.9
1987                 I                       2.6                    18.5
II                     2.5                    21.0
III                    1.0                    22.0
IV                     1.0                    23.0
1988                 I                       1.0                    24.0
II                      .5                    24.5



- 38 -
KENYA                                                         ANNEX VI
GOETH.    EXPLOR.  PROJECT
CAPITAL  COST       ESTIMATE
(US$  000       EQUIV.)
1984                1985                 1986                 1987                      TOTAL
Component                       FX     Local        FX    Local          FX    Local          FX    Local         FX    Local       Total
EBURRU
8 Exploration Wells                 0          0      1717       534      1717        534         0         0      3434       1068      4502
Water Supply System                 0          (0      778       320          0         0         0         0        778       320      1098
Rig mobilization                    0          0       750       100         0          0       750       100       1500       200      1700
Rig use                             0          0      1700       170      186r)       180         0          0     3500        350      3850
Drilling Management Ass.            0          0       360        72       360         72         0          0       720       144       864
Geothermal Engineering              0          0       150        30       150         30       150        30       450         90       540
Geochem/Geophys Surveys            15       ib0         30       1Q20        ;0       120        30       120        105       520       625
Geothermal Unit IMDERD)             0        4i0         0        i30        0         80         0        gO          0       280       260
Subtotai                           15       200      5485       1426      4057      1016        930       330     10487      2972      13459
OLKARIA
12 AppraisaliDel. Wells             0         0      2143        817      2144       E17          0         0      4287      1634       5921
Directional Drillinq                0         0          0         0       6410      255        640       255      1280        510      1790
Rig Supplies. Parts, Fuel         168        74        336       1419      336        149       336       149      1176        521      1697
Drilling Management Ass.            0         0       450         90       450         90       450        90      1350        270      1620
6eothermal Enqineering              0         0        150        3,0      150         30       150        30       450         90       540
Rig Crew                            0       102          0       204         0        204         0       204          0       714       714
Subtotal                          168       176      307?       12?0      37.20     1545       1576       728      8543      3739      12282
Energy Studies
Geothermal Sector Study             0          0       100        20       100         20         0         0       200         40       240
Domestic Gas Market Study           0         0        100        20       100         20         0         0       200         40       240
Oil Shale Study                     0         0        100        20       100         20         0         0       200         40       240
Subtotal                                      ^       30          SJv        d  13                                   ,  L'
Base Cost Estimate                183       376      8864       27776     807       2621       2500      1058    19630        6831     26461
Physical Contingencies             18        38        886       278       808        262       251       106      1963        683      2646
Subtotal                          201       414      9750       3054      8885      2883       2757      1164    21593        7514    29107
Price Continnencies                 5        27       745        604      1494       785        753       565      2997      2200       5197
Total Project Cost                207       440     10495       3658     10378      31368      3510      1749    24590       9715    34304
X                        d~~~~~~~~~~.6oX  1.3%    30.6X  I0,7Z    710i.3%    11.3,X    1v.2t      5.1      71.1%    28.3Z   IOd0.0X
Inflation rate p.a.             1.035    1.130      1.080      1.120    1.090      1.120     1.090      1.120
Cospound Irnflation Rate        1.026    1.065      1.076      1.198    1.168      1.342      1.273     1.503



- 39 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
GOETHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Geological and Engineering Annex
EBURRU PROSPECT AREA
1.       The Eburru geothermal prospect is located in the Rift Valley
Northwest of Lake Naivasha and Southwest of Lake Nakuru and includes the
area of Lake Elmentaita. The area consists mostly of volcanic rocks
erupted and ejected during the late pleistocene and younger geological
time. Most of the volcanic rocks are acidic/alkine and no sedimentary
rocks have been identified within the prospect area. The area has been
highly fractured with North-South trending faults, and along the faults
large lava domes have developed. These domes consist mostly of pumice,
obsidian, basalt scoria where numerous steam fumaroles have been observed
and well documented in the "Pre-feasibility Study for the Rift Valley
Geothermal Development Project in the Republic of Kenya" of January, 1933
by the Japan International Cooperation Agency and also in Reports No. 55
and No. 78 of the Geological Survey of Kenya, the first titled "Geology of
the Naivasha Area" by A. 0. Thompson M. Sc. and R. G. Dodson M.Sc.
Geologists published in 1963 and the second "Geology of the Nakuru -
Thompson Falls - Lake Hanningtona/ Area" by G.J.H. McCall B. Sc, ARCS PhD,
D.I.C., F.G.S. Geologist published in 1967.
2.        The Eburru geothermal prospect around Eburru Peak (elevation
9365' = 2854.31 meters above medium sea level) is marked by gentle dipping
topography towards the North, the East and towards the South where the
elevation then averages some 6562 ft (2000 meters) which is considered the
bottom of the Rift Valley. Lake Naivasha has an elevation of 6200 ft.
(1889.7 meters) above medium sea level, Lake Elmentaita of 5830 ft. (1776
meters) above medium sea level and the northernmost lake in this area, Lake
Nakuru, of only 5776 ft (1760.4 meters) above medium sea level, clearly
raising the hypothesis that in this area the hydro-dynamic level tilts
toward the North. The Eburru Prospect Area is believed therefore to have
the hydro-dynamic level somewhere between 6200 ft (1889.7 meters) above sea
level and 5830 ft (1776 meters) above sea level, corresponding to the
elevations of Lake Naivasha and Lake Elementaita. This hypothesis has been
confirmed by numerous water wells that have been drilled in the area and
reported extensively in the two geological reports referred to earlier in
this discussion. Up to 99 tboreholes have been drilled and recorded up to
1956 in the Lake Naivasha area while in the Lake Elementaita and Lake
Nakuru areas another 270 wells have been drilled and reported up to 1957.
a/   Now renamed "Lake Bogoria"



- 40 --
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
OLKARIA FIELD
3.       The ongoing geothermal project financed by the World Bank in the
Olkaria area has been delivering steam ont a continuing basis at 330
ton/hour to a geothermal plant since mid--1981. Some 26 producing wells
have been drilled with a cumulative deliverability of some 440 tonnes of
steam per hour. At such time, Olkaria East should have a cumulative
production delivery of some 465 T/hr of steam, which is the minimum
threshold for a total of some 50 megawatt:s of power.
4.       The Olkaria geothermal area is situated some 8 kilometers South
South West of Lake Naivasha. The area geologically consists mostly of
erupted and ejected volcanic rocks of the late Pleistocene and younger age
in the Rift Valley of Africa. This area has been highly fractured with
North-South trending faults, and along these fault planes large lava domes
have developed. It is precisely below one of these lava domes that the
Olkaria steam field has been discovered and developed. Analysis of the
wells indicates that steam appears to flow from the fractured pumice,
obsidian and basalt scoria which has been found to be permeable underneath
the dome. Pressure buildup analysis and gradients taken from the wells
indicate an active hydrodynamic source of water feeding the reservoir from
the North Northwest, most probably from Lake Naivasha.
5.       Three exploration wells called 1.01, 201 and 301 have been drilled
west of the Olkaria area. Well 101 has been tested at deliverability of
18.3 tonnes/steam per hour or at an equivalent of some 2.0 megawatts. Well
201 at first did not show any permeability and was considered dry/cold.
Following recommendations made during appraisal, the well underwent
additional testing: a compressor was utilized to push the drilling fluids
in the well into the reservoir and allow the steam to enter the well bore
to clean itself. The well is now producing at 2-3 MW. Well 301 is in the
process of completion and preliminary indications while drilling indicate
that this well would be a good producer.



- 41 -
Annex VIIL
Page 1 o-E 8
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Power Sector Companies
Operations and Finances
Introduction
1.       The public power sector in Kenya exclusive of rural electrification
is presently comprised of the activities of four companies - KP&L, TRDC, KPC
and TARDA. For convenience, tlhe term, KP&L companies, is used in this annex
to cover the joint activities of KP&L, TRDC and KPC. These companies are
closely connected through common management and staff. The financial
performance and position of the KP&L companies have been consolidated as these
companies are very closely associated. In addition, Tables 1-3 show past and
projected financial statements of Kenya Power Company who would be the
subborrower for the Olkaria component. The analysis in this annex is based on
the Appraisal of the Kiambere Hydroelectric Power Project (Reports P-3671-KE
and 4366-KE) and has been updated as required in some areas.
Past Financial Performance
2.       The operations of the KP&L companies from 1979 though 1982 based on
audited annual accounts are summarized below (in KSh million unless otherwise
stated):
1979      1980       1981       1982
Units sold (million KWh)                   1409.4    1468.6    1592.5    1631.3
Average revenue per KWh (KSh)                   .41       .48        .58        .63
Revenue                                     573.8      701.5      902.0    1020.5
Operating Expenses                          234.4 a!  487.4 a!  497.8 a!  686.7
Operating Income                        234.4      214.1      422.2      333.8
Less: Interest Expense                      102.3       97.7      104.6      117.7
Other Income (Expense)                  (18.2)      31.8    (172.9)   (167.2)
Net Income                                  113.9      148.2      144.7       48.9
Rate of Return Revalued Base (%)              7.9        6.4       11.6        7.2
a/ This reflects historical cost depreciation as reflected in audited
accounts; however, operating expenses have been adjusted for rate of
return computation purposes to reflect depreciation on the revalued assets
basis.



- 42 -
Annex VIII
Page 2 of 8
3.       As shown above, the consolidated rates of return for the three
companies for the years 1979-1982 were 7.9%, 6.4%, 11.6% and 7.2%
respectively. These results reflect an adequate earnings position which in
1981 was substantially above the 7% earnings requirement of Loan 1799-KE. The
Government has approved an increase in tar.iffs in 1983 so as to further
improve the earning position of the companies.
4.       Net income for the years 1981 and 1982 have been significantly
decreased due to exchange losses resulting from currency revaluation. These
currency rate fluctuations have also had acdverse effects on the foreign
currency debt of the three companies. Previous Bank power loans have a rate
of return covenant including provision for annual pro forma revaLuation of
assets on a price index agreed between KP&L and the Bank, which would reflect
the increases in the replacement cost of fixed assets due to currency rate
fluctuation as well as inflation. In the past, KPC has complied with the
financial covenants in the loan agreements with the Bank and no changes are
therefore required in the proposed credit.
5.       The consolidated financial position of the KP&L companies based on
audited accounts are summarized below (in KSh million):
1981       1982
Assets
Net Plant in Operation (revalued)                           3,661.1   4,172.5
Plant under Construction                                      655.8      903.4
4,316.9   5,075.9
Other Assets                                                   18.6       17.0
Current Assets                                                489.3      636.7
Total Assets                                             4,824.8   5,729.6
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                                     2,729.4   2,899.2
Long-term Debt                                             1,850.5   2,475.4
Current Liabilities                                           244.9      355.0
Total Equity and Liabilities                             4,824.8   5,729.6
Current Ratio                                                     2.0        1.8
Debt Equity Ratio                                               40/60      46/54



- 43 -
Annex VIII
Page 3 of 8
6.       The working capital positions of the three companies at December 31,
1981 and 1982 are acceptable with current ratios of 2.0 and 1.8, respectively,
due primarily to good control of debtors; accounts receivables amounted to
about two months' billing.  The cash position at end 1982 was very low but is
expected to improve during the project period. To address temporary cash
shortages, KP&L has available a short term line of credit with local
commercial banks to provide necessary funds.
7.       KPC's financial forecasts are given in Tables 1-3 and summarized.
below (in KSh Million) for selected years:
1984      1985       1987
Sales Revenues                                      107.1      170.3     193.1
Development Surcharge                                63.6       39.7       23.5
Total Income                                      170.7     210.0      216.6
Operating Expenses (including interest)             123.4      159.2      211.6
Net Income                                           47.3       50.8        5.0
Cash Generation                                     134.2      169.0      166.6
Total Borrowing                                     244.4       79.8       96.8
- of which proposed project                           6.4       47.1       30.1
Total Assets                                       1736.5    1933.0    2361.7
Equity                                              712.2     869.8    1233.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                                    57.4       53.2      45.8
As shown in the above table, KPC is projected to remain in satisfactory
financial position. Total borrowing over the 1984-87 period is expected to
total KSh 491.8 million of which onlending under the proposed credit would
account for about KSh 146.7 million or 29.8%.
Power Tariffs
8.       Based on a tariff study performed by the Bank in 1977, a tariff
structure, giving consideration to long-run marginal costs (LRMC), was
introduced in January 1979. A fuel oil surcharge has been added to allow KP&L
to recover any increase in the cost of fuel used in power generation.
9.       The commissioning of the Masinga Hydroelectric Station in December of
1981; the strengthening of transmission interconnection between the coast,
central and eastern areas of Kenya in 1983; and the planned commissioning of
geothermal and hydro generating capacity in the 1980s (Kiambere and Turkwel)
have changed and will substantially change the operating characteristics of
the power sector in Kenya. Therefore KP&L has recently carried out a new
tariff study based on LRMC and has obtained approval from Government for
appropriate revision of the tariff levels, which calls for a KC8 increase in
the average revenue per kWh every year, the first increase was effective
June 1, 1983 with subsequent inicreases every January 1. This tariff revision
program was confirmed by Government during negotiations of the Kiambere
Hydroelectric Power Project.



- 44 -
Annex VIII
Page 4 of 8
10.      KP&L has in the past assisted the financing of TRDC's and KPC's
construction programs by paying a development surcharge which provided local
currency funds for capital expenditure. The funds for this development
surcharge are obtained from the application of the tariff and are not
identified to the consumer. KP&L plans to utilize this practice to provide
local fund assistance to TARDA for Kiambere, to KVA for the construction of
Turkwel and to KPC for the proposed project.
11.      A tariff revision program has been agreed in connection with the
Kiambere project which would provide necessary funds during the project period
and would produce rates of return for the sector on revalued asset basis of
between 8% and 10% during 1984 and 1988. Under of the Kiambere project it was
agreed that Government would take, or cause to be taken, all actions necessary
to permit KP&L to obtain the necessary revenues to produce these rates of
return on the combined average net fixed assets of the sector excluding rural
electrification, revalued in accordance with the price index agreed to between
KP&L, TARDA and the Bank, and during the construction of the Kiambere project
to obtain revenues sufficient to contribute at least 15% of the total cost of
the project including interest during construction, duties and taxes. Under
the proposed project, the development surcharge would finance KPC's share of
the project cost, estimated at about 30% of the Olkaria component subtotal or
about US$3.7 million (base cost).
Organization and Management
12.      KP&L is a well-managed utility and is operated in accordance with
sound commercial principles. The Chief Executive, a Kenyan, is a competent
administrator. The Board of Directors consists of 11 members including the
Chief Executive and General Manager of the company and two government
representatives; the remaining members are leading Kenyan businessmen.
13.      In January 1978, the Montreal Engineering Company Limited submitted a
report entitled "Management and Accounting Consultancy Study" which contained
comments and recommended changes to the structure of the organization, the
accounting functions, and the management reporting systems of KP&L. In
general, the report found that the company was reasonably well organized but
suggested that certain activities might be better handled if assigned to other
departments. The introduction of many of the recommendations, including a
restructuring of the company by the creation of six functional divisions to
replace nine departments, took place on July 1, 1979.
Long-Term Development Plan
14.      During the preparation of the Gitaru Loan (1147-KE), it was foreseen
that generation of geothermal power at Olkaria was becoming attractive, and to
place it in a long-term perspective, funds were included for two separate



- 45 -
Annex VII:I
Page 5 of' 8
studies. As a result, Merz and McLellan (M&M) of the United Kingdom and the
Virkir Consulting Group Limited of Iceland submitted a report in which it was
concluded that development of the Olkaria site was economically justifiable
and would be part of the least cost program for meeting the growing power
demand. The results of this st:udy were incorporated into M&M's and Sir
Alexander Gibb's (Gibb) National Power Developmment Plan, 1978-2000, completed
in 1978.
15.      The National Power Development Plan contains a forecast of growth in
demand which necessitates further development of power supplies by 1984.
Funds for a feasibility study t:o determine whether a hydro, geothermal, or'
other conventional thermal projects should be undertaken were included as part
of the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project (LN 1799-KE in 1980). The study
recommended construction of the Kiambere hydroelectric project to be completed
in 1985. However, this project has been delayed while new engineering studies
were completed. The Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project was proposed
as a result of the delay and LN 2273--KE was approved on February 8, 1983.
16.      Kenya's future electric energy needs will be met by further
development of geothermal and hydro resources, or by thermal stations using
imported coal. While there has been an increase in the use of bagasse as a
source of energy in other countries, there has been little development of its
use in Kenya either for direct production of steam, or for the generation of
electricity. In the long term, some of Kenya's electrical energy may be
provided from neighbouring courntries. A recent updating of the long range
plan prepared by KP&L resulted in the following plant program for the years
1983-1990 (excluding investments in transmission, distribution and rural
electrification):
Start-up  MW         KSh        US$af      %
1.  Olkaria III                19,85       15       466         37.3      4.6
2.  Kiambere hydro             1988       140     4,625        353.8    43.4
3.  Turkwell hydro             1990       120     3,969        317.5    39.0
4.  Geothermal IV              1992        30     1,325         106.0    13.0
Total                          10,385        814.6   100.0
After updating of the above program had been completed in connection with the
Kiambere project, there are indications that the program may change in various
respects. The slow-down of power demand growth in Kenya in 1983 and 1984 may
ease the need for future plant additions. While preparation and
implementation of the Turkwel project may take longer than previously
expected, Geothermal IV may advance somewhat and may be designed in a larger
module to obtain better economies of scale. A least cost power development
study is under preparation and its objective is to help determine a power
development program for Kenya.
a/ Including interest during construction.



- 46 -                       Annex VIII
Page 6 of 8
Table 1
The Kenya Power Company Limdted
Income Statement for the Years
ending December 31, 1979-1987
(KSh million)
Actual        -                   Projected
1979    1980   .1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
OPERATING REVENUES
OPER & ADM                   30.7     8.5    10.8    14.4    18.5   20.7    25.2    30.5    34.2
INTEREST                      0.8     1.3     0.3    18.4    26.6    40.5    66.7    80.6    76.2
DEBT AMORT                    7.3     8.4     9.7      6.2    16.0   16.0   47.5    56.0    61.8
R & E FUND                    0.0     1.6     2.0      2.0     7.0    14.0    15.0    15.0     5.0
PURCHASED ENERGY              7.3    19.6    14.9    15.7    15.9    15.9    15.9    15.9    15.9
TOTAL SALES REV           46.1    39.4    37.7    56.7   134.0  107.1   170.3   198.0   193.1
DEV SURCHARGE                37.8    26.6    63.0    82.6   -14.7    63.6    39.7   23.6    23.5
TOTAL                     83.9    6.0   100.7   139.3       9.3   170.7   210.0  T221.6   2T6
OPERATING EXPENSES
OPER & ADM                    6.0     8.5    10.8    14.4    18.5    20.7    25.2    30.5    34.2
PURCHASED ENERGY              7.3    19.6    14.9    15.7    15.9    15.9    15.9    15.9    15.9
DEPRECIATION                  4.0     4.0     3.0    18.1    31.5    36.9    43.7    65.1    74.5
TAXES                        24.7   -24.7     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
TOTAL                      42.0     7.4    28.7    48.2   65.9    73.5    T48   111.5   124.6
OPERATING INCOME             41.9    58.6    72.0    91.1      3.4    97.2   125.2   110.1    92.0
OTHER INCOME NET              1.0     0.5   -30.5   -31.6   -10.3   -9.4    -7.7   -11.1   -10.8
NET INCOME BEF INT           42.9    59.1    41.5    59.5    -6.9    87.8   117.5    99.0    81.2
INT CHARGED OP                1.4     1.3     1.1    18.4    26.6   40.5    66.7    80.6    76.2
NET INCOME                   41.5    57.8    40.4    41.1   -33.5    47.3    50.8    18.4      5.0
-- :  =      ==-
a/  Development surcharge was principally designed to provide KPC with part of the funds
required to pay the local currency costs of its development projects as part of the cost
of electricity KP&L purchases from KPC and is determined each year in relation to its
respective devlopment activities. Development surcharge is tax deductible for KP&L
which is liable for 45% corporate income taxes. In 1982, the development surcharge of
KSh 82.6 million represented only a small part to finance KPC's local construction
expenditures. The bulk of the development surcharge represented KPC's foreign exchange
losses and appears in KPC's books as accounts receivable from KP&L (former EAP&L). In
1983 it was ruled that KPC's foreign exchange losses could not be part of the
development surcharge and the accounts receivables from KP&L was reduced accordingly
for that year.
April 1984



Annex '/III
- 47 -                              Page 7 of 8
Table 2
The Kenya Power Company Limited
Funds Statement for the Years
etnding December 31, 1979-1987
-    --    Actual                              Projected-
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1'386    1987
INTERNAL SOURCES
NET INCOME BEF IN             42.9    59.1    41.5    59.5    -6.9    87.8   117.5    99.0    81.2
DEPRECIATION                   4.0      4.0     3.0    18.1    31.5    36.9    43.7    6,5.1    74.5
GAIN/LOSS ON EXCH & OPER       0.0      0.0    32.1    54.0    10.4      9.5      7.8    1.1.2    10.9
INVESTMENTS                    0.0      0.0     0.0    10.7      0.0     0.0      0.0     (.0      0.0
TOTAL                       46.9    63.1    76.6   142.3    35.0   134.2   169.0   175F.3   166.6
OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS
CHAN'G WORK'G CAP.            23.0   -90.8    44.2    37.6   -60.1    -7.8    -8.4    -9.1    -8.2
DEBT SERVICE                   8.4      9.3    10.4    24.7    68.8    89.7   130.2   136.6   141.3
TOTAL                       31.4   -81.5    54.6    62.3       8.7    81.9   121.8   127.5   133.1
NET AVAILABLE
FROM OPERATIONS               15.5   144.6    22.0    80.0    26.3    52.3    47.2    47.8    33.5
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
ONGOING WORKS                 42.9   235.0   215.5   201.6    19.2    75.1    17.8    191.9        5.1
3RD UNIT                       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   216.3   182.3    45.6    11.7       0.0
4&5 UNITS                      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    94.4
PROPOSED PROJECT               0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     9.9    68.0    90.3    43.7
DRILLING                       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    71.9    57.2       0.0     0.0      0.0
R & E INVESTMENTS              6.0     0.9      7.9     0.0      7.0    14.0    15.0    15.0       5.0
TOTAL                     48.      5.9 :23.4   201.6   314.4   338.5   146.4  T-1.9   148.2
BALANCE TO FINANCE             33.4    91.3   201.4   121.6   288.1   286.2    99.2    89.1   114.7
FINANCED BY:
CDC 1&2 UNITS                  0.0    21.7    76.8    51.7    10.0       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
IBRD 1&2 UNITS                18.4    49.6   124.6    69.9    36.6    99.9        0.0     0.0     0.0
IBRD 3RD UNIT                  0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    89.6    56.0       3.0     1.4     0.0
EIB 3RD UNIT                   0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    70.4    36.3       3.3     0.0      0.0
CDC 3RD UNIT                   0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    34.0    45.8    26.4      6.3      0.0
PROPOSED IDA                   0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     6.4    47.1    63.1    30.1
OTHER                          0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    66.7
TOTAL BORROWING                18.4    71.3   201.4   121.6   240.6    44.4    79.8    70-.8    967
EQUITY                        15.0    20.0      0.0     0.0    47.5    41.8    19.4    18.3    17.9
TOTAL                       33.4    91.3   201.4   121.6   288.1   286.2    99.2    89.1   114.7
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE           5.6      6.8     7.4      5.8     0.5      1.5     1.3     1,3      1.2
April 1984



Annex VIII
- 48 -                                Page 8 of 8
Table 3
The Kenya Power Company Limited
Balance Sheets as of Decemiber 31, 1979-1987
(KSh million)
Actual-                             Projected
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
ASSETS
PLANT IN OPERATION 1/          152.1   152.4   518.4   836.7  1272.1  1507.2  2240.4  2560.7  2812.9
LESS: DEPRECIATION 1/           88.3    92.3    95.3   113.5   286.5   347.8   417.6   514.0   627.0
NET PLANT                       63.8    60.1   423.1   723.2   985.6  1159.4  1822.8  2046.7  2185.9
WORK IN PROGRESS               104.9   338.1   195.3    78.6   313.4   534.6    54.5    16.5   102.1
INVESTMENTS                      8.9      9.8    17.7      7.0    14.0    28.0    43.0    58.0    63.0
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH & BANKS                    6.4    -6.1      8.8    -0.5       1.2     1.1      1.1      1.1     1.0
INVENTORIES                     4.1     4.4      5.4      4.8     5.2      5.2      5.2     5.2      5.2
EAPL/TARDA                     34.2      0.0     7.5    64.4       7.2     5.5      3.7      1.9     1.8
OTHER                           6.5    33.2      2.7      2.3      2.7     2.7      2.7      2.7     2.7
TOTAL                        51.2    31.5    24.4    71.0    16.3    14.5    12.7    10.9    10.7
TOTAL                       228.8   439.5   660.5   879.8  1329.3  1736.5  1933.0   2132.1  2361.7
LIABILITIES
EQUITY
CAPITAL                        40.0    60.0    60.0    60.0   107.5   149.3   168.7   187.0   204.9
RETAINED EARNINGS              37.8    64.4    95.3   177.9   152.9   207.1   239.5   250.4   259.8
EXCH EQUAL RESERVE              4.5      1.5     0.1      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
CAPITAL RESERVE                12.1    38.9    41.7    45.2    52.2    66.2    81.2    96.2   101.2
SINKING FUND RESERVE           69.2    74.6    81.6    36.8    21.3        0.4      4.2     0        0
REVALUATION RESERVE             0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   205.5   289.2   376.2   513.2   667.5
TOTAL                      163.6   239.4   278.7   319.9   539.4   712.2   869.8  1046.8  1233.4
LONG TERM DEBT                  39.5   103.3   336.3   505.4   730.0   958.4   990.7  1005.5  1040.5
CUR'NT LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE               25.7    50.4    45.5    54.5    59.9    65.9    72.5    79.8    87.8
EAPL                            0.0    46.4      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0,0
TOTAL                        25.7    96.8    45.    54.5    59.9    65.9    72.5    79.8    87.8
TOTAL                       228.8   439.5   660.5   879.8  1329.3  1736.5  1933.0  2132.1  2361.7
DEBT/DEBT & EQUITY              19.4    30.1    54.7    61.2    57.5    57.4    53.2    49.0    45.8
1/ Plant in Operation and Depreciation are based on historical cost for years 1979 through 1982 and
on revaluation for years 1983 through 1987.
April 1984



IBRD 17667
1.36'                                                                           40                     NOVEMBER 1983
S U D A N                                                                                          KE KENYA
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
/L.
or0t                                                                                                             / E  T  H  I O  P I A/
!                                               Mo nk-- t
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eA A=Ed-ret                                                                                                                       j
.j !oorg                                                         I 1 
K*koE: dore-                                     0 '
rSrYA'c A                  oos0-- -                           ,dFIs
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~  -a Ksuu, Mlo,ea  , r ~                         ~    ~     '   - ~
- . HomoO                               c....n.  t 's  I:          er><T  x EeobJ   Kramtreb   Pr-eject oo s
KA  0       L     ser /       ~                            rcn,   K,,rane
~~~ < ~~~~\.  > . Mc h o \H 
N.~~9 ->> N0                          .         *~5     K,a                      Lo mIu
K                                                                                          AD
Geothermral  Prospects                                          '- 
A       Diesel  Power  Stations                              _'- vc0            _V -~ 
*       Steam   Power Stations                              2t                          \*M/td
-       Hydro  Power Stations                               -or   "
Gr Future  Hydro  Power Stsaions
_4-     _ _        220kv. Transmission Line (Under Construction)5"""
-..--- ,  132 kv. Transmission Lines (Under Construction)                                    Kwo e     Mambra                                     40
-      132 kv. Transmission Lines (Existing)                                \.                         40
66kv. Transmission  and  Distribution  Lines                       - .0JIBOUTI
-           33 kv. Distribution  Lines                                                                      SUDAN   (                  \SOMALIA
Rift Valley                                                                                                    ETHIOPIA
International Boundaries
O               100              200               300 KILOMETERS                                                LQGANDA)
Th,s map ha- been prep,red by The Iorld Bank's staff eadcs,veY fyr fh,   co h enon of
the readersandd  exoirrnen no- fhe - ofernar use of The World Bsnk and tho Infeora lana.                   -    .< RWAAi0A>
Frmanrce Znrnn'iron rhn denornrnarocrs rrOed and fire hnrunriarres shown or. ths rmap do nsf                <  i-JBURUNDI    '
mpy. on ihe cart of rhe World Ba-k and the Innreratoral Fli1ance Corpotra-o any Jcdgnen'                   err
otne legal niatus of any o-rnt- or any c-do-semnnt or an.ephence of Su-h bo-ndarres                  _ 1           TANZANIA
3[6'~~                                              -            r






IBRD 17669R
MARCH 1984
Th,s map has been prepared by
The World Bank's staff exclusively                                                               Z /   k e         N  o-vasha
for the convenience of the
readers and is exclusively for the
internal use of The World Bank
and the International Finance
Corporation. The denominations
used and the boundaries shown
on this map do not imply, on the
part of The World Bank and the
International Finance Corporation.
any judgment on the legal status
of any territory or any
endorsement or acceptance ot     
such boundaries
C~~~~~
_          X                        -'''        ./)                                 -
i,0~~~~~~~~h
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KENYA                                                                     300 4'0- ''                             O II
OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL PROSPECT  -100
Area  of  Resistivity  Anomaly  (i-m) 
*p     Areas of Steaming Ground                                                                                                         /./
Drilled  Wells   (Producers)                                          \~ .                                          
Dry  / Cold   Wells  (Non- Producers)
.2        Location  of  Future  Exploration  Wel s 
U         Power  Plant                                                                                                                       OIL  )
International  Boundaries                                                         -7t            reoir
-   RUNDI                              n         r
0            1           2           3            4           5                                                                          eon
__ _ _ _I_TAN -                                .                       ANZANIA  
KILOMETERS



I



IBRD 17670
NOVEMBER 1983
K E N YA
EBURRU GEOTHERMAL IPROSPECT
Boundary of Area Surveyed
.,   @    y   -   -,    # ,1         -       ELow Resistivity Area
Vf                                 -1;  1                               Planned Shallow  Hole Sites
Hot Grounds
*. lb    Fumroroles
Sj @    i,Explosion Craters
Roads
International Boundaries
Apparent Resistivities  ( flmr
Below 20
.            #;;,           \                          _      20-30
30-50
.l >  j Over 50
0                      1                      2
KILOMEl ERS
^  @ /                                      \  O_               L              Irtemal use o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,f Th,, WIr/ t-an
..                      0used  -n  t,, t t-d-
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h ^                            n fs p oo not-ply, on ffh
*         ,n. \ap.,   0f i                                                       Dh e     B-k ank rad thb
I          rOe~~~-  tee - toee ,n , or toe
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, T       read'sndt .e -ob.ey o e
SUDAN \                     4lo,-an  e iertor  F roe
De~~~~~~~~~Pa
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dr 0e WoS boo aD theJ                                                 1
Ebur, ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ buo                      i C,ae  \GJD-j   3
- t   /                  -   -  .    .   .            -~~~~~~~~~~             ~     ~        ~~~~~~~10  D >     10
I             at air  trrcior oZ amirQLJ
S   9                                \                   _  J          4      pe ll0OZAMBIQll         _SUDAN .   to






