PFPSAL 3 PID May 19- Final sent to infoshop
ProjeCt Name                     Turkey-Third ProgrammatiC Financial and
Public sector Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL 3)
Loan AMount                      US$900 million
Region                           Europe and central ASia
Sectors                          Poverty Reduction and Economic
management; Private and Financial sector
Devel opment
Project ID                       P082996
Borrower                         Government of Turkey
impolementing Agency             Undersecretariat of Treasury, Ankara,
Turkey
Envi ronment category            C
Date this PID Prepared           April 22, 2003
Appraisal Date                   April 2003
Projected Board Date             June 2003
Loan and Program summary
1.      The proposed Third Programmatic Financial and Public sector
Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL 3) would the be the third in the series
of Programmatic loans providing Bank support since 2001 to the
Republic of Turkey for the Government's multi-year financial and
public sector program. This program aims to restore confidence
in the banking system, correct the underlying structural
problems in the public sector that created the conditions under
which the February 2001 crisis occurred, and help protect
critical social spending. The proposed loan would be on
standard IBRD terms for Turkey and would be disbursed in two
tranches of US$450 million each, the first upon loan
effectiveness and the second upon fulfillment of second tranche
release conditions, as long as overall progress with the program
is also satisfactory.
2.      The first in this series of loans was the Programmatic
Firancial and Public sector Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL) of US$1.1
billion, approved in July 2001 (us$700 million on standard IBRD
terms and US$400 million on special structural Adjustment Loan-
SSAL-terms) and disbursed in a single tranche in July 2001. The
three-tranche Second ProgrammatiC Financial and Public sector
Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL II) of us$1.35 billion (us$550 on
standard IBRD terms and US$800 million on SSAL terms) was
approved in April 2002. The first US$450 million tranche of
PFPSAL II was disbursed upon effectiveness in AUgUst 2002.
However, disbursement of the remaining tranches of PFPSAL II was
delayed by a slowdown in implementation of the economic reform
program during the run-up to early legislative elections held in
November 2002 and establishment of the neW Government. The
proposed PFPSAL 3 will support the neW Government's full
ownership of the financial and public sector reform program and
Page 1



PFPSAL 3 PID May 19- Final sent to infoshop
will make a strong public commitment of the program's
objectives. PFPSAL 3 will also facilitate the fine-tuning of
the program in line with the Government's intentions and the
required adjustment of the timetable for particular program
benchmarks in accordance with actual developments over the past
year. The undisbursed amounts under PFPSAL II will be cancelled
at the authorities' request at the time of the Board approval of
PFPSAL 3.
Country and Sector Background
3.      The design of the PFPSAL loans reflects the continuing need
to address the long-standing underlying causes of the crisis of
2001 in order to reduce Turkey's vulnerability to such events.
Turkey has been long been characterized by an oversized public
sector living beyond its means and inadequate management of
existing resources, leading to structural macroeconomic
imbalances that thwarted successive attempts at disinflation.
During the 1990s, these imbalances became intertwined with
financial sector weaknesses in a vicious circle. state-owned
banks were used to finance government-mandated subsidized
lending, particularly to agriculture and small and medium-sized
enterprises.  This quasi-fiscal financing directly undermined
financial sector stability. In parallel, the emergence of a
lucrative domestic market for high return government bonds
indirectly contributed to financial sector instability as banks
became dependent on artificially inflated profits from
investments in government paper. Faced with prohibitively high
interest rates, the Government relied on the inflation tax to
keep the public debt under control. However, this created an
ingrained pattern of inflationary expectations, which blocked
financial sector deepening and promoted currency substitution.
4.      A serious exchange rate based disinflation program was
launched in late 1999, but this was ultimately unsuccessful.
The disinflation effort was accompanied by an initial round of
structural reform in pensions, telecommunications, agriculture
and energy. In the financial sector, a new commercial bank law
was passed mandating the creation of a new independent bank
regulatory agency. Despite some early success, macroeconomic
risks quickly built up and the program eventually collapsed at
its weakest point, the financial sector. In February 2001,
Turkey experienced a major currency crisis which forced the
Government to abandon the crawling peg exchange rate and float
the Lira. while the immediate cause of the crisis was weakness
in the financial sector, its deeper roots lay in the problems
with the structure and management of the public sector that are
at the core of Turkey's chronic macroeconomic instability.
5.      In mid-2001, the Government prepared a new economic program
to overcome the immediate impact of the crisis while setting the
stage for an early resumption of disinflation and growth. By
moving to address the fundamental structural problems underlying
the crisis, with a strong focus on restructuring the banking and
public sectors, the Government hoped to avoid the prolonged
recession that some other crisis countries have experienced.
The program was based on a three-pronged strategy: (i)
macroeconomic policies geared towards restoring financial
stability and resuming the disinflation process; (ii) structural
policies aimed at correcting the financial sector and public
sector weaknesses underlying the crisis, together with renewed
efforts to improve the investment climate and promote private
sector development; and (iii) strong social policies including
Page 2



PFPSAL 3 PID May 19- Final sent to infoshop
increased emphasis on protecting the most vulnerable.
6.      Economic recovery got underway in early 2002.     GNP
rebounded strongly, growing 7.8 percent (well above the program
target of 3 percent), after having contracted 9.4 percent in
2001. The high growth was due in part to base effects from the
recession and stock-building, but strong exports and a rebound
in agricultural output were also important factors. Even so,
the economy has yet to recover fully from the recession with
estimated per capita income still well below peak levels of
1998. Annual inflation rates dropped steadily over the course
of 2002, despite the strong recovery, with CPi inflation falling
to 29.7 percent and WPI to 30.8 percent by end-2002. The fall
in inflation was helped by appreciation of the real exchange
rate as confidence in the Lira improved. Balance of payments
ou-tcomes were also favorable, with receipts from exports and
tourism well above projections while renewed capital inflows to
the private sector contributed to a stronger-than expected
capital account balance. This allowed a build up of gross
international reserves to almost us$28 billion.
7.      Fiscal performance fell well short of the program targets
for 2002, with the primary surplus for the consolidated public
sector deficit falling short of the 6.5 percent program target
by over 2 percent of GNP. This resulted from factors such as
cost overruns in the social security system, pre-election
spending, an unexpected drop-off in tax revenues driven by
expectations of a post-election tax amnesty, delays in raising
administrative prices, higher-than-expected tax rebates, and
unplanned spending through earmarked accounts. while higher
than programmed government spending contributed to the stronger
than expected recovery in 2002, the fiscal slippage had serious
implications for the preparation of the 2003 budget and the
required adjustment to bring the fiscal program back on track
could slow the pace of recovery in 2003. The fiscal cost of
cleaning up the banking sector after the 2001 crisis has weighed
heavily on the public debt burden. After reaching a peak of 95
percent of GNP at the end of 2001, the stock of net public debt
to GNP fell to an estimated 80 percent by end-2002.
8.      Financial markets fluctuated sharply over the course of
2002 in line with political developments. while real interest
rates fell sharply from the crisis peaks, they remained in the
20 percent range during the second half of 2002. Mirroring the
bond market, the stock market also fluctuated sharply over the
course of 2002 and private credit remained stagnant. Financial
market volatility continued during the first quarter of 2003.
The new AKP (justice and Development Party) Government stressed
its commitment to continuing the economic reforms, albeit with
greater emphasis on the social dimension, but it was slow in
addressing the pre-election policy slippages and introduced some
costly ad hoc payments, including support payments in
agriculture and increased pensions. Markets came under
increasing pressure in January and February 2003. while markets
subsequently rallied modestly on improved prospects for
international support and the winding down of hostilities in
Iraq, conditions remained fragile as of April 2003 with the
benchmark bond rate in the 55 percent range and the Lira trading
in the range of TL 1.5-1.6 million to the Dollar.
Turkey's Financial Sector Reform Program
Page 3



PFPSAL 3 PID May 19- Final sent to infoshop
9.      Turkey's financial sector reform program seeks to restore
credibility to the financial sector, reduce its vulnerability to
internal and external shocks, and enhance its intermediation
capacity in support of economic growth. The initial reform
efforts from 1999 onwards have been focused on: (i) overhaul of
the prudential regime for banking in line with international
standards; (ii) establishment of an independent Bank Regulation
and supervision Agency (BRSA); (iii) problem bank/bank failure
resolution; and (iv) state bank restructuring and privatization.
At a later stage, the reform effort will also encompass non-bank
financial institutions and capital markets activity. The
Government's financial sector reform program was designed with
the Bank's assistance including three banking reviews undertaken
in the past five years, several financial sector loans, and a
non-bank financial intermediaries review completed in 2003.
10.     The Government accelerated the banking reform program in
2001 after the crisis, taking rapid action in each of the four
key areas. In particular, prudential regulations for loan loss
provisions, connected exposures and foreign exchange exposures
have been aligned with Basel/European union (EU) standards; and
the institutional basis of BRSA has been strengthened. Twenty
insolvent private banks have been intervened and resolved
through sale, merger or closure. With regard to the state
banks, EmIak bank has been closed and merged with ziraat bank,
while long needed financial and governance restructuring of
ziraat and Halk banks has been implemented. These actions were
supported by PFPSAL and PFPSAL II. A key action to be completed
under PFPSAL 3 is with respect to the privatization of the
fourth state bank, vakif bank, which is now expected to occur
before the end of 2003.
Turkey's Public Sector Reform Program
11.     Public sector reform aims to underpin sustained fiscal
adjustment and create the conditions for transparent and
effective government. The underlying problems with the
structure and management of the public sector were analyzed in
detail in the 2000 CEM and 2001 PEIR which contributed to the
analytical underpinnings of the public sector reform program,
together with the country Financial Accountability Assessment
and Country Procurement Assessment Review both completed in
2001. The public sector reform program focuses on three
critical areas, each of which has a medium-term dimension: (i)
structural fiscal policies to ensure permanent fiscal
adjustment; (ii) a medium-term program of policy and
institutional reforms to improve the transparency and efficiency
of public expenditure management (PEM) and (iii) broad-based
institutional reforms to improve the quality of public sector
governance.
12.     The Government has made substantial progress in defining
and implementing its public sector reform program. with regard
to improving public expenditure management, reforms already in
place include rationalization of the public investment program,
and enactment of new public procurement and public debt
management laws. The new public financial management and
control (PFMC) law, which is the cornerstone of the budget
reform, is expected to be enacted by June 2003. In the area of
structural fiscal policies, a major package of fiscal measures
to underpin the 2003 budget targets has been adopted.
Implementation of the medium-term tax strategy is moving forward
Page 4



PFPSAL 3 PID May 19- Final sent to infoshop
with adoption of indirect tax reform legislation in 2002 and the
first legislative package for the direct tax reform in April
2003. The public employment program is also making progress
with the target of eliminating one-third of SEE redundancies
having been surpassed by the end of 2002. In the area of public
sector governance, the national strategy for improving
governance and combating corruption was adopted in January 2002
and published in March 2003. Implementation of the new
legislation on public procurement, debt management, and public
financial management and control, together with the other
elements of the Government's public sector reform agenda, will
be supported by the proposed PFPSAL 3.
The Proposed Loan
13.     The proposed PFPSAL 3 is the third Loan in support of the
Government's multi-year financial and public sector reform
program (see paragraphs 1 and 2 above). The main objective of
the proposed PFPSAL 3 is to support implementation during 2003
of the Government's financial and public sector reform
priorities in response to the 2001 economic crisis, while
continuing to ensure that social programs are adequately funded
and increasingly better targeted. The principal benefits of the
Loan will be to: (i) support the Government's efforts to create
the conditions for sustained growth and macroeconomic stability;
(ii) ensure adequate social expenditure and better targeted
social protection, (iii) restore confidence in the banking
system and position the banking sector for accession to the EU;
and (iv) lay the foundation for more effective government in
line with EU directives and international best practice.
14.     The risks associated with the financial and public sector
reform program arise from macroeconomic factors, political
considerations and institutional weaknesses. The key
macroeconomic risk is that high real interest rates could derail
the economic recovery and affect public debt sustainability. A
related risk factor is Turkey's vulnerability to both internal
and external shocks. The commercialization and privatization of
the state-owned banks is a major political and organizational
challenge. The rapid restructuring of Halk and ziraat banks has
significant fiscal and social implications. while the
Government has so far been able to finance the banking clean-up,
the public debt has increased sharply as a share of GNP.
continued tight fiscal discipline and reform actions to bolster
the confidence of investors in Turkish sovereign debt
instruments remain essential. satisfactory and timely failure
resolution efforts and enforcement of capital restoration plans
are important. The risk that such efforts will fall short is
related to possible pressure that may be exerted to slow
regulatory enforcement action and provide regulatory
forbearance. The public sector reform agenda is politically
sensitive and may be jeopardized by resistance of vested
in-terest groups.
15.     The support of the Bank under PFPSAL 3 and the broader
country assistance strategy is assisting the Government to
overcome these risks and sustain implementation of its economic
reform program.
Contact Points
Page 5



PFPSAL 3 PID May 19- Final sent to infoshop
Bank:   Lalit Raina ECSPF
The world Bank
1818 H St. NW
washington DC 20433-0001
Tel.:    (1-202) 458-2900
Fax:             (1-202) 522-0005
James Parks ECSPE
The World Bank
Ugur Mumcu caddesi 88/2
GOP Ankara 06700
Turkey
Tel.:            (90-312) 446-3824
Fax:             (90-312) 446-2442
Borrower:        Mr. Ersen Ekren, General Director
General Directorate of External Economic Relations
undersecretariat of Treasury
Inonu Bulvari 36
06510 Emek Ankara
Turkey
Tel.:            (90-312) 213-6873
Fax:             (90-312) 212-8550
e-mail: ersen.ekren@hazine.gov.tr
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the Infoshop during the week ending
May 23, 2003.
Page 6



