D)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  14995
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1570-NEP)
SEPTEMBER 21, 1995
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Nepalese Rupee (NRs)
US$1 0             NRs 18.50 (1985 project appraisal)
NRs 42.30 (1991 original project completion)
NRs 49.26 (1994 actual project completion)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha): 2.47 acres (ac)
I kilometer (kmi): 0.62 miles (mi)
I metric tons (mt): 2.205 pounds (lb)
I kilogram (krn); 2.2 pounds
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 6 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AA            Agricultural Assistant
ADBN          Agncultural De-velopment Bank of Ncpal
AEP H         Agricultural Extension 11 Project
AERP          Agricultural Extension and Rcsearch Project
AIC           Agricultural Inputs Corporation
AO            Agncultural Officcr
APROSC        Agncultural Projects Scrnice Centcr
ASC           Agricultural Scrvice Ccnter
DADO          District Agriculture Developmcnt Officer
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DOAD          Department of Agricultural De clopment
HFPP          Hill Food Production Project
HMGN          His Majestv's Government of Ncpal
[DA           International Devclopment Association
JT            Junior Technician
JTA           Junior Tcchnical Assistant
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA           Ministry of Agnculture
NARC          Nepal Agricultural Research Cotmcil
PC/PS         Problcm Census/ Problcm Solxing Tcchnique
RARS          Regional Agncultural Research SLation
SAR           Staff Appraisal Repon
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SMS           Subject Matter Specialist
RATC          Regional Agncultural Training Ccnter
T&V           Training and Visit System of Extension
USAID         United States Agency for International Dcvelopment
VDC           Village Dcvelopmcnt Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
(Credit 1570-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................                                                        ii
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................1
A. Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives                              ....................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives                               ..2....................................... 2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................                          6
D. Project Sustainabilitv ..............................................8
E. Bank  Performance ................................................8
F. Borrower Performance ................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ..............................................9
H. Future Development ..............................................9
I.  Lessons Learned ...............................................                                            10
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1: Summary  of Assessment ..........................................                                    12
Table 2: Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ...........................................                              14
Table 3: Project Timetables ...........................................                                        16
Table 4: Credit Disbursements ...........................................                                      16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................... 17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations .......................................... 18
Table 7: Studies Included  in the Project ..........................................                           1 8
Table 8A: Project Costs ...........................................                                            19
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................................                                         19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................                                19
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                                20
Table  11: Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ....................... 21
Table  12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................                            22
Table  13: Bank  Resources: Missions ..........................................                                23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
Appendix  1. FAO/CP  Mission Aide-Memoire ........................................... 24
Appendix 2. Borrower's Evaluation ...................................................                        39
Appendix 3. Borrower's Comments on Implementation Completion
Report ...................................................                             47
Map IBRD I 7960R



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
(Cr. 1570-NEP)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Extension
Project II (AEP II) in Nepal for which Cr. 1570-NEP in the amount of SDR7.4 million (US$7.2
million equivalent) was approved on March 7, 1985 and made effective on September 9, 1985. The
IDA Credit was closed on December 31, 1994, after three one-year extensions to the original
schedule. The Credit was not fully disbursed, with SDR870,650 (US$1.20 million) being canceled
on May 13, 1994. Final disbursement took place on April 5, 1995, at which time a balance of
SDR582,789.00 (US$838,681.00) was canceled.
This ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
which visited Nepal in March 1995. It was finalized by the Task Manager, Mr. Yung K. Choi,
Agriculture and Water Operations Division, and reviewed by Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Chief,
Agriculture and Water Operations Division, and Ms. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Advisor. The
Borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report and legal
documents, supervision reports and project files. as well as field investigations and discussions with
the Bank staff and government officials associated with the project. The Borrower contributed to
the preparation of the ICR by commenting on the mission's aide-memoire, preparing its own
evaluation, and commenting on the draft ICR.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
(Credit 1570-NEP)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The project was a continuation of IDA support to complete the introduction of the
Training and Visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension in all twenty Terai districts in Nepal.
Earlier support for extension development was provided in conjunction with several irrigation
projects under which the T&V system of agricultural extension was introduced in six districts of
the Terai region over the period 1975-79. This was followed by the Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (AERP; Cr. 1 100-NEP, closed July 15, 1990) and the Hill Food Production
Project (HFPP; Cr. 1101 -NEP, closed July 15, 1990), which introduced the T&V extension
system in eight Terai and four Hill districts, respectively.
Project Objectives
2.    The overall objective of the project was to reorganize and strengthen the agricultural
extension services in eleven administrative districts in the Terai with the objective of achieving
early and sustainable improvement in agricultural productivity. This was to be accomplished
through: (i) strengthening and improving project management and supervision at central and
regional levels; (ii) introducing monitoring and evaluation of project activities; and (iii) provision
of additional staff, offices, housing, vehicles, equipment and staff training.
3.    The project was restructured in 1990/91, reflecting the need to adapt the original T&V
approach to the realities of the post-panchayat era which included the abolition of Agricultural
Assistant (AA, the grassroot level extension worker) position and the reorganization of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). To further strengthen extension and research activities, the
restructured project included eight Terai districts covered under AERP and four Hill districts
covered under HFPP. While the project was based on a sound foundation that would ensure an
uniform approach and complete the coverage by improved extension of all Terai districts, the
original objective of introducing the T&V system was abandoned in 1991 for a number of
reasons (para 5).



Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project experienced considerable difficulties during implementation. Construction of
staff quarters-cum-training halls were delayed, and a number of staff housings remain unfinished.
The procurement of training facilities and vehicles was also delayed. Insufficient budget
allocations and their delayed release were the main causes of the procurement inefficiencies,
while poor tendering and contracting procedures severely affected building construction. The
project substantially met the quantitative targets in incremental staff recruitment.
5.    The project achieved its principal development objective of reorganizing and
strengthening extension services aimed at increasing agricultural productivity. It was less
successful in realizing its secondary objectives of strengthening adaptive research and staff
training. Although an institutional framework of extension services was established, the
qualitative improvement lagged. This was due mainly to lack of managerial capabilities, and
deficiencies in the policy environment of His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) with
regards to staff appointments, job responsibilities and accountability, supervision, and other
incentive structures. MOA's physical target-oriented approach to extension also hampered
qualitative improvement of the extension services. During 1990/91, HMGN abandoned the T&V
extension system. The following factors contributed to the demise of the T&V system: (i)
abolition of the position of AA; (ii) a switch from contact farmer approach in T&V system to
farmer group extension; (iii) integration within a single Department of Agricultural Development
(DOAD) the hitherto separate agriculture, livestock and veterinary, and horticulture departments
each with their own parallel structure down to the field extension worker; and (iv) initiation of a
pilot program for a farmer-centered problem census and problem solving (PC/PS) approach to
extension program formulation and budgeting. Under this extension system, Junior Technician
(JT)/Junior Technical Assistant (JTA) became the front-line extension workers.
6.    Few studies conducted' in the project areas compared to non-project areas have reported
encouraging outcomes with regards to technological information dissemination among various
groups of farmers (marginal, medium and large) within the project area. The extent of adoption
of new technology and consequent increases in productivity were difficult to quantify because
several factors have to be taken into account including sufficiency of supply and access to inputs,
credit, market and prices. However, the Bank's analysis2 of crop yields for paddy and other
cereal crops in the Terai over the ten-year period (1979/80 - 1989/90) showed that yields
increased significantly in districts covered by the project, and were in excess of those yields
which were estimated at appraisal.
Sustainability of Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension in Nepal, APROSC, May 1988.
2 Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 10661) on AERP (Cr. I 100-NEP), HFPP (Cr. I 101-NEP) and Cash
Crop Development Project (Cr. 1339-NEP), May 1992.



iv
7.    Project sustainability. The important change made during project implementation was
the introduction of the farmer-centered participatory approach in extension. Judged by this
revised project approach, the project has been particularly successful in recent years in
demonstrating the validity of the PC/PS approach, seeing it formally adopted by the MOA as a
key element of its national extension strategy, and building a basis for a new national extension
system. The PC/PS is built on the concept of self-help, self-reliance and mutual cooperation
among farmers in the group. By judging the performance of some successful activities of the
matured farmer groups in the village, this group approach is sustainable, if properly facilitated by
MOA.
8.    Actual cost, financing and implementation timetable. The exchange rate movements
of the Nepalese Rupee versus U. S. dollar, and the U. S dollar versus Special Drawing Rights
(SDR) during the period permitted significantly increased actual expenditures. The final cost of
the project was NRs 571.55 million (US$15.23 million at current annual exchange rate),
compared to the appraisal estimate of NRs 157.90 million (US$ 8.5 million) which was 262%
above the original estimated project cost in Rupee terms and 79% above in U. S. dollar terms
(Part II, Tables 8a and 8b). Of the total IDA Credit of SDR 7.40 million, SDR 1.4 million
(US$2.1 million equivalent) was canceled.
9.    Key factors relating to achievement of project objectives. The significant deficiencies
which hampered project implementation were: (i) weakness in extension management skills; (ii)
frequent changes of project coordinator; (iii) a high staff turnover partly due to the temporary
nature of the posts; (iv) insufficient budget allocation; (v) lack of staff mobility and extension
materials; and (vi) poor coordination linkage between research and extension. With regards to
extension management, it was entirely a top-down process based on the achievement of physical
targets and results. Key management problems associated with poor staff performance were poor
supervision, low motivation of staff, little accountability and lack of any performance-related
reward system.
10.   Performance of the Bank and the Borrower. The performance of the Bank during
supervision was mixed as it was less successful in instituting the effective M&E system, and
unable to resolve the chronic problems associated with the misuse of project vehicles by non-
project related agencies. The Bank was flexible in readjusting appraisal targets and extension
approaches when it became apparent that the appraisal proposal could not be achieved. The
supervision reports were perceptive and helpful in relation to problems which occurred and
suggestions for improvements in implementation.
11.    The borrower and implementing agency have also encountered implementation
difficulties. Implementation was slow in the earlier years in part as a result of the Trade and
Transit impasse with India in 1989/90, the political instability in 1990/91, and frequent
reorganizations of MOA during the 1989-92 period.



v
12.   Project outcome assessment. The project achieved most of its major objectives. The
project's main impact lies in improved extension management accomplished through the
reorganization of the extension service towards a farmer group approach. It promoted a more
demand-driven service to farmers. The integration of three departments, namely. agriculture,
livestock and veterinary, and horticulture into one department to consolidate extension services
under one umbrella system was the most important achievement of HMGN, providing a
framework to build on a reoriented and strengthened national extension service in Nepal.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
13.  Important findings. Three important findings are: (i) the successful introduction of the
farmer group approach to extension in pilot districts has demonstrated that this provides a more
direct interaction of extension workers and farmers, than the T&V system; (ii) project
implementation and performance of extension staff has been constrained by lack of managerial
capability and commitment; and (iii) inadequate and inappropriate training for JT/JTAs and
SMSs has limited their effectiveness in providing the necessary support to farmers.
14.   Plans for future project operations. HMGN has provided a future operation plan based
on the experience and outcome of the project. Future developments would be in line with the
national agricultural extension strategy and the success of the group approach to extension. It
would aim to expand the use of PC/PS techniques in farmer groups, further encourage women's
participation in groups, expand a bottom-up approach to planning and budgeting at district levels,
and bring increased numbers of Water User groups under the PC/PS approach. The plan would
also provide more training for extension staff in the group approach, strengthen District
Agricultural Implementation Committees, and complete the unfinished civil works program.
15.   Lessons learned. The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(i)    While encouraging results have been obtained from the group approach to
extension, the full advantages will only be realized if JT/JTAs are better trained in
the principles and techniques of the group approach.
(ii)   Farmer training needs to be greatly expanded with course curriculum designed to
provide both increased knowledge in new technologies and more fundamental
principles of agricultural production processes so that they are empowered to
become better and more independent decision makers.
(iii)  SMSs are generally under-qualified. Their potential value to provide technical
back-stopping to JT/JTAs and to farmers and to provide an essential link between
research and extension is limited, and therefore must be improved.



vi
(iv)   Management training and policy initiatives are required to overcome the inherent
weaknesses associated with lack of: detailed operational plans, individual job
descriptions and associated duties, and lack of staff and unit operational
accountability.
(v)   Special attention is required to introduce mechanisms to strengthen and formalize
research-extension linkages to ensure that technologies recommended are
appropriate to local farming situations and farmer needs.
(vi)  Increased emphasis has to be given to the utilization of modem media production
technologies to provide adequate extension materials for field staff.
(vii) A major reason for procurement inefficiencies was a lack of procurement plan for
the whole project. The bidding documents and land availability for the physical
work should have been ready before negotiations. It should pay sufficient
attention to the implementing agency's capacity to supervise the quality of
construction works.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT (Credit 1 570-NEP)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Project Objectives and Scope. The objective of the Agricultural Extension II Project
(AEP II) was to reorganize and strengthen the agricultural extension services in eleven districts in
the Terai with the objective of achieving early and sustainable improvement in agricultural
productivity. The project aimed to bring about these increases by advocating adoption of low
cost and labor intensive agricultural practices and sound irrigation water management, thus
facilitating better cropping patterns, greater crop diversification and more efficient fertilizer usage.
The project was designed to: (i) reorganize agricultural extension in six new districts and
strengthen the existing extension organization in another five irrigation project districts, (ii)
provide training for all extension staff and farmers; (iii) enlarge two extension training centers at
Jhumka and Parwanipur; (iv) improve staffing in four regional agricultural development offices;
(v) provide production officers in selected areas at subcenter levels to coordinate input, credit and
irrigation water supply; (vi) construct office accommodation and housing for staff, (vii) furnish
and equip field extension and training facilities; (viii) provide vehicles and travel allowances to
ensure greater staff mobility; (ix) provide incremental operating costs; and (x) undertake baseline
studies in the six new districts, and project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) in all project
districts.
2.    AEP II was the second phase of an IDA-supported introduction of the Training and Visit
(T&V) extension system in Nepal. Earlier support for extension development was provided in
conjunction with several irrigation projects (Credits 373, 654, 812, 856 and 1055-NEP) in six
districts of the Terai, commencing in 1975. This was followed by the Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (AERP; Cr.  1100-NEP) and the Hill Food Production Project (HFPP; Cr. 1101-
NEP), which introduced the T&V extension system in eight Terai and four Hill districts,
respectively, both commencing in 1981.
3.    Proiect Changes after Appraisal. AEP II was originally designed to cover the eleven'
districts of the Terai not covered by AERP. However, the district of Dang Deukhuri did not
participate in the project because of the presence of a continuing USAID funded project. With
the completion of the AERP and HFPP in 1990, it was decided to restructure AEP II to include
Bara, Parsa and Rautahat (previously under Birganj and Narayani Irrigation I Project; Crs. 373 and 856-
NEP), Sunsari and Morang (previously under Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project l; Cr. 812-NEP), and six new
districts, Kanchanpur (previously under Mahakali Irrigation Project; Cr. 1055-NEP), Kailali, Dang Deukhuri,
Bardiva, Siraha and Saptari.



2
the eight Terai districts2 covered in the AERP, four Hill districts (Tanahu, Gorkha, Syangja and
Lamjung) covered in the HFPP and the irrigation district of Rupandehi in the Terai which was not
originally included3 . Under the amended Development Credit Agreement (DCA), agreed on
December 6, 1990, provision was made to provide financing to support extension, adaptive
research and training activities in the thirteen additional districts, as well as to complete on-going
civil works not completed in the previous projects. Furthermore, provision was made to improve
facilities of two Regional Agricultural Training Centers (RATCs) at Khajura (Banke district) and
Bhairawa (Rupandehi district) under the restructured project.
4.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project was based on a sound foundation that
would ensure an uniform approach and complete the coverage by improved extension services of
all Terai districts. It also responded well to the borrower's circumstances and the development
priority for the agricultural sector oriented towards increasing agricultural production with
emphasis on the agriculture of the Terai. The timing of the project, its scope and the relative size
of project components were appropriate. The risks to successful project implementation were
identified as minimal.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    Overall Achievement. The project achieved its principal development objective of
reorganizing and strengthening extension services aimed at increasing agricultural productivity. It
was less successful in realizing its secondary objectives of strengthening staff training.
(a) Physical Objectives
6.    The project target was to provide 209 units of office buildings, housing and improved
facilities at RATCs. However, during project implementation, this target was sharply reduced to
123 units because of the rapidly changing policy environment of HMGN. Even so, at completion,
only 81% of the revised target was completed. Of these, 17 offices and houses were not officially
handed over to HMGN due to litigation by contractors for additional payments to accommodate
sharp rises in material costs. The project provided 19 four-wheel drive jeeps, 60 motorcycles and
165 bicycles.
(b) Institutional Development Objectives
7.    Establishment of Effective T&V System of Extension. The T&V system of extension was
satisfactorily institutionalized and became operational in all project districts. The T&V system
was based on AAs, being responsible for visiting 10 selected "contact farmers" in each of nine
wards of one Village Development Committee (VDC), previously a Panchayat area, during each
2/ Jhapa, Sarlahi, Mahottari, Dhanusha, Kapilbastu, Chitawan, Nawalparasi and Banke.
3/ The district was earlier covered by Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project Stage I (Cr. 654-NEP) and Stage
lI (Cr. 1316-NEP).



3
fortnight period. The AAs within 3-5 VDCs were to receive technical support from three JTAs,
one of whom provided overall guidance and supervision, with one JT guiding and supervising the
work of three JTAs. To strengthen technical back-up, the project provided two SMSs in each
district, one each in agronomy and plant protection. The AAs, JTAs and JTs received training in
recommended crop production practices and "packages" from SMSs on one day each fortnight.
The documented evaluation of the T&V system4 indicated that compared to other extension
systems in Nepal, it had relatively higher numbers of visits to farmers, more provision for
supervision of field extension workers, better research-extension linkages, was more oriented to
smaller farmers and had the lowest cost per household, but had a higher client to agent ratio (I to
621). Following abolishment of AA positions, this ratio widened and is now between 1,300-1,600
farm families.
8.    Introduction of Group Extension Approach. During 1990/91, a number of factors
contributed to the demise of the T&V system, including (i) the abolishment of AA positions ( a
critical element of the T&V system as they were the front-line extension workers); (ii) the
reorganization of the MOA, where the Departments of Agriculture, Livestock and Veterinary
Services, and Horticulture were joined together in a newly established DOAD; and (iii) the
completion of the AERP and HFPP. As an alternative to the T&V system, in December 1991, the
MOA introduced a farmer group based extension system to incorporate problem census/problem
solving (PC/PS) techniques in order to make extension responsive to farmers needs. In June
1992, the PC/PS technique was introduced in two VDCs in three pilot districts, with technical
assistance provided by the project. These pilot activities were subsequently extended to six other
districts. Farmer groups have now been formed in all project districts.
9.    Field visits were made to assess group activities in some 27 farmer groups comprising 14
districts during the preparation period of this report. The groups can be classified into three main
types in terms of stage of group development: (i) initiating/mobilizing; (ii) consolidating; and (iii)
maturing, indicating a gradual move towards sustainable, self-initiating and self-helping entities.
These groups included mixed gender groups as well as separate men and women farmer groups.
The women farmer groups were primarily involved with livestock raising, goats and dairying, and
were very active in and had benefited from extension advice and assistance. Most farmers are
satisfied with the group approach but at present, it seems to produce more benefits for those with
specific opportunities to exploit, particularly those systems producing higher value products, such
as vegetable growing, seed production, dairying and goat production, but less benefits for other
farmers. In order to enhance all group activities, considerable emphasis has to be given to
providing training to JT/JTAs in group formation, the motivation, facilitation and the PC/PS
technique, as well as farmer awareness programs on the advantages of group formation.
10.   Block Production Program. The project was also designed to further intensify the pilot
production programs implemented successfully in previous irrigation projects. Forty-three
Production Officers (POs) were appointed to coordinate production inputs and prepare action
plans for individual farmers in selected intensive crop production areas. Each PO was responsible
4 / Sustainability of Training and Visit System of Agriculture Extension in Nepal, APROSC, May 1988.



4
for 1,000 ha covering 2-6 blocks. Comparative assessment of extension approaches indicated that
farmers in these areas were visited more frequently, had greater knowledge and higher adoption
of improved varieties and cultural practices, and productivity than under the T&V system, but
required higher extension costs and manpower strength. This program, however, was found to be
poorly integrated with extension and worked directly with input suppliers, such as Agricultural
Development Bank of Nepal (ADB/N) for credit and Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC) for
fertilizers. The program was discontinued.
11.   Strengthening of Regional Agricultural Training Centers (RATCs). The project expanded
the facilities at Jhumka and Parwanipur RATCs by providing incremental staff and supplementing
equipment and furniture. However, vehicles and important items of audio-visual equipment were
not supplied. At Jhumka RATC, farm facilities on the center campus were handed over to AIC
for seed production during implementation of the project, leaving the center with no land or
facilities to carry out practical training. The Parwanipur RATC was closed down during the
course of the project and regional training transferred to another site. Assistance was to be
extended to Khajura and Bhairawa RATCs under the restructured project, but assistance was
minimal. Each RATC, on average, provided regular training courses on crop technologies for
selected farmers (between 500-750 per year). Frequent transfer of staff to and from RATCs has
reduced the quality of training since staff are mainly SMSs who have received some trainer
training, rather than specialist trainers with long teaching experience. Two minibuses needed for
field trips were canceled. Some audio-visual aids were purchased, but not as envisaged in the
SAR in terms of individual items.
12.   Staffing and Training. Most incremental staff positions such as AAs, Junior Technical
Assistants (JTAs), Junior Technicians (JTs), and Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) were filled.
Positions for three Senior Agricultural Extension Officers (SAEOs) at regional offices were not
filled which weakened monitoring and supervision of district's activities from the Regional
Agriculture Directors. Under the T&V system, field level extension staff received regular training
but the quality of this training was below that intended and required for AAs, JTAs and JTs to
undertake their duties satisfactorily. Specialization in a particular discipline was not regarded as a
prerequisite for appointment as a SMS. Frequent staff changes considerably reduced the
effectiveness of SMSs in training of field staff and providing the necessary technical expertise and
information to assist farmers. Some special training programs were conducted and a number of
seminars/workshops were held in relation to various aspects of the group extension system and
PC/PS techniques. A total of 58 staff undertook study tours to become acquainted with research
and extension activities, agricultural problems and technologies used in northern India.
(c) Objectives of Sector Policies
13.   The objectives of sector policies relevant to the project were concerned with the HMGN's
Seventh Plan (1985/90) and the Eighth Plan (1992/97). The Seventh Plan set specific objectives
of increasing agricultural production, increasing rural employment, fulfilling basic food needs, and
increasing production and self-reliance in production of agro-based raw materials. The Eighth



5
Plan (1992/97) had the principal objectives of achieving sustainable economic growth, poverty
alleviation and reduction of regional imbalances. Emphasis has been given to diversification and
commercialization of this sector to raise income and employment opportunities of farmers. Thus,
specific objectives for agricultural development were to contribute to the national economy
through increased agricultural production and productivity through: (i) meeting the growing
domestic food demand, (ii) expanding agro-based industries, (iii) increasing employment
opportunities to the majority of small farmers, and (iv) maintaining a balance between agricultural
development and environmental protection. The project contributed to both eventualities of
increasing agricultural production and productivity.
(d) Project Benefits
14.   The outcomes of the investments in this type of project are difficult to measure, since it is
not possible to determine what proportion of increased agricultural production is due to extension
services alone and what is due to additional purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is a
combination of a number of factors, with extension playing the role of a catalyst that spurs the
desired achievement. During Bank supervisions, significant diversification of cropping and
movement to higher valued crops was observed particularly in the irrigated areas. However,
agricultural data is out of date and unreliable, making it difficult to demonstrate these visual
observations of progress in this ICR. However, the comparative yields study of five selected
districts to represent the T&V system under AERP in the early 1980s (1982 and 1983) and four
districts to represent those recently introduced to the AEP II system in the late 1980s was
presented in the Bank's Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR, Report No. 10661, May
1992) on AERP and HFPP. The PPAR revealed that in the case of paddy from 1982/83 to
1989/90, the yield trend in the AERP districts is significantly greater than the other districts.
PPAR also indicated that an increasing trend in wheat yields is apparent from the latter half of the
1970s irrespective of extension treatment, and there is no significant yield difference between the
extension treatments. These results suggest that factors other than the intensive T&V services
were largely instrumental in the changes in wheat productivity occurring in the Terai, but that the
T&V services could have contributed to yield increases in rice.



6
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
(a) Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
15.   Implementation of the project was slow in part as a result of the Trade and Transit
impasse with India in 1989/90, the political instability in 1990/91, and frequent reorganizations of
MOA during the 1989 - 92 period.
(b) Factors Generally Subject to Government and Implementing Agency Control
16.   The political instability mentioned above exacerbated the effects of recurring
implementation problems, including delayed procurement processing, inadequate and delayed
release of counterpart funds, and frequent reassignment of Project Coordinators and field staff.
The significant deficiencies which hampered project implementation included: delays in the
appointment of key staff, weak professional capacity of field extension workers, a high staff
turnover, and inadequate annual budget allocation. Many of these deficiencies identified earlier,
however, were substantially improved from 1991 onward.
17.   Implementation Delays. The project was to be completed over six years from September
1985, with a closing date of December 3 1, 1991. After three one-year extensions, it was closed
on December 31, 1994.
18.   Project implementation experienced continuous problems, having been rated "2" since
inception in September 1985 - February 1991, when its rating dropped to "4" for about a year
before improving to "3" and subsequently to "2" rating until Credit closure. Several factors
have contributed to this modest performance and the delays in project implementation (see paras
15 and 16).
19.   The T&V system of extension successfully introduced a single extension system in the
Terai to replace several extension systems used previously. Many managers had received little or
no training in management techniques and were frequently technical specialists acting in a
management role. Management was entirely a top-down process based on the achievement of
physical targets and results. Key management problems associated with staff performance were
low motivation, little accountability, and lack of any performance related reward system. Weak
supervision also meant that many JTs and JTAs reportedly attended training but rarely visited the
field. The introduction of the PC/PS technique to farmer groups has the potential to promote
participatory program planning for extension at village level and participatory implementation of
plans by mobilizing farmer's own local resources. In addition, under this farmer-centered group
approach, JTs and JTAs were required to interact directly with farmers as a facilitator to improve
farmer access to inputs, credit and markets, making them better motivated for early adoption of
new technologies.



7
20.   Although planning, monitoring and evaluation division was established in the MOA, it was
poorly equipped and understaffed to carry out effective monitoring functions. Although belated,
recent acquisition of several computers, copying machines, facsimile facilities as well as vehicles
will enhance M&E activities.
21.   The T&V system and subsequently the group approach to extension produced good
results for those farmers who could access sufficient resources to implement the technologies
promoted. Livestock rearers reported significant improvements in production due to improved
health services, introduction of improved breeds and in some instances, improved forage
production and feeding. The introduction of the PC/PS technique in pilot areas has certainly
focused extension needs on solving problems identified in participatory discussions with farmer
groups, which should ultimately make extension activities more relevant and demand-driven.
22.   Extension Materials and Field Demonstrations. The project made no specific use of more
advanced media such as radio, film and video. Field staff were consequently largely dependent on
the leaflets and posters produced centrally by DOAD. Most field staff lacked adequate leaflets for
their own use, far less to distribute to farmers. Also, leaflets describing recommended crop
varieties and cultural practices for individual crops were not available to farmers. Demonstrations
were carried out across the whole project area. It was noted that demonstrations often exhibited
poor field plot techniques, were poorly located with little use of sign boards.
23.   Research - Extension Linkages. Research-extension linkages were established as planned
but their effectiveness was less than anticipated. No clear definition existed of the relative and
interacting roles of research and extension. Under the T&V system of extension, bimonthly
meetings were held between SMSs and staff at regional research stations. These meetings were
considered beneficial as they consisted of group discussions reviewing extension
recommendations and discussing future research topics and field trials. However, bimonthly
meetings were discontinued following the establishment of Nepal Agricultural Research Council
(NARC) in 1991. During the latter part of the project there was little interaction between SMSs
and research staff, except on the basis of informal personal initiatives.
24.   Civil Works Program. The serious delays in the civil works program which adversely
affected project implementation were due to lengthy procedural processes for design approval,
tendering, and dispute resolution arising from civil works contracts. Furthermore, problems
associated with poor design and quality of construction came from poor supervision. There was
considerable delay in the appointment of personnel to positions designated as architects to
supervise the civil works program, and those engineers appointed had little relevant experience or
qualifications.
25.   Actual Project Cost. Table 8A of Part II gives a comparative statement of appraisal
estimates and final costs. The exchange rate movements of the Nepalese Rupee versus U. S.
dollar, and also the U. S. dollar versus SDR during the project period, permitted significantly
increased actual expenditures. The final cost of the project was NRs 571.55 million (US$ 15.23
million at current annual average exchange rate), compared to the appraisal estimate of NRs



8
157.90 million (US$ 8.5 million) which was 262% above the original estimated project cost in
Rupee terms and 79% above in U. S. dollar terms. The Credit was not fully disbursed. Of the
total IDA Credit of SDR 7.4 million, SDR 870,650 (US$ 1.2 million) was canceled on May 13,
1994. Final disbursement took place on April 5, 1995, at which time a balance of SDR
582,789.00 (US$ 838,681.00) was canceled.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.   The recent introduction of the farmer group approach to extension has created an
opportunity for greater collective farmer participation and involvement in defining needs for
extension support. Experience to date indicates that the self-initiated farmer groups, especially in
the pilot VDCs, are moving strongly towards self-reliance and self-help which would be a great
asset for the sustainability of the approach. However, without considerable additional donor
project support, the capacity of the extension system to respond effectively to farmer needs will
remain at an undesirably low level. The current level of budgetary support is inadequate in
relation to expanding extension facilities in all Terai and limited Hill districts, and to upgrading
staff skills and knowledge in group facilitation and technical information.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   Project Preparation and Appraisal. The conceptual framework for the project was based
on earlier experience with the T&V system introduced under various irrigation projects in the
Terai. The project was well in line with HMGN's development priority and with the Bank's
strategy for the country. The project was prepared by HMGN with some technical advice from
the Bank. The SAR identified the key project components required to overcome deficiencies in
the existing systems. The SAR also outlined a balanced agricultural extension program for
overcoming constraints that could otherwise impede improvement of agricultural performance.
The implementing capacity was appraised and found to be satisfactory as DOAD had previous
experiences of implementing other similar projects supported by other donors. However, during
the appraisal, the Bank did not pay sufficient attention to procurement planning, designs and cost
estimates (para 24). A switch from the T&V extension system to the farmer-centered group
approach in extension, which was not envisaged during appraisal, could be the key ingredient for
sustained operation of the project.
28.   Supervision. The Bank undertook eighteen supervision missions during the course of
project implementation, at an average of one every six months. Generally, their reports were
perceptive and helpful in relation to problems which occurred and suggestions for improvements
in implementation. The Bank staff showed flexibility in suggesting or approving needed
modifications. The relationship between the Bank and the implementing agency was cordial.
Although the project was supervised by a number of Task Managers during implementation, staff
of the Bank resident mission in Nepal provided the necessary continuity and support for the
project. Some chronic issues raised during supervisions were: (i) the slow progress of the
construction of JT and JTA quarters; (ii) the need to strengthen planning, M&E activities; and (iii)



9
the misuse of project vehicles by non-project related agencies. On these issues, HMGN did little
to direct the project towards rectifying the deficiencies.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.   Preparation. The Project Coordinator's office of the AERP formulated a draft outline of
the project. No external technical assistance was provided in preparing the project. The
borrower and the implementing agency had done a satisfactory job in preparing the project.
30.   Implementation Shortfalls. The performance of the implementing agency was deficient in
the actual implementation of the civil works. It lacked criteria for selecting the construction sites
for ASCs, JT and JTA quarters, and also in selecting the qualified civil works contractors. The
engineer's cost estimate for the construction works was not always based on actual surveys in a
given locality, but on merely applying HMGN's standard unit cost. In addition, there were
problems with the lengthy approval of procedures for procurement, and poor supervision of
construction work (para 24). All these factors impeded implementation progress and resulted in
delay and poor quality of civil works.
31.   Studies. Reporting. and Covenant Compliance. All the studies proposed under the project
were completed. Bi-annual project progress reports were regularly submitted, and annual
accounts and audits reports were submitted. Compliance with important covenants was
satisfactory. The covenants dealing with the appointment of the Senior Agricultural Extension
Officer in the three regions was not complied with because of personnel adjustment difficulties of
MOA.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   The project achieved most of its major objectives. Although project implementation
progress was only partially satisfactory for the reasons described in paras 15 and 16, overall, the
project outcome is rated satisfactory. The reason for this rating is that the ultimate goal of the
project was not so much whether all project components were completed on time, but whether
the institutional framework and extension policy guidelines were properly established, responding
to the need of beneficiaries to enhance farm productivity and incomes. To support this rating,
several commendable achievements made by HMGN since early 1992 can be listed. These are: (i)
the introduction of farmer participatory approach in extension through the PC/PS practice to
promote a more demand-driven service to farmers (paras 8, 9 and 26), (ii) the amalgamation of
three separate extension departments under one umbrella system (para 8); (iii) the formulation of
national agricultural extension strategy and its implementation plan; (iv) the preparation of the
follow-on project by their own initiatives and efforts; and (v) the strong commitment to implement
the future operational plan (para 33).



10
H. FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
33.   HMGN has prepared a future operational plan based on the experience and outcome of
the project. Future developments would be in line with the national agricultural extension
strategy and success obtained using the group approach to extension. It would aim to expand the
use of PC/PS techniques in farmer groups, further encourage women's participation in groups,
expand a bottom-up approach to planning and budgeting at district levels, and bring increased
numbers of water user groups under the PC/PS approach. The plan would also provide more
training for extension staff in the group approach, fill vacant SMS positions, strengthen District
Agricultural Implementation Committees, and complete the unfinished civil works program.
HMGN has requested financial assistance from the Bank for a follow-up project which would aim
to further strengthen extension services. HMGN has prepared a project preparation report which
is under review by IDA.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
34.   The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(i)    The group approach to extension has significant advantages over the T&V system
as follows: (i) it is demand-driven in the resolution of farmers' problems; (ii) it
provides for wider coverage of extension contact with farmers and is more cost
effective; and (iii) it provides greater direct interaction of technicians and SMSs
with farmers. These potential advantages will, however, only be fully realized if:
(i) JT/JTAs are better trained in the principles and techniques of the group
approach; (ii) an awareness campaign is mounted to inform farmers of the
advantages of forming groups; (iii) the activities of the field extension services are
better organized and regularized; and (iv) the availability of technical services and
information is increased.
(ii)   Farmer training needs to be greatly expanded with course curriculum designed to
provide new technologies and more fundamental principles of agricultural
production processes and marketing information.
(iii)   The potential value of SMSs to provide technical back-up to JT and JTAs to
introduce new technologies, to provide technical information to farmers and to
provide an essential link between research and extension is greatly under-exploited.
SMSs are generally under-qualified for their tasks and responsibilities, and need
specialized in-service training to upgrade their specialist knowledge and skills.
(iv)   Management of extension services at all levels is weak due to lack of: (i) detailed
operational plans; (ii) budget for travel and daily allowances; (iii) individual job
descriptions and associated duties and responsibilities; and (iv) scope for effective
reward and punishment. It is essential that managers at all levels be given



ii
appropriate management training, clear job descriptions be detailed for all staff,
and proper planning and M&E systems be introduced to ensure individual and
collective accountability in staff performance, achievement and output.
(v)    ASCs were established in the districts without due consideration of localities and
target groups. There is a need for future projects to rationalize the number of
ASCs in each district such that ASCs are used more effectively as farmer
information and training centers in the districts.
(vi)   Monitoring and evaluation of the agricultural performance data deserves high
priority as a critical tool for rectifying deficiencies.
(vii)  MOA requires a clearly defined staffing program linked to a coherent manpower
development policy and planning and career structure.
(viii)  Research-extension linkages are weak. It is necessary to introduce mechanisms to
ensure formal linkages between extension and research. Such mechanisms should
include: (i) re-introduction of bi-monthly meetings at the district level between
DOAD and NARC research stations; (ii) joint diagnosis of farmer problems; (iii)
cooperative involvement in production, implementation and evaluation of mini-kits
and other demonstrations; and (iv) joint operation of laboratories for soils
analysis, plant protection, and seed testing.
(ix)   Field extension staff are inadequately supplied with extension materials. Increased
emphasis has to be given to the utilization of modern media production
technologies to quickly produce leaflets tailor-made for local situations as well as
supplying pamphlets and brochures on recommended cultural techniques.
(xi)   There is a need to strengthen the activities of the Agricultural Communication
Division of DOAD to make better use of modern communication systems,
especially radio, television and video for transferring the farming technologies and
marketing informations to farming communities.
(xii)  The Civil Works program did not meet the anticipated standards. Sufficient
attention should be paid to appraisal of implementing agency's procurement
capability. There is a need to review a procurement plan for the whole project,
including detailed design and bidding documents prior to negotiations.
M:\CHO1\NEPICR\mtx2.doc



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                      E9           E            E9 
Sector policies                      D            E
Financial objectives                                                        [7]
Institutional development
Physical objectives                              E7     
Poverty reduction                                                           El7
Gender issues                        n                         E            [II
Other social objectives                                        77 El        E
Environmental objectives             |l           l                          7E
Public sector management            El           E            E             E
Private sector development          E            E             E            E
Other (Human Resources
Development)                           D                   DD
B. Project sustainability            Likely       Unlikelv    Uncertain
C. Bank performance                satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                    9           E             9
Preparation assistance            E            E            E
Appraisal                         E           E             E
Supervision                       E            E            E



13
Highlv
D. Borrower performance             satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Preparation                                               F9
Implementation                    7                       F]
Covenant compliance                          F  1
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                     HigbhY
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfactory



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                        Purpose                     Year of      Status
Approval
Preceding operations
1. Birganj and Narayani     To develop imgation resources on 12,700 ha and  1973       Closed on
Irrigation Projects         thereby raise agricultural production and farm             June 30,
(Crs. 373 and 856-NEP)      incomes and increase food security in Bara, Parsa          1981
and Rautahat districts of the Central Region of the
Terai.
2. Bhairawa-Lumbini          To develop irrigation resources on 7,600 ha through   1976  Closed on
Groundwater I Project        construction of 64 deep tubewells and therebv             December
(Cr. 654-NEP)               develop agricultural production in Rupandehi               31, 1982
district of the Western Region of the Terai.
3. Sunsari-Morang Irrigation I  To develop irrigation resources in Sunsari and  1978   Closed on
Project (Cr. 812-NEP)        Morang districts of the Eastern Region of the Terai.      June 30,
1987
4. Mahakali Irrigation Project   To rehabilitate, upgrade and extend irrigation  1980  Closed on
(Cr. 1055-NEP)               resources on 6,000 ha in Kanchanpur district of the       December
Far Western Region of the Terai.                          31, 1988
5. Agriculture Extension and    To reorganise extension services in eight districts in  1981  Closed on
Research Project            the Terai and strengthen applied and adaptive              July 15,
(Cr. 1 100-NEP)             research.                                                  1990
6. Hill Food Production Project  To increase food production in four Western Hill  1981  Closed on
(Cr. 1101-NEP)              districts of Gorkha, Lamjung, Syanja and Tanahu            July 15,
through improvement ot extension services, credit         1990
and fertilizer inputs, improved marketing and
development of irrigation resources on 3,000 ha.
7. Bhairawa-Lumbini         To further develop irrigation resources on 7,000 ha   1983  Closed on
Groundwater II Project      through construction of tubewells in Rupandehi             October
(Cr. 1316-NEP)              district of the Western Region of the Terai.               31, 1990
8. Cash Crops Project       To promote the commercial production of         1983       Closed on
(Cr. 1339-NEP)              sugarcane, tobacco and oilseeds in the Terai, initiate     December
pilot development of sericulture (Hills) and              31, 1988
groundnut, and strengthen ginger research (Hills).



15
Following operations
1. Narayani Irrigation III   To complete the development of the irrigation and    1986   Closed on
Project (Cr. 1715-NEP)       drainage system of the 37,000 ha Nepal Eastern              June 30,
Canal Command.                                              1995
ICR under
preparation
2. Sunsari-Morang Irrigation    To extend irrigation to an additional 16,700 ha and   1987  Closed on
II Project (Cr. 1814-NEP)    provide initial desilting facilities for Stages I and II    March 31,
in Sunsari and Morang districts of the Eastern             1995
Region of the Terai.
ICR under
preparation
3. Mahakali Irrigation II    To raise agricultural production and farm incomes    1988   Closing
Project (Cr. 1924-NEP)       through expansion and management improvement                date
of public irrigation system, through construction          scheduled
and rehabilitation of private schemes, and                 for March
restoration and river protection works in                  31, 1997
Kanchanapur district of the Far Western Region of
the Terai.
4. Bhairawa-Lumbini          To further develop irrigation resources on 8,000 ha   1990  Closing
Groundwater Irrigation III   through expansion of deep tubewell irrigation               date
Project (Cr. 2144-NEP)       system and construction and rehabilitation of               scheduled
private schemes to raise agricultural production,          for June
farm incomes in Rupandehi and Nawalparasi                  30, 1999
districts of the Western Region of the Terai.



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                                Date planned                        Date actual/
latest estimate
|Identification (Executive Project Sununary).__
FiPreparation                                                                                         SeptemberrOctober, 19b3
Appraisal                                                                                             March 17-23, 1984l
|Negotiations                                                           July 9, 1984                   February 15-20, 1985l
Letter of developi ent policy (if applicable)                          n.a.                           n.                                    l
Board presentation                                                     September 11, ]984             March 7, 1985
Signing                                                                                               June 10, 1985l
Effectiveness                                                                                         Septernber 9, 1985l
First tranche release (if applicable)                                  n.a.                           n.a.
Midlenn review (if applicable)                                         n.a.                           n.a. t
Second (and third) trache release (if applicable)                      n.a.                           n.a.
Project completion                                                     June 30, 1991                  June 30, 1994 2
Credit closing                                                         December, 1991                 December, 19943'
Although no mid-term review was scheduled, the Credit Agreement was amended on December 6, 1990 following IDA agreemnent with HMGN proposal
to restructure the project to: (i) provide continued financing for incremental extension, adaptive research, and training activities in 12 additional districts;
(ii) complete civil works in original II districts, (iii) strengthen adaptive research in projed areas; and (iv) increase the percentage disbursement for
salaries and allowances for project staff.
2    Project completion date was extended three years to June 30, 1994, following three I -year extensions to Credit closing.
3"   Requests for one-year extensions of Credit closing date were agreed by IDA on December 18, 1991, December 29, 1992 and December 20, 1993,
respectively.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY88         FY87        FY88        FY89         FY90        FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94       FY95
(USS
million)
Appraisal Estimate              0.3           1.0        2.8          4.8         8.7        7.2
Actual                         0.05          0.45       147          1.77        2.34       2.92       4.08      4.96      6.68        8.30
Actual as % of Estimate          17           45          57          38           35         41        58         69        93        108
comment iDA agreed on May 13, 1984, to HMGN request to cancel US$1.2 million (SDR870,6Fi) ot Credit and to reallocate the remainig balance according to proposed categones
of expenditure. The Bank has allowed disbursements on expenditures incurred prior to closure of Credit, to be drawn until 30 Aprl, 1995. Appraisal estimate used an
exchange rate of SOR1 .0 = USS0.97 while actual estimates are based on current exchange rates which changed throughout project period.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.   Key implementation indicators                                                Approval      Revised
Unit            Target      Target          Actual
1. Civil Works
offices                                                            No.                46           15             911
Rest House                                                         No.                 I            0             0
Houses - Gazetted                                                  No.               120          61             58,'
Houses - Non-gazetted                                              No.                27           32            32
Training Centre                                                    No.                  I           I             13/
Garages                                                            No.                13            3             3
Compound walls                                                     No.                 0            9             9
2. Vehicles
Jeeps                                                              No.                14           19             14
Minibus                                                            No.                 2            2             0
Mlotorcycles                                                       No.               141          141            33
Bicycles                                                           No.               165          165            165
3. Equipmnent                                                                                                                   l
Office                                                             Unit               19           65             184  
Fumiture                                                          Unit               146
Audio-visual and other                                            Unit              1,265       1,529           1,501
4. Incremental Staff3'
PLAA                                                               No.               810                          0
JTA                                                                No.               263                         320
JT                                                                 No.                93                         246
Production Officer                                                 No.                43                          0
SMS                                                                No.                27                         100
ADO                                                                No.                10                          0
AADO                                                               No.                10                          0
SAEO                                                               No.                 4                          0
Civil Engineers                                                    No.                 5                          5
Training Staff                                                     No.                11                          21
Economists                                                         No.                 6                          10
Support Staff                                                      No.               159
II.   Modified indicators (to include AERP and HPFF districts)
l. Civil Works
Offices                                                            No.                 0            1             06/
ASC                                                                No.                 0            4             27 
Houses                                                             No.                 0            4             Os/
Suspension bridge                                                  No.                 0            1              1
Garages                                                            No.                 0            2              2
2. Vehicles
Jeeps                                                              No.                 0            5              5
L   Motorcycles                                                        No.                 0           27             27
"     Six offices still under construction.
2/    Five JT quarters not yet handed over and one IT quarter still under construction.
3/   Improvements to Jhumka Training Centre included construction of motor garage, fencing and electrification.
4/    Office equipment was revised to include computers with printers (5), photocopy machine (5) and facsimile machines (3).
5'    Target staff in SAR are for 10 districts included in project, while actual staff at end of project in those same districts included additional staff brought
under DOAD due to orgarisational restructuring.
61    MOA headquarters building completed but not handed over.
An additional two ASCs completed but not handed over.
"     Four JT quarters completed but not handed over.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not applicable to this project)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined          Status             Impact of study
1. Benchmark studies in    To collect data concerning  Completed in 3 districts  Provided detailed
six new project districts    cropping patterns, yield data,  in June 1986 and 2  analysis of agricultural
availability of inputs,    other districts in March   production, socio-
marketing facilities, present   1988               economic and
status of extension support                        demographic features in
and its impact, and farmers                        project districts.
technological constaints.
2. Sustainability of    To evaluate the approach of   Completed May 1988   Work was of insufficient
Training and Visit system   T&V system in a national                       analytical rigour,
of agricultural extension    perspective as to its                         although good
in Nepal.               suitability, applicability and                     description of extension
contribution to agricultural                       modalities in Nepal
development in context of                          were given.
various existing extension
approaches.
3. National Agricultural    To provide financial    Completed 1994         Provides sound
Extension Strategy      assistance to Task Force to                        guidelines for future
prepare the strategy                               development of
document.                                          extension services in
Nepal.
4. Operations Manual for   To provide detailed      Completed December,    Manual guidelines now
Participatory Census and   operational plan for     1994                   being simplified and
Solving Techniques      implementing the                                   translated into Nepali
Participatory Census and                          language.
Solving technique in farmer
groups.
5. Preparation of       To provide financing for    Completed December,    Six working papers and
Agricultural Extension  preliminary preparation of    1994                 main project report were
and Marketing Project   new extension project by                           prepared and to be used
HMGN.                                              as a basis for further
preparation work.



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item                Local    Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign    Total
costs     costs                costs    costs
1. CivilWorks                    1.3       1.3       2.6       2.60        -        2.60
2. Vehicles & Equipment          0.2       0.8        1.0       0.27     0.47       0.74
3. Incremental Staff             1.6        -         1.6      7.28        -        7.28
4. Incremental Operating Cost    0.5       0.3        0.8       2.29       -        2.29
5. Training                      0.4        -         0.4
6. Monitoring& Evaluation        0.1        -         0.1       2.14     0.19       2.33
TOTAL BASE COSTS                4.0       2.4       6.5
Physical Contingencies           0.4       0.3        0.7
Price Contingencies              0.9       0.5        1.4
TOTAL                           5.3       3.2       8.5       14.58     0.66      15.23
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source              Local   Foreign       Total         Local   Foreign     Total
costs     costs                    costs      costs
IBRD/IDA                       4.0        3.2        7.2          7.77       0.66     8.43
Domestic contribution           1.3         -        1.3          6.80          -     6.80
TOTAL                         5.3        3.2       8.5          14.58      0.66     15.23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
There was no net present value (or economic rate of return) estimated, as such measures are not relevantfor
this type of project.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
NEPAL
Agricultural Extension II Project
Original      Revised
Agreement                  Coven-    Status       fulfillment   fulfillment                 Description of
Section    ant type                 date          date                       covenant                              Comments
DCA              3.01        5        C           -                            The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency
DCA              3 02        5        CD          12/31/85       -             Employ architects to assist with civil works  Complied with only February 1988.
program
DCA              3.03 (a)    5        C           -                            Insurance of imported goods against hazards
incident to acquisition, transport and delivery
DCA              3 03 (b)    13       CP                                       Goods and services to be used exclusively for   Not completely complied with
the Project.                                during project, as regional offices
from time to time commandeered
vehicles
DCA              3.04 (a)    5        C                                        Preparation of plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules of Project.
DCA              3.04 (b)    5        C                                        Fumish IDA semi-annual progress reports
DCA              3.04 (d)    5        CD           -                           Submit compILtion report not later than 6
months after closing date.
DCA              3 05        5        C                                        Take action to acquire land and land rights
required for carrying out the Project.
DCA              3.06 (a)    5        C           8/11185        -             Maintain in DOA the professional posibons    Professional positions not always
existng in the project area and shall continue   filled with suitably experienced
to fill such positions with suitably experienced   officers
officers.
DCA              3 08 (b)    5                                                 Ensure that the Panchayat-level agriculture  By HMGN  decision of November
assistants appointed for prolect be qualified/    17, 1991, agriculture assistants
experienced and residents of Panchayats in  posts were abolished
which they are assigned to work.
DCA              3.08 (c)    5                    3/311/87                     Review with IDA adequacy of staff assigned for  By HMGN  decision of November
carrying out project, in particular, Panchayat-   17, 1991, agriculture assistants
level agnculture assistants                 posts were abolished.
DCA              3.07 (a)    5        C           12131/85      -              Establish/maintain a District Technical      Disttict Technical Committees did
Committee for each district, chaired by     not perform satisfactorily
Agriculture Development Officers shall meet at
least every six months.
DCA              3.07(b)     5                    1231/85        -             Appoint/maintain Sr Agric. Ext. Officers in the   As monitoring functions of the Reg.
Eastern. Central and Western regions of Nepal. Director of Agriculture Office was
adequate, HMGN decided not to
appoint SAEOs.
DCA              3.07 (c)    5                    831/86         -             Appoint/maintain Sr. Agnc. Ext. Officers in the   As monitoring functions of the Reg.
Far-Westem and Mid-Western regions of       Director of Agriculture_ Office was
Nepal.                                      adequate, HMGN decided not to
appoint SAEOs.
DCA              3.08 (a)    5        C                                        Appoint/maintain incremental staff required  Created and appointed new
pursuant to a staffing schedule.            JTlJTAs.
DCA              3.08 (b)    5        C           -                            Upon complebon of project, maintain          Incremental SMS staff not
incremental staff employed,                 maintained and AO positons
abolished on Nov. 17. 1991.
DCA              3 08 (c)    5        C                                        Ensure that all ext. staff of DOA assigned to
project shall carry out exclusively agric ext.
work under project
DCA              3.09        5        C           8130/95        -             Furnish to IDA. a statement of progress in
location of sites for offices, training sub-centres
and staff housing to be constructed undr the
project.
DCA              3.10        5        C                                        Provide facilities/incentives to field prolect staff.  After project restructuring credit
including establishment of credit scheme    scheme was not extended to
pursuant to which all Jr. Technical Assistants   livestock extension staff.
may purchase bicycles and provide
maintenance allowance to encourage optimum
use of such bicycles.
DCA              3.11 (a)    T        C           37131/87                     Provide results of benchmark studies in six new  Benchmark studies completed in
project districts to IDA for review and comment. five districts



21
DCA             3.11 (b)    5        C           -                           Establish a Monitoring and Evaluation System    Satistactory M&E system never
to provide reports to IDA on semi-annual basis,  established
DCA             312         5        CP          -                           Efficiently maintain at all times buildings,  Poor standards and maintenance of
vehicles and equipment provided under the  buildings and vehicles.
project
DCA             4.01        2        C           -                           Maintain appropriate accounting practices  IDA agreed on March 8, 1989 to
amend OCA to extend submission
deadtines for audit reports to 12
months after end of each fiscal
year
Covenant Type                                                        Present Status
1 = Account/Audits                8 = Indigenous people              C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial/peforlmance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting   CD = complied with after delay
generaton from beneficiaries    10 = Protect imptementation not  CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of protect funds  covered by categories 1- 9  NC = not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding            11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the           budgetary or other resource
protect or executing agency         allocation
8 = Environmental covenants        12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policyl
7 = Involuntary resettlement             regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The project is in compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.



22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned              Revised                Actual
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$
Preparation to appraisal                -        n.a.        -         n.a.       52.2       n.a.
Appraisal                               -         n.a        -         n.a.        9.9       n.a.
Negotiations through Board approval     -        n.a.        -         n.a.        3.6       n.a.
Supenrision                             -        n.a.        -         n.a.      151.1       n.a.
Completion                              -        n.a.        -         n.a.      10.01/      n.a.
TOTAL                                                                           216.8
planned



23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                         Specialized      Implementabon       Development
Stage of              Month/           of           Days in         staff skills         status           objectves          Types of
project cycle            year         persons          field         represented                                               problems
Through appraisal             Sep./Oct          1              28                A                  -                  -
1983
November          1                                E                                      -                 -
1983
Appraisal through Board      March 1984         1              7                                    -                  _
approval
May 1985          1
Supervision Mission 1         Jan./Feb          2              10               A,E                  2                  1
1986
Supervision Mission 2         Sep/Oct           4              7              A(2).E(2)              2                  1                 F
1988
Supervision Mission 3       October 1987        2              8                A(2)                 2                  1                 F
Supervision Mission 4       January 1988        1              5                 F                   -                  -
Supervision Mission 5         February          2              15               A(2)                 2                  1                 F
1988
Supervision Mission 6         Sep/8Oct          2              21               A,E                  2                 2                  F
1988
Supervision Mission 7         February          2               7               A,E                  2                 2                F,M,T
1989
Supervision Mission 8         Nov/Dec           3              23             EC(2),E                2                 2                F,M,T
1989
Supervision Mission 9        March 1990         2              29               E,A                  3                 2                F,M,T
SupeMsion Mission 10          November          4              20             E,A,EN,F               3                 2                 F.M
1990
Supervision Mission 11        Mar/Apr           3              20              A,EN,F                4                 3                F,M,T
1991
Supervision Mission 12       November           2              19               E,A                  4                 3                 F,T
1991
Supervision Mission 13        Mar /Apr          2              18               A(2)                 3                 3                 F,T
1992
Supervision Mission 14       November           2              15               A(2)                 3                 3                F,M,T
1992
Supervision Mission 15        Mar /Apr          2              17               A(2)                 2                 2                F,M,T
1993
Supervision Mission 16        Sep/Oct.          3              28             A(2).EC                2                 2                 F,T
1993
Supervision Mission 17        Feb/Mar.          3              27             A(2),EC               2                  2                 F,T
1994
Supervision Mission 18        Nov/Dec.          2              28               A(2)                2                  2                 F,T
1994
Staff Skills:     A = Agnculturist: E = Extension Specialist EC = Economist; EN = Civil Engineer, F = Financial Analyst
Types of Problems: F = Financial: M = Management; T = Technical



24
Aopendix 1
NEPAL: Agricultural Extension Project (Phase II)
(Credit 1570-NEP)
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme ICR Mission
28 February - 21 March 1995
Aide-Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
0.1       At the request of the World Bank, an FAO/CP Mission l visited Nepal from 28
February to 21 March 1995 to meet with officials of His Majesty's Government of Nepal
(HMGN) concerned with the implementation of the above project and to obtain relevant
information for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for this
project. Meetings were held with the Coordinating Unit for the project in the Department of
Agricultural Development (DOAD), the World Bank Resident Mission, the FAO
Representative and other government officials. Field visits were made to thirteen project
districts in the Terai area and one district in the Hills area. New facilities constructed under
the project were inspected and meetings were held with government officials and farmers in
these districts.
0.2       The mission wishes to thank all staff of HMGN involved in the meetings and
field visits for giving generously of their time, information and assistance with the preparation
of the ICR for this project. The views presented in this aide-memoire reflect those of the
mission, based on discussions with staff of HMGN and farmers and from extensive
consultation of project documents, and has been amended slightly to take into account points
raised in a final wrap-up meeting, chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture and attended by
Joint Under-Secretaries of Divisions and heads of sections within the DOA on March 21,
1995.
B. THE PROJECT
0.3       The general project objective was to reorganise and strengthen the agricultural
extension service in 11 administrative districts of the Nepal Terai in order to provide an
institutional framework within which all agricultural development programmes, aimed at
achieving early and sustained improvement in production and incomes, would be incorporated.
The improvements in agricultural production were expected to come from the wide adoption
of low cost and labour intensive agricultural practices, proper irrigation and water
management, and use of appropriate crop varieties and levels of fertilizer.
0.4       The Agriculture Extension Project II (AEP II) was a continuation of IDA support
for the introduction of the Training and Visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension to
" Messrs. D. A. Ivory (Mission Leader) and A. F. Willens (Extension Specialist, Consultant).



25
various districts of Nepal. Earliest support for extension development was provided in
conjunction with several irrigation projects (Credit Nos. 373, 654, 812, 856 and 1055-NEP)
in a number of districts in the Terai area, commencing in 1973. These were followed by the
Agricultural Extension Research Project (AERP; Cr. 1 100-NEP) and the Hill Food Production
Project (HFPP; Cr. 1101-NEP), which introduced the T&V extension system in nine Terai and
four Hill districts, respectively, both commencing in 1981.
0.5       The AEP II was originally designed to cover the eleven districts of the Terai not
covered by AERP, namely Bara, Parsa and Rautahat (previously under Birgang and Narayani
Irrigation Project; Crs. 373 and 856-NEP), Sunsari and Morang (previously under Sunsari-
Morang Irrigation Project I; Cr. 812-NEP), Kanchanpur (previously under Mahakali Irrigation
Project; Cr. 1055-NEP), Kailali, Bardiya, Dang Deukhuri, Siraha and Saptari. The district of
Dang Deukhuri did not participate in the project at any time because of the presence of a
continuing USAID funded project. With the completion of the AERP and HFPP in i990, both
after three annual extensions, it was decided to restructure AEP II to include the nine Terai
districts covered in the AERP (Jhapa, Sarlahi, Mahottari, Dhanusha, Kapilbastu, Rupandahi,
Chitawan. Nawalparasai and Banke) and four hill districts (Tanahun. Gorkha, Syangja and
Lamjung) covered in the HFPP. Under the amended Development Credit Agreement (DCA),
agreed on 6 December, 1990, provision was made to provide financing to support extension,
adaptive research and training activities in the thirteen additional districts, as well as for
completion of on-going civil works not completed in the previous projects. Under the original
project design, AEP II was to support the development of two Regional Agricultural Training
Centres (RATC) at Ihumka (Sunsari district) and Parwanipur (Bara district), and this support
was extended to Khajura (Banke district) and Bhairahawa (Rupandehi district) RATCs under
the restructured project. The project became effective on September 9, 1985 and after three
annual extensions of the IDA Credit, closed on December 31, 1994.
0.6       The specific project objectives were to: (i) reorganise agriculture extension in six
new districts and strengthen the existing extension organisation in the five project districts to
bring them into line with extension districts included in the AERP and HFPP; (ii) provide
frequent training for all staff; (iii) enlarge two extension training centres at Jhumka and
Parwanipur; (iv) improve staffing in four Regional Agricultural Development Offices; (v)
provide Production Officers in selected areas at subcentre level to coordinate input, credit and
irrigation water supply; (vi) strengthen the Extension Training and Planning Sections of the
Director General of Agriculture; (vii) construct office accommodation and housing for staff;
(viii) furnish and equip field extension and training programmes; (ix) provide vehicles and
travelling allowances to ensure greater staff mobility; (x) provide incremental operating costs;
and (xi) undertake baseline studies in the six new districts and project monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) in all project districts.
C. MISSION FINDINGS
Achievement of Objectives
0.7       The design of the project placed emphasis on physical achievements in
establishing and strengthening the T&V extension system, but failed to emphasize general
objectives concerned with activities and outcomes. While the criteria set for judging project
achievements in terms of institutional and physical targets were found to be generally



26
satisfactory, the extreme weakness or non-existence of M&E activities meant that it was very
difficult to assess the effectiveness of the extensior. system introduced and its impact on
agriculture production and farm incomes.
0.8        The specific project objectives were only partially achieved, even after three
annual extensions. The project failed to reach any of the physical targets set in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) by the original scheduled end of the project (31 December, 1991) and
all were considerably delayed according to the original implementation schedule. The SAR
providel for 210 units (office buildings, housing and improved facilities at RATCs). During
project implementation, targets for civil works were sharply revised downwards. Even so, at
project completion, after three annual extensions, the revised civil works programme was only
81% completed. with office and house construction 13% and 91% completed and handed over,
resuectivelv. Ir. addition. many offices and houses were compietelv constructed but not handed
over to HMGN or uncompleted, due to litigation by contractors, which has been pending for
more than two years, for additional payments to accommodate sharp rises in material costs.
Assistance to RATCs was minimal. A number of civil works which were uncompleted under
the previous AERP and HFPP were scheduled for completion under AEP II following project
reconstruction and financed by AEP II. The headquarters building for the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) was completed, but is still not handed over to HMGN, two Agricultural
Service Centres (ASCs) were completed, while five JT quarters were completed but none have
been handed over to HMGN.
0.9       The target for vehicle purchases was revised upwards by 36% during the project
and at project closure was 100% completed. Two minibus purchases were cancelled, however,
and while 100% of bicycles were purchased, only 43% of motorcycles were procured. Some
office, furniture and audio-visual equipment was purchased, but not as envisaged in the SAR
in terms of individual items.
0.10      Most incremental technician staff positions, such as Agricultural Assistants (AAs),
Junior Technical Assistants (JTAs) and Junior Technicians (JTs) were filled, together with
positions for Production Officers (POs), Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), Assistant
Agricultural Development Officers, Agricultural Development Officers (ADOs) and Sub-
Centre Chiefs (Agricultural Officers; AOs) at the district level. Positions for Senior
Agricultural Extension Officers (SAEOs) at regional offices were never approved. All
incremental positions were temporary positions which were not converted to sanctioned
positions until April 1992. PO and AO positions were never sanctioned and the services of
staff appointed to these positions were terminated at this time. AA positions were abolished
in 1991.
0.11      Establishment of Effective T&V System of Extension. The T&V system was
satisfactorily institutionalised and became operational in all project districts. The only
documented evaluation of the T&V system" showed that there was no difference in crop
yields in districts which had received extension advice for 5-6 years compared with others
which did not have the T&V system. Mission interviews with extension staff indicated that
in the early years the T&V system seemed to have worked well. Mission interviews with
farmers indicated the system had worked less well. Problems cited by farmers included; lack
Sustainability of Training and Visit system of agriculture in Nepal, APROSC, May 1988.



27
of adoptable messages, some farmers were not aware they were contact farmers while others
who did were not contacted, and many contact farmers did not pass on messages to non-
contact farmers and thus were widely regarded by other farmers as favoured recipients of
government assistance rather than as a source of information. The system of using AAs to
pass on recommended messages provided from the fortnightly training programmes to contact
farners. aiso meant that the extension system was not adequately responsive to its
beneficiaries, except where they were progressive farmers and/or had particular resources or
opportunities which could be developed. Active contact farmers did, in fact, rapidly adopt
recommended practices appropriate to them, where they were not already using them. Since
these altered only slightly from year to year the AAs had little new technologies to pass on.
However, the system as developed had neither built-in flexibility to allow for reduced
frequencv of visits to such farmers nor regular rotation and recruitment of new contact
rarmers.
0.12      Group Extension Approach. During 1990-91, a number of factors contributed
to the demise of the T&V system, including the abolishment of AA positions (which were
critical to the T&V system) because of political agitation and increased pay claims, the
reorganisation of the MOA, where the Departments of Agriculture, Livestock and Veterinary
Services and Horticulture were joined together in a newly established DOAD, and the
completion of the AERP and HFPP. The realisation that at the field level there was inadequate
motivation and resourcing of field staff and poor management control led to the HMGN to
eventually abandon the T&V system, claiming "Agricultural production is still staggering in
spite of decades of these projects... Several thousand AAs, and even JT/JTAs, are found
contributing very little to generate any economic return and mass awareness"". HMGN then
introduced a farmer group based system to incorporate problem census/problem solving
(PC/PS) techniques in order to make extension responsive to farmers needs. Initially the
PC/PS technique was introduced in two VDCs in three pilot districts and subsequently
extended to six other districts. Technical assistance to develop the PC/PS group approach was
provided directly by WB (an international consultant for 10 days) and project funds were
utilized to provide periodic inputs from one international consultant and continuing assistance
from three local consultants from March 1993 to December 1994. Farmer groups have now
been formed in all project districts, according to targets based on geographical areas of wards
in Village Development Committees (VDCs), with ten farmer representatives from each of
three wards forming one group of 30 members. Each group elected a group leader to act as
a pivotal link between the group and the extension department. Three such groups were
formed to cover all nine wards of each VDC throughout the project area.
0.13      The mission interviewed some 26 farmer groups in 13 Terai and one Hill district.
These groups included mixed gender groups as well as separate men and women farmer
groups. The women farmer groups were primarily involved with livestock raising, goats and
dairying, and were very active and had benefited from extension advice and assistance. The
farmers cited many advantages from forming groups. However, after more than two years
experience with the group approach, only between 10% and 50% of groups are claimed to be
active. Most farmers are satisfied with the group approach but, as with T&V, at present it
seems to produce real benefits for those with specific opportunities to exploit, particularly
" Letter from Acting Secretary of Agriculture to Director, Country Department, Asia Region,
World Bank, November 16, 1989.



28
those systems producing higher value products, such as vegetables, seed production, dairying
and goat production, but only limited benefits for other farmers. In order to enable activation
of all groups, considerable emphasis has to be given to providing training to JT/JTAs in group
formation, motivation. facilitation and the PC/PS technique, as well as farrmer awareness
programmes on advantages of group formation.
0.14       Strengthening of Regional Training Centres. The project was to provide funds
for expanding the facilities at Jhumka and Parwanipur RATCs by providing incremental staff
and supplementing the equipment and furniture available. While some of the furniture and
equipment was supplied according to the project design, vehicles and important items of
audio-visual equipment were not. This substantially reduced the effectiveness of training at
the centres. At Jhumka RATC. farm facilities on the centre campus were handed over to
Agricuitural Input Corporation (AIC) for seed production. leaving the centre with no land or
facilities to carry out practical training. In addition, it had to reduce its external venues and
restrict its training schedules due to shortages of staff. The Parwanipur RATC was closed
down during the course of the project and regional training transferred to another site.
Assistance was to be extended to Khajura and Bhairahawa RATCs under the restructured
project, but assistance has been minimal.
0.15       Frequent transfer of staff to and from RATCs has reduced the quality of training
since staff are mainly SMSs who have received some trainer training rather than specialist
trainers with long teaching experience. Minibuses, needed for field trips were cancelled as
were cassette tape recorders. Slide and film projectors had not been procured by the intended
completion date of the project and the National Planning Commission did not agree to their
procurement in the extended period of the project.
0.16       Provision of Regular Training for Staff. Under the T&V system, field level
extension staff received regular training and this was felt to be useful by the staff involved,
although the quality of this training was well below that intended and required. Training was
based on improving knowledge of recommended practices and technologies and failed to
develop practical skills and comprehension needed to enable field staff to adapt
recommendations to local conditions and fully interface with farmers. Training of more senior
staff was equally unsatisfactory. Whilst the actual training was of reasonable quality, though
again lacking in practical content, training was widely perceived as a means of obtaining
promotion rather than as a means of developing skills. This largely reflects the lack of a
coherent manpower development and staffing structure within DOAD, to the extent that
expertise and experience in a particular discipline is not regarded as a prerequisite to
appointment as a SMS in that discipline. Coupled with frequent staff changes this considerably
reduced the effectiveness of SMSs in training of field staff and providing the necessary
technical expertise and information to assist farmers.
0.17       Strengthening of Extension Training and Planning Sections of DOAD. The
Planning Section has received the equipment intended. Many districts have no Planning
Officer or if posted are located elsewhere. There is no evidence at the District Level that any
comprehensive planning is being carried out but rather that planning is treated as an annual
exercise in target programming and implementation reporting.
0.18       Monitoring and Evaluation. Although budgetary line items were provided for
M&E in the project design and on several occasions WB supervision missions insisted that



29
M&E units be established and appropriate M&E activities should be undertaken, the project
failed to establish any effective M&E system and no guidance was given to establishing
appropriate M&E survey, data collection, analysis and evaluation procedures.
Project Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
0.19      Overall. the project only partially achieved its objectives. A number of factors"
contributed to substantial delays in achieving physical targets during implementation. resulting
in the need for three annual extensions to the project. Frequent implementation problems
recorded by WB supervision missions included: inadequate fund release and slow
disbursement of funds; the use of the special project account remained problematic;
procurement was slow and considerable delays occurred in the civil works programme;
positions of incremental staff were not regularized; and professional capacity ot field staff
workers weak and inadequate supervision at that level.
0.20      Total Project Costs. Of the total IDA Credit (SDR7.4 million), SDR870,650
(US$1.2 million) was cancelled on 13 Mav, 1994, and at Credit closure on 31 December,
1994, SDR5.65 million had been spent and SDR877,503 remained unspent. The Bank has
allowed disbursements on expenditure incurred prior to closure of Credit to be withdrawn until
30 April, 1995. Total project cost was NRs571.55 million (estimated US$15.23 million at
current annual exchange rates), which was 262% above the original estimated project cost in
Rupee terms, due to a 268% devaluation of the Rupee against the Dollar and SDR, three
annual project extensions and to an expansion of project area caused by project restructuring,
and was 79% above estimated project costs in Dollar terms.
0.21      Extension System. A number of factors associated with management and
implementation of the T&V extension system affected project performance and impact.
0.22      Management. Line management of the extension service was weak. Many
managers had received little or no training in management techniques and were frequently
technical specialists acting in a management role. Management was almost entirely a top-down
process based on the achievement of physical targets and results. No account was taken of
impact, which in the absence of any M&E system could not be accurately determined. Setting
of management targets was only a participatory process in relation to discussing technical
issues and activities but not in quantitative or budgetary terms.
0.23      Key management problems were low motivation of staff, little accountability and
lack of any performance related reward system. Problems particularly arose with supervision
of JTs and JTAs whose numbers are considered excessive under the T&V system and who
made the link from technical specialists to the farmer too long for effective communication.
Supervision was so lax that many JTs and JTAs reportedly attended training but rarely visited
the field. This was undoubtedly a major cause of the AAs going on strike for better
remuneration and regularisation of their positions. Despite the AAs being widely recognised
as the key frontline staff making the greatest contribution to the success of the extension
system, the borrower decided to abolish their positions and retain the JTs and JTAs. There
was also a high staff turnover, partly due to the temporary nature of the posts.
"   Mostly subject to Government/lmplementing Agencies control.



30
0.24      Impact and Relevance. Some of the activities set out in the SAR appear to have
received less attention than was envisaged: very few low cost, labour saving technologies were
introduced and advice on proper irrigation water management was left almost entirely to
irrigation projects. The extension messages under the T&V system were largely technology
based, focusing on a package approach involving improved seed, fertiliser and pest and
disease control. It was generally geared to farmers with access to irrigation and followed the,
then standard practice of carrying out all variety trials with recommended applications of
fertiliser and plant protection. Results were recorded as physical yield and profitability to the
farmer was not determined.
0.25      Certainly the T&V system and subsequently the group approach of extension
produced good results for those farmers who could access sufficient resources to implement
it. Where particular opportunities existed. as with high vaiue vegetable crops or seed
production, and later in the project in relation to certain livestock activities, most farmers
found the advice from extension helpful and profitable. Livestock rearers reported significant
improvements in production due to improved health services, introduction of improved breeds
and in some instances improved forage production and feeding. However, where these
opportunities did not exist, farmers reported that the improved technologies were not cost
effective due to the low prices prevailing at harvest, such that they were considering ceasing
use of the improved technology. This was mainly a problem of financing the production
inputs, though coupled with lack of skills and physical facilities for efficient crop storage.
Technologies such as row planting of maize, which had no direct cost, were widely adopted,
but there were few of these.
0.26      The SAR did not adequately address the need for extension materials. Emphasis
was on low cost aids such as charts, flannelgraphs and flipcharts which extension staff were
to design themselves. This pre-supposed that SMSs had the ability and experience to produce
effective extension materials but no specific training was built in for this. The project made
no specific use of more advanced media such as radio, film and video except where individual
staff took the initiative to rent TVs and VCRs. Field staff were consequently largely
dependent on the leaflets and posters produced centrally by DOAD. This was not supported
under the project and most field staff lacked adequate leaflets for their own use, far less to
distribute to farmers. Good colour posters showing pests and diseases were particularly lacking
and could not therefore be displayed at ASCs and subcentres where farmer training took place.
0.27      Demonstrations were carried out across the whole project area. While many
farrners benefitted from minikit demonstrations of new varieties the impact of other
demonstrations was not as great as anticipated. Many were located away from roads or main
tracks and had no sign boards describing them. This was in marked contrast to those organised
by commercial sugar and tobacco companies which were sited to be clearly visible from main
highways. Shortage of operating funds, particularly for transport, severely restricted the
number of farmers who could be taken to visit demonstrations and also constrained field days
and visits.
0.28      Staff Skills. The technical skills and level of competence of staff employed in
the project was very variable. The AAs reportedly had generally good practical skills and were
able to interact well with contact farmers. The general educational level of the JTs and JTAs
was not high enough to enable them to interpret the components of the technology packages
to be able to recommend individual components to farmers. The training which they received



3 1
was, therefore, primarily a passing on of factual information for them to pass on to AAs and
farmers. In any event, none of the components were tested individually so that the
performance of improved varieties without fertiliser or plant protection was not known.
0.29      Under the T&V system, SMSs were supposed to spend one third of their time in
training groups of AAs, JTAs and JTs, one third in field visits to provide technical support
and monitor adoption and non-adoption of recommended practices and the remaining third of
their time in building their own stock of knowledge through regular dialogue with research
workers and attending short training courses. The extent to which this latter activity took place
was relatively minor, partly due to lack of mobility and partly to weak research-extension
linkages. The ability of the SMSs and indeed most officers to keep up to date with advances
in their field was also constrained by extremely low availability of technical joumals and up
to date Wooks. The mission observ,ed that no district offices had any reference materials
beyond the personal collections of staff themselves.
0.30       Research - Extension Linkages. Research-extension linkages were established
as planned but their effectiveness was less than anticipated. No clear definition existed of the
relative and interacting roles of research and extension. Neither organisation perceived a need
to keep up to date with and draw on information and technologies developed in other
countries and neither was adequately resourced to do so. As a result, the more progressive
farmers were often better informed than extension staff on developments in India and even
on technologies from other research stations located elsewhere in Nepal.
0.31      Provision was made for bimonthly meetings between SMSs and staff at regional
research stations. According to the SAR these were to be training sessions crucial to the
success of the project but in reality, as set out in the SAR, they were group discussions
reviewing extension recommendations and discussing future research topics and field trials.
Whilst these were a valuable exercise, they were not training per se.
0.32      Inadequate SMS training was reflected in inadequate training of the JTs, JTAs
and AAs and ultimately farmers. The regular training sessions served primarily to pass on
seasonal cropping information which hardly changed from year to year. This led field staff
to complain that they had nothing new to pass on to farmers, a direct result of only dealing
with the same contact farmers. This also applied to pre-season workshops for AAs, JTAs and
JTs which were often delayed so that they took place after farmers had planted the crops.
Research staff conducting the training were generally inexperienced in practical field problems
and wvere rarely trained as trainers.
0.33      Extension leaflets and posters are produced centrally, though district offices do
have some very limited funds for local production. Thus even where research-extension
linkages generate area specific recommendations these are not necessarily incorporated in the
extension material available to field staff.
0.34      Civil Works. The serious delays in the civil works programme was due to
lengthy procedural processes for approval of design and estimates for construction, tendering,
recosting and dispute management of construction contracts. Additional problems associated
with poor design, quality of construction and finish came from poor supervision. Initially there
was considerable delay with the appointment of personnel to positions designated for
architects to supervise the civil works progranmme and then agricultural engineers were



32
appointed to these positions. Problems associated with legal disputes still continue with many
buildings remaining partially constructed or completed but not handed over to HMGN. This
had a continuing negative impact on project activities, as such buildings were unoccupied and
their condition is deteriorating as little or no maintenance funds are provided in district
budgets.
0.35      Vehicles. Lack of adequate transportation proved to be a problem throughout the
life of the project. There were several reasons for this. Vehicles provided under the project
were unavailable for project use for an excessive percentage of time. Some of the vehicles
purchased were inappropriate having excessive engine capacity and hence fuel consumption
and being of a standard of luxury which made them over-attractive to other organisations for
use by senior officials. Vehicle maintenance costs were high due to the poor standard of roads
and budgetcd maintenance xas inadequate. M\Ianagement control of vehicles was often poor.
Motorcycle procurement and distribution was well below intended levels (43%) and far less
than required to provide appropriate mobility to field staff. This made it extremely difficult
for SMSs and JTs to properly supervise JTAs and ultimately AAs. Bicycle loans generally
proved to be successful and were widely used. However since the staff owned the bicycles,
they took them with them when they transferred out of the project area so that the number
of project staff having bicycles rapidly declined and mobility problems retumed.
0.36      Project Benefits. It is not possible to determine the real impact of the project
activities on beneficiaries since no M&E of impact was done, although specified in the SAR,
and because of concurrent improvements in other factors of production, such as irrigated area.
Undoubtedly many farmers in project areas who were in direct contact with extension workers
increased their crop production and incomes. Increases in yields of major crops that would
be required to obtain a 50% ERR from the proposed project investments were estimated in
the SAR. Analysis of crop yields for paddy, wheat, maize, millets and sugarcane in the Terai
over the I 0-year period 1984-94 showed that yields increased significantly and were in excess
of those estimated to be required in the SAR to obtain high rates of return to project
investment. Since 1990, however, yields for paddy and wheat have declined. This has resulted
in farmers being placed in a cost price squeeze with input costs rising faster than product
prices. Further analysis of paddy and wheat yields before and during the project (1980-89)
showed no significant differences in trends between new districts where T&V was introduced,
districts where extension was strengthened and non-project districts. The baseline surveys
carried out for the project indicate that most farmers already knew of improved varieties of
wheat and of the value of using chemical fertiliser such that 85% of those growing wheat
already followed the recommended practices. With paddy, around 60% of farmers knew of
recommended practices but less than 40% actually used them.
Project Sustainability
0.37      It is likely that in purely physical terms the extension system is sustainable, but
without considerable additional support it will remain at a low level of effectiveness. While
the current level of budgetary support for extension has been maintained at project levels, it
is inadequate for proper maintenance of existing resources and is extremely limited in relation
to replacement or purchase/investment in new resources needed for development of the
extension services.



33
Bank Performance
0.38      The WB undertook 18 supervision missions during the course of project
implementation. Generally, their reports were perceptive and helpful in relation to problems
which occurred and suggestions for improvements in implementation. Although the project
was supervised by a number of Task Managers and project supervision staff changed
frequently, staff of the WB resident mission in Nepal provided the necessary continuity and
support for the project. The Bank performance was, however, weak in several key areas. The
saga of vehicles being requisitioned by other organisations runs right through the
implementation period. While the Bank persistently complained to the Secretary of Agriculture
the Bank appeared to fail to come to terms with the fact that the MOA could not of itself do
anything and the matter should have been taken to a higher level. Supervisory missions, apart
from in the early years of the project. did not consistently point out the absence of M&E nor
give it appropriate prominence. The Bank consequently failed to insist that the M&E
necessary to determine project impact and effectiveness be carried out. A number of problems
have arisen for HMGN in maintaining a proper set of accounts in terms of WB reporting
requirements. Appropriate guidelines should have been provided at the beginning of the
project.
Borrower Performance
0.39      The Borrower recognised that the extension system, as introduced, was not
working well. Thus at their initiative the extension system was changed to a farmer group
approach with PC/PS used as the key technique to promote a more demand-driven assistance
to farmers. This approach, while still in an evolutionary and widening stage of development,
is potentially more effective than the previous approach. Also the Borrower has supported and
assisted the preparation of an Agricultural Perspective Plan and National Agricultural
Extension Strategy for Nepal to provide guidance and direction in development of agricultural
services and agricultural development.
0.40      Some aspects of Borrower performance were, however, unsatisfactory and would
have to be seriously addressed in any future project. The whole management of the civil
works programme was unsatisfactory. Steps should have been taken to streamline the complete
sequence of document preparation, processing, contract negotiation and approval, and
supervision of civil works. Such action would have prevented the long-continuing situation
of litigation by contractors against the Government. General management of the extension
services has also been unsatisfactory and requires systems put in place to improve staff
performance and accountability. Disbursement of project funds, particularly the operation of
the Special Account, was often cited by WB supervision missions as problematic. WB
reviewed the operation of these accounts in all IDA-financed projects in Nepal and made
recommendations to improve their operation, but to date no action has been taken by HMGN.
The Borrower also failed to respond to a number of requests from WB supervision missions
to establish an effective M&E system and thus monitoring was confined to the physical
implementation of the project, not its impact on agricultural production. Many of these
deficiencies breached the covenants of the DCA.



34
Future Operational Plan
0.41      HMGN has provided a future operational plan based on the experience and
outcome of the project (refer attachment). Future developments would be in line with the
National Agricultural Extension Strategy and success obtained using the group approach to
extension and would aim to expand the use of PC/PS techniques in farmer groups, further
encourage women's participation in groups, expand a bottom-up approach to planning and
budgeting at district levels, bring increased numbers of Water User groups under the PC/PS
approach, provide more training for extension staff in the group approach, fill vacant SMS
positions, strengthen District Agricultural Implementation Committees, and complete the
unfinished civil works programme.
Lessons LearnCd
0.42      There are a number of lessons to be drawn from the implementation and outcome
of this project, including:
(i)       The group approach to extension has three major elements which
potentially give significant advantages over the T&V system; more
demand driven to resolution of farmerg problems, wider coverage of
extension contact with farmers, and greater direct interaction of
technicians and SMSs with farmers. These potential advantages will
only be fully realized if JT/JTAs are better trained in the principles
and techniques of the group approach, an awareness campaign is
mounted to inform farmers of the advantages of forming groups, the
activities of the field extension services are better organized and
regularized, and that availability of technical services and
information are improved.
(ii)      The change to the group approach to extension has meant that
JT/JTAs no longer receive regular fortnightly/monthly training and
district budget limitations severely restrict alternative in-service
training for them. Consideration has to be given to establishing
appropriate and regular in-service, short-course training programmes
for all JT/JTAs at IAAS.
(iii)     Extension services can only interact directly with a minority of the
farming community. Farmer training needs to be greatly expanded
with course curriculum designed to provide both increased
knowledge in new technologies and more fundamental principles of
agricultural production processes and financial analysis so that they
are empowered to become better and more independent decision
makers. It is suggested that the RATCs should become solely
responsible for farmer training.
(iv)      The potential value of SMSs to provide technical back-stopping to
JT/JTAs, to lead the introduction, evaluation and promotion of new
technologies, to provide technical information to farmers and to
provide an essential link between research and extension is greatly



35
under-exploited. SMSs are under-qualified for their tasks and
responsibilities and need specialized in-service training or post-
graduate training to upgrade their specialist knowledge and skills.
(v)        Management of extension services at all levels is weak. due to lack
of detailed operational plans. lack of individual job descriptions and
associated duties and responsibilities, lack of staff and unit
operational accountability, little scope for effective reward and
punishment, weak supervision, and a system of service that allows
rapid staff turnover in individual positions. It is essential that
managers at all levels be given appropriate management training, job
descriptions be detailed for all staff and proper planning and M&E
systems  be  introduced  to  ensurc  individual and  ,oilective
accountability in performance, achievement and output.
(vi)       Many of the problems associated with weak management are a result
of very weak or non-existent M&E. M&E requirements for analysing
the performance of the extension service, impact of extension
services on agricultural development and needs for further extension
and research programming, need to be spelled out precisely. It is
essential that DOAD establish an effective and efficient system of
survey, data collection, analysis and evaluation procedures and that
this information feeds back to management at all levels.
(vii)      DOAD requires a clearly defined staffing programme linked to a
coherent manpower development policy and planning and career
structure. Staff need motivating and improved reward and
remuneration has to form a key element. Provision of housing and
transport and associated allowances can achieve this while benefitting
project effectiveness. The quality and skills of staff at all levels need
to be substantially upgraded by further training. Consideration should
be given to the possibility to substantially increase salaries and
benefits through performance related pay.
(viii)     Research-extension linkages are extremely weak. Urgent attention is
required to introduce mechanisms to ensure formal linkages between
extension and research, such as: reintroduction of bi-monthly
meetings at district level between DOAD and NARC research
stations; joint systematic diagnosis of farmers problems and
opportunities to improve agricultural production; joint budgeting and
activity responsibility in research outreach programmes of NARC;
joint involvement in production, implementation and evaluation of
mini-kits and other demonstrations; joint operation and provision of
support services, such as laboratories for soils analysis, plant
protection, etc.; and establishment of a joint Research/Extension
Liaison Office in DOAD or NARC at regional level.
(ix)       Field extension staff are inadequately resourced with extension
materials. Increased emphasis has to be given to the utilisation of



36
modem media production technologies to quickly produce leaflets
tailor-made for local situations as well as supply pamphlets and
brochures on recommended cultural techniques and technologies, and
to reference printed materials from commercial suppliers of seed,
fertiliser, chemicals and equipment. These materials together with
graphic reference materials, such as full colour posters of crop pests
and diseases, need to be widely available for farmers to see in
district offices and ASCs.
(x)       Better use needs to be made of modem communications, especially
radio and video. Both TV and radio can be used, outside normal
broadcasting hours. to transmit material for recording and later use.
Video materials are available from libraries and agricultural input
suppliers.
(xi)      Operating budgets need to be realistically set and updated annually
in line with inflation. Overall project impact will be greatly
improved by properly funding a reduced number of activities rather
than by spreading resources too thinly.
D. FOLLOW-UP
0.43      On return to Rome, the mission will prepare the ICR for submission to World
Bank by about the end of April, 1995. HMGN agreed to provide the mission with their own
assessment of the project as a separate Implementation Completion Report by HMGN within
two weeks of the wrap-up meeting. The mission aide-memoire, with any amendments
required, and a copy of the HMGN Implementation Completion Report will be attached to the
ICR document prepared by the FAO/CP mission.



37
Proposed Operational Plan of the Project after its closure
(Dec. 31, 1994)
1. INTRODUCTION
The Project closed on Dec. 31, 1994 after three extensions of its closing date each for one year.
The project during its operation helped to strengthen agicultural extension service in the project
districts by providing basic infrastructures and institutions for staffs and farmers training staff
mobilitv and supervision and research-extension-fanner linkages. It provided financial supports
for constructions of office buildings, staff quarters, and other needed civil works and
procurement of furnitures transport facilities and equipments. In the later part of the project
phase the project initiated Farmer Centered Group Approach (FCGA) of Extension with Problem
Census / Problem Sohing (PC/PS) methodology as a suitable replacement for the individual
contact by the Training & Visit ( T & V ) System in the three Pilot Districts. Encouraged by the
experiences of FCGA and PC/PS in the three pilot districts the approach has already been
expanded to six more districts . The National Agricultural Extension Strategy for future has been
developed with mass consensus based on the experiences in the pilot districts and an Operational
Manual on PC/PS has also been finally drafted. HMG/MOA in future would persue the
approach for further strengthening of the extension service and consolidate the gains achieved
during past eight years of the implementation of the project. The following operational plan is
proposed to achieve the above stated objectives.
2. Operational Plan
S.N.   Activities                  Time Frame    Responsibilities   Monitoring
(what to do?)              (When to do?)  (Who to do?)    Indicators.
Taking Inventory of total  Will continue    DOADlDADOs  DADOs will
groups in the districts and  in phased                     provide reports
expanding PC/PS in self    manmer as                       eveIy four month
initiated effective groups.  planned in                    on number of
AEMP                           groups practising
preparation                     PC/PS in the
report                          districts, on an
I agreed format
2.     Encouraging women           do             do               do
participation in the group by
facilitating them in meeting
.___  their needs throuh PC/PS



38
3.     Expanding bottom-up         do             do               Yearly programme
planning & budgeting process                               and budget for the
in districts directly with farmer                          districts will be
beneficiaries groups through                               based on PC/PS.
PC/PS
4.     Bringing increased nos. of  Continuous     DOI/DOAD        Four monthly
Water Users Group (WUG) in  starting from    /DIOs/DADOs   report by DADOs
the in-igated area within the    Jan. 1, 1995              indicating WUGs
group approach & PC/PS                                     involvement in
ex-tension.                                                extension groups.
5.     Expanding use of transiated    Widthin i995    DOAD - for  Extension staffs at
version of Operational Manual              translation &   all level will be
in Nepali language in                      circulation and    oriented on FCGA
orientation of extension                   RADDs, CATC, & PC/PS
service and training of staff at           RATCs,
all level                                  DADOs - for
___________________   __________  training   of staffs.
6.     Filling up vacant positions of   Within 1995    MOA/DOAD    AU SMSs
important SMS in the districts.                            positions will be
filled up in the
districts.
7.     Strengthening District      Within 1995    MOA/DOAD        More effective co-
Agricultural Implementation                                ordination links
Committee (DAOIC) in                                       will be established
districts.                                                 among agriculture
development
related Govt.
agencies, NGOs
and private sectors
in the districts.
8.     Completion of unfinished civil Approximately  MOF/MOA      Incomplete
works                      witdin 1996    DOAD             building
construction will
I be completed.



39
Appendix 2
His Majesty's Government    P' 1:l
j               ~~~~~~~Miwistry of Agricul
SkUsh  mdubar
Ref:                             <tz'; ri=-'t sXx                  KATHIIMANOU, NE
Date: May 18, 1'
Dr. David Ivory,                                          OMAY 1995
c    r, C    r;:-.Ia,
ICR Mi5sion
Kathmandu.
Subject:- Implementation Comoletion Reoort of
AEP !I.
Please find a_tached herewith a copy of ICR of AEP - II, Sorrower'
.vieu point, to be ineluded in the final ICR prepared by you for IC
This report has been prepared as per the Aide-Memories af dated
April 30, 1995 of the IDA Mission.
Thanking You.
With Seat Regards.
Sincerely Yours,
Joint Secretary
c C:
C/o Tha I4orld Bank
Kathmandu.
Mr. 0. Manickavasagum,
The World Bank
KathmandU. : Plaase send one copy to LJ9 Washington
tbroLgh your regular pouct



40
ON AGRICIJLTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - 1I:
Borrower's View Point
Upon compicting the impircmcntation of the Agricuhurai Extension Project II ( 1985-
1994 ), this report attempts to (a) assess project objctives, design, implementation and
operanon experience and (b) evahlate its own and BankCs peiformancz during the evolution
and  impicmcntaion af the project, as per section 9.06 (c) of general condition of the DCA.
The report consist of four sections. Tle frst section presents MOAS evaluaton on the
overaa performance of the projee- The second section comments on project objecives,
d      implementation and opcration expenence. Mhe third section evahates its own and
Banks peifomianc. FmaUy, the fourth section states some major lessons leamed from the
implementation of the project
Proiect's Overall Assessment
Mhe Agricultural Fxtension - U Project (AEP-1I), which onginaly was a second
phase of IDA support to complete introduction of Training and Visit (T & V) System of
Agulural Exension in the reminig eleven disticts in the Temr became effecwtie in
September 1985. It wis restrucred and amended in December 1990 to mclude additional
ight Terai and four Hill districts previously covered under Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (AERP) and Hill Food Production Project (HFPP) respectively aftcr their
closure. Tho Prcject closed on December 31, 1994, after three extension of closing dates,
each for one calendar year. The ovrall achievement of the project could be sumunarized
as below:
1.1  Despite the fact that the project could not achieve most of is physical targets of civil
work constructions, procurements of vehicles and equipments, it has significanty
contributed to institutional development of MOA's agicultural extension service and
7taf'farmcrs trairings, and to strgthening research-exrension linkage and intr-
agncies co-ordination to a certain degree. All these have considerably contn-buted to
increases in agicultural production and growth that have occurred over the past years
in the country.
1.2  The project could provide a basic institutional frame work and significant number of
manpower for extension services from the center to villages and wards and
introduccd an effecttve systm of extension. However, implcmentation lacked the
cxpectations due mainly to management deficicncics and lacuna in quaty manpower
associated with appropriate technological support. Efforts need to be geared to
further consolidatc and improve on thems foundaions.
1.3  People's interest in public sector extesion services got heightenedi As a result the
aovernment is put into increasing pressure by the people to raise investmcms in



41
extension, and stengLhen it fiurthcr to make it mo  responsive to farmers necds,
priorities and problems. Prnject activities such as initiation of a farmercenteed
group approach with Problcm Cersus/Soling tcchniqu m agricultal c=nsion and
its contribution to formuiate National Agriculhral Extension Stratey provide a few
examples.
1.4  Importance of improving rcscarch-extension linkages and co-ordiation with other
related azencics (fl-aion. 1n-- sunpy, crca, :naLetimg e=c.) has ocen reaiid
and ned to continue ailampms to further strngthen these linkages and co-ordnaionL
1.5  The conccpts of rcgional agricuural trairing centers have been itutionalzed
thrugh a regional agciuural aing not work of tranig centers under the
Department of Agriculture Developmcnt
1.6  Provision of Subject Matter Specialists in Districn Agiculture Dvelopmnt OEce
dmining the project period was one of the major strcngths. This has been extended in
the structure of the reorganized district agriculturv devlopment ofesi
1.7 The Project was very much helpful in human resources development at villages and
local levels. Besides the group leadersfnnbe:rs tho large number of d-aied PLAAs
and AAs even after beig rcivd Som their contact sevics are stM contributing
sigificantly to Aanzontal tasfer of technology among faimers in the VDCs. Mazy
-E-PLAAs and'"As are actively engaged m mobiliwg and providing leadships for
frm=er groups and private production and distribution of agriculture inputs and
marketing of agriculture products.
2.   On AsEricultural Extension Proiect El
2.1 Proiect obiectives
In generaL projcmt objectives appear sound. HIowever, the extnsion approach,
which was supposed to reorgnize and stengthen tho extension servics on a
iustainod basis in the countmy had shalow and temporary foundation. For examplo,
on the one hand, the Project mtended to make the then Panchayat Level Agdcultural
Auistants (PLAAs) funl time extension workers at village leveL On the other hand,
the PLAAs were appoited temporariy on contract wih very low  financial
remuneration, not commnuranng with their responsi'iwes and work load. Thcse
PLAAs complined abour remunration and other facilities avaiable to them.
Moreover, in 1990 after the restoration of multiparty democracy, they petitoned the
governimnt to recognize thum as civil servants, inarease thao remImeraflon
conmcsurating with an appropnate leve of ciyll servic cadrc and provde other
reled benefits. As the demand was unffordae, the govcment decided  to
teminate themn from the contact service. This necessated  not only seamcing for
an alternative arrangement, but also brought about discomninuadon of fornighlty
uri   which in tun, led to the cesation of schcduled vit to the farms of contact
faame. Finay, this brought about the and of the T&V approach.



42
2.2  Project comyonqnt/desiM
2.2.1 Agicultural extension
The promision of programmed visits to fazmers from rcgulariy trined feld staff
nupporzed by professional advice from Subjcct Matter Specialists was well conceived.
However. the project missed to understand that it was diffcult to find well trained
and experienced Subject Mar Specialists in counny such as NepaL  As a result,
fresh B.Sc. graduatcs with no work experences were hired to the post of SMSs. As
thcy were on temporary recrut1enL }they werc compelled to scarch of permanent
job elsewhere. The countrs research system was also not stong enough to evolhe
technologies on continuous mamer to support to SMSs.
2. 2  The e.xnsion methodology
Making local people ( eight grade completed) PLAAs (full time extension workers)
after a one-month long intensive ttaining could not prove to be a sound proposition.
On one hand, AEP - 1I intended to professionaize extension service, and on dte
other, extension work was left to local people who had completed merely eight years
of schooling and taken to job on yearly contract service. Though many of the PLAAs
due to thew practical experience wer quit competnt in dimnsination of imple
toelmology among fanners but due to their low educational background were unable
to grsp complex technology. In addition, they could not be raken into permanent
civil senrice job- As a result, profss on of cxtnsion servie rcmaincd just an
*attempt
Due to lack- of sufficient provision of oxientarion and tra.iing to SMSs and fTlJTAs,
.b~ extension approach remained "top down' and farmers knowlcdge skill and
capabiities were not adequately addressed. Under the project support farmer -
cenered group approach of extension with Problem Census/Solving technique during
tho last two years of project period was consequently introduced.
2.2.3 Monitorin& and evaluadon
- The project design realized the inportance of M&E and stated that under the project,
farther monitorng /evaluation surveys would be caxied out on a regular basis
covaing qualty of training programs, dcevlopment of appropriate recomrdationsn
reguladity and quality m visits, adoption of recommendation, increased production
and consequent increase in farm incomes and effectiveness of production
oficcrsISMSs.  However, M  & E could not become regular acd%itics. Weak
supervision and guidance reduced the effetvenss of the extension efforts. Filling
the vacant posiDon of Senior Agdculual Offic n  Regimal Directorates of
Agriculture, and the position of Senior Agriculdral Extenion Ocr (SAEO) as
pro-visoned in the Project Appraisad could not materialize. Specifically, SAEOs who
wero to monitor, supenise and suppost extension activities could perhaps holps in
cffective monitoring, whdch somehow remained unaccomplished.



43
3.   Evaluation of Proiect Derformance
3.1  H    IL formanc
As has been stated earlier, the project missed to achieve many of the physical targets
set in the project appraisaL Not only were then targets rCvisCd, but also project was
restructured in 1990 to include twelve Terai and HIll districts making it all together
23 disricts covered by IDA funded other two projects, Agricultural Extension and
Rosearch Project (Cr. 1100-NEP) and Hil Food Production Project (Cr. 1101-
NEP). The Ifcloimzs were somc cf the factors affecting the peifornznce of the
project, in gen=Ua
3.1.1 As the project was initiated in 1985, it could not remain unaectcd from the trade
emba-go imposed by India during 198S189 and the subsequent policy of the then
govemment which discouraged projects to purchase vehicles such as Minibus and
Motorcycles to economize fuel consumpion. Construction of buildingiinfrastructure
was aso haltrd
3.1.2 The project could not function properly during people's movemenr for democracy in
1989 and even after the rcstoraton of democracy in 1990 for about a yoar or so as
the counny Was then polticaly disturbed . Besides this, in I99Z the   nistry of
dultur undertook a major reorganization, bringng parallel extension services of
ed crops and fisheies, horticulture and lvestock under a sinle administratve
managcment of the newly organized Depariment of Agriculture Development
(DOAD). Thkv MOA was reorganizod with a view to re-orient it to deal with farmers'
reliie. This ro        n   ad a significant impact on AEP - II and dectly
affected project operations because of changes in staff positions and o tinal
Utenors.
3.1.3 Frequent tumovcr of the Project Co-ordinators hmnpered timely implcmentacion of
project actWies to certain degrees.
3.1.4 The infrastructures, mainly the buildings constructed by the project at service centers
and village level did not match with the needs of the target groups and the new
nization of development of Agricultural Development.
3.1.5 The quality of the civil works was not to the desired standards due to inadequare
monitoring and supevision from  the qualified enginees. There was problem of
timly payment for the pnice escalation because of lack of provision in some of the
contactual agreements.



44
Apart from aforementioned facts, tic project had several constraiuts such as the folloing.
1.   Procurement under AEP II was slow, largely due to lengthy processing procedures.
2.   The Subject Marer Specialists who were the most impor-anr actors for the relevant
and responsive extension system, lacked specialized technical capacity and lack of
diagostic abilty which affected the implementation process.
3.   Aftr the establishment of the autonomous agricultural research system  in the
coun, rcsearch - extenon iinkages weakenen  An NIMO' is in process to be si-ged
between DOAD ana NARC ro strngthen the extension - research linkage for the
fi:ture.
Despite the aforemrntioned constrs and problems, the performance of the project over
c last three vears period has been highly satisfactorv and gained outstanding momentum.
During this later part, the project initiated Farmcr Centered Group Approach (FCGA) of
Extension with Problem Census/ Problen Solving (PC/PS) methodology as an appropriate
replacement for the individual contact by the Trairing & Visit (T&V) System in the three
pilot districts. Encouraged by the experiences of FCGA and PCOPS in the threc pflot
disticts the approach has alreadv been expanded to six more distrcts.
Th National Aricultural Extension Strategy for future has been developed with
consensus based on the experiences in the pilot districts and Operational Manual on PC/PS
ha also been fnully drafted. HMGIMOA in future would pursue the approach for furnher
savngthnisng of the'extension serice and consolidate the gauns achieved during past eight
yeam of the m           of the project.
Thcre was a remarkable success in working with farning community with this approach.
but, throe years of its tcnure could not be sufficicnt to test and apply the whole process of
PCPS in thc pilot districts as well as in other districts too.
An Operational Plan of the project has been proposed after its closure to achieve the above
stated objectrves and lIMGN/MOA is following the Operational Plan.
3.2 - Bank's Perfonnance
Iu general, Bank;'s performance during the implenentation of the project was higw
satifactory. The Bank supersed the Project thoroughly and well, and made many
constructive comments for improvements dusng implemcntation whic-h included
actiities such as iitiation of farmer cente.red group approach (ICGA) and PC/S
tccluuque in agricultural extension. Its support for the formulation of National
AVicultural Extension Strategy was highly appreciated by HMGN.
3.2.1 Supervision and monitoring of project acti-vites were done rcgularly by the WB
mison. The missions suggestions and recomnrnendations provided useful guidance
to the implementing agency for improvements.



45
3.2.2  The Bankes contmued support for te project was highly appreciated as agais
several problems and constraints with the borrower in the face of the polidcal
changes in the coumty durnng the implementation of the project
3.2.3  The ovcrall credit disbursement was 92 percen which was due to the devaluaion
of Nepaleso cunency as aainst US dollars. Otherwise m nerms of Nepaleac
cency, the disbursement was at satisfactory leveL
3.2.4  The missions recommendations helped to simplify and improve some of the rigid
and traditional bureaucratic rules such as procurement procedures and conveion
of temporary project posts to permancnt posts.
4. Lessons learned
4.1. A clar vision/mission for agaculkiral development and its commiment for executin
at all levels of governme  arte sinequanon before startng a project Any new project
should be in line with the total agncultural development polcics, objectives and
sutraegies so as to uinst et and make project acivities sustanablc even after thu
4.2  The iipleenions and the beneficiaries of the project must be invled to identify
the real nceds during project fonnulariozL
4.3  Oricntation  meetngs and workshops of policy makers, implnemors  and
beneficianies are very important in the begining of the project so as to obtain all
sorts of support and co-operation at different leveL
4.4  Auwnity and responsibiities for project unplementation at differcnt leIels must be
specified. Monitoring plans and measurble indicators should be developed at
different levels (vllage, serv:ice center, district, regional, central) and their verification
and feedback by The concerned supervisors are very essenial to strengthen the proper
nnplemctatiorL
4.5  Provision of TA Team from the donor side within the project secms crucial, if the
project is to achieve its objectives effectively.
4.6  The cxtension approach wil not sustain if it is gromded on shalow and temporary
foundation.
4.7 It requires dine, expedence and training to produce a 'Subject Matter Specialist4.
4.8  3Msmatch among vaious componcnts of knowledge system ( rcsarchers, fames,
extensiomuts and their organization) will likely make a project "top down".



46
4.9  Untading  of local processe  of expi on  and  rmowtioin, and
incorponion  of indigous knowldge and kldls aro crucial  if the project is to
oome out for the donant uaecr of wchnogy mode of ntv=on.
4.10 Providing           to mobize entwu vilae level extension works to PLAAs
vaout srong suct ma   supp     rom  more qualifid and expericnced
pmuonnel was a  lmamial sortcomig ia tX project dign.
4.11 Contned support by the Bank would be of great value for firther carrying on the
apcullwal developmen through ft instniienr of appropiate projects.



4 7                                Appendix 3
-2             His Majesty'b Government                                         Phone 2-15322
2515507
e                       4feitrs   v                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M;oDstr of Agricl
Ref:   <    _                                                                 CKATHMANIDV NEPAL
Date ; July 10,1995
5'&b: Amicu1Zu Extcnsion l Proiect lIrrlemen Dtion
Co=pltion &== for Commnert                  10 JUl 1995
Mr. Joe Mnkkavasag
Resident Representat&ce
The World Bank
Katladu.
DearMr Joe,
Thank you for youretcr- datcd lune 26, 1995. Please fnd  attached?copy of our
cmments on Ilcmcnlion Completion Report (ICR) of Agicmftul Etension 11
Project (Cr. 1570/.NEP) prepared by FAO/CP.
With Best Regards.
Sincerely Yours
(.L
Joint Sse:rc'ay
C.C. with attachunents:
Mr. S. K1 Shrestha
Director GCncral
DOAD, Harihar Bhawan.L
lr. 3. P. Biraol
AEP f, Harih-ia Blsawz-
Mr. _ K Shrestha
Under Secretary
MOF, Bgd='bar.



48
Appendix 3
COMMENTS  ON  ITPLEMENTATION  CONfPLETION  REPORT  OF
AGRICULTURAL    EXTENSION    PROJECT   II  (Cr. 1570-NEP)



49
Appendix 3
MOA's Comments on the Lmplementaton Completion Report (Report No. 67/95
CP-NEP 51 ICR) of Agricultural Extension Project II ( Cr- 1570/NEP )
This paper presents MOAMs comments on the implermentation completion report No. 67/95 CP-
NEP 51 ICR of the World Bank fimded Agricultral Extension Project IT prepared by FAOICP.
The reporc was sent to the MOA/EMG earlier by the World Bank on 26 June 1995.
The Ministzy of Agiculure, in general, agrees vih most of the findings and recommendations of
the ICR, however, the Mivlnistry would li;e to bring forth the following issues flither. -  -_:
(a)  DespiEe that the ICR realzed the possfibe effect of the past poliical sitaton and 1990's civil
unrest on project implementation (article 22), it seemed that the ICR did not take into
account thes issues whie rating the project peformance in terms of achievement of project
objectves, project sustainabiliry and borrower's petformance (Table 1: Surmmary of
Assessments).
(b)  The ICR has ovelooked the weakaesses of the extension approach/system (I & V) intenal
to it The report suggested that the AEP did not functon properly and failed to achicve some
of tho physical target. However, the MOA feels that not only the implemcntation of the,
project but also thc systerns shortcomings (e.. T & V system) are equally responsible to
lack iwexpected perfonnance. The ICR has overiooked this fact AS for cxample, replicating
the Trainng and Vsit system of agiculural exnsion introduced ta 1975-76 in two
imgation command districts (Bara and Parsa) in 1985 w%hour carcful assssment and
appropnate modification was a fimdamental shrtomg of tle AEPI LMe wice, the
project was not very clear with the role of agzicukural assistants. Although the idea of
develomng local farmer volhmner leaders as para-professionals was very sound, yet, in
practice, they were trcated not as volunteer local leader but as pardy paid extension agents
which ultimately trned to be counter productive.
(c)  The Misson did not mention the MOAs concern to strengthen and improve agricultural
trainmg activics. The establishment of the Cental Agdculmal Training Centre (CATC) to
momtor and supervise regonal agrcultural training centers should be viewed from this
pespective. The CATC has been providing not only trainers' training to traines of the
regional taining centers and district offlices, bu; also providing overseas taininag and visit
opportunities to them. The assistance of the CATC ix training materials development and
publication of taners' manual is worth mrnticni,g However, MOA is fully aware of the



50
Apnendix 3
nced to further improve tLe quality of taining. The frequent transfer of staff to and from
RATCs has reduced the quality of training. In the futLe the Nfinistry, wiv be careful for not
to transfer =AkLers firom RATCs fteuenly.
Ia addiiion to the above, the MtOLA would l;e to note the fobliowng points about the
functiornng of the AEP II.
1. On management and implementation of the T&V system:
The  IOA nores the comamens of rhe management and 'uzplemenmadon of the T&-V systern
-.  in Nepal and its affect on the pro,ect pz--6onance. The XIlnistr; has realizcd the
shortcongs and weak-nesses in the endsta Sinanc-ial ruls and regulations, so steps hav-e aJready
been takecn to amnd such. rulcs and reguladamos that blooked the corstructior: and prc-curement in
time.
2. On monitorin- and evaluation:
Despite that the World Barnk supervision rmissions insisred to estaLlish M&E units and the MIOA
recogized the value of M&E srve; data colectiOnL analysis and evaluation procedures. it was
something wanting. This is pa'ly'due to Lhe on-going reorganization of tho MOA structure wlhich
was iuitiated together NIth the promulgation of the Basic Needs programe inm 19S7. And there
were sevcral reasons for not appro%ing the position of Serior Agriculrural Extension Officer as
provisioned in the project appraisal In short the need for this position was not fully justified since
Regional Directors in each of the five regions wvera meant to perform the job similar to SAEOs.
3. On research-extension linkage
The Ministry has felt that research-extension luinkges have been weakzned following the granting
of auronomy to national research system and subsequent establishment of Nepal Agricultural
Rcsearch Council. The linkages have become wveak- due to thc reorganization of the research
svstem also. Not only has the Ministry taken this issue se-doushl, but also, the concmrned e-xtnsion
and research establishments at all levels. Heac a workable arrangement-MOU is in the process.
Fimally; the ICR report is fine and useful to improv edistina agricultural exrension system. Of the
ree importamt findings stated in the ICR (page ti). he Mnisy does not fully aszre with the
statement that inadequate and inappropriato etaining for JTJTTAs and SMSs onrd- has limited their



51
kAppendix 3
effecrveness m par,iding the necessaxy support to farmers in. agicuturAl development. indeed,
part of the problem lies in trairig, Bu4 part of the problem lies i; the selection and rez2tmene
procodurcs of the SBS&. On one hand SMSs wcre to be appointed from among fresh graduates
with no specialization in their field of expertise and wo&k On the other hand, project performance
crtirely depended on these temporary' staff. In trms of job responsibilty, they were overestimated.
wh:re as. in tems of job security and qualificadon, they were employed temporarily to discharge
duies.
As mentioned in che ICR, the project has changed its course of action over the last three years,
made farmers realize the imporunce of improved extension serice. and s-cceeded to dernonstrate
the value of problem census/problem solving technique wthi the group approach. In Niewv of this.
the mistr- of Agricultae is conminced for initiatin a new project with new vision mission ad
structure which would be resDonsive to fame' needs, problems and realitiecs boEh in the theory
And the practico      5u  a9asP.






MAP SECTION






80                                             A,8'                                                                                               ^                                               88'
N-.I
N  E P A L
3Cy /'(' ) '"V75                                               C>                  AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT TT
f/           )               ')                     Zr                                                                                        Projec   D str, E
-A /)  <__r'  '   >>,       \                           /                                             ></////      Pro ect Yeaor 
. rA    7T      _ ,       r , , -
\ ' N - T         f-                                      "I                '                                                                         Prc,ec' Year
Ai*A &AJ :A                .       r   K          M.j                r. ~                      ,                                                    Deie     < F-i     _  roC r     e c U[s)r. .
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P ec He^ ,  ,_  \
SE                       T I               N                          p rz '        J-      = n                                           DeelriDe   r Region        n Peisting Re  Et   search ana
I                     A,                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ba un dari es    Training Facilities.
7                                                 ______  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District Boundaries     Khumaltar Research Stataon
t.  ~   ~      ~       i                                                   N- Zonal Boundaries                                               D   Regional Research Stations
~~   K  .*         jv-                                  ,          --  -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~international Boundaries  A   Research Sub-stations
'iP   st4.-i$y4       9"'.           '--I           \   v-         9                                , 1                                              A   Reg,onol Troa,ng Centers
)           t              L R   4,          /   {>  \             X     g              /        J 5rS       ,.'          9    }(          19 i,  A   K  j
-                                                                             2~~~~, -
_ ' lAtNstudruG f                                                     B tA  G  M  A T I
;             L iJ MBR iN                            K Lr -J  I
~~r-~'~N ~    A                     Q)                                     /5
o              ioo~~~~~~~~~Ai7
__N                                               /|/ _______       /4
K or sl    r i '00                                                                                                         - .    ,Sb        ^ t    /    
'1%      C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
~F,',ri .-'iihAriAi a"Aif .r .-AI..    -,,e.&.,A..... ,ai sSr h...... Ai Ad..A.. / I..IWl1faAi                                                                                                           "0lteztro1es   
r5tF S tSx @jh tSrz: 1ffreQ            8?'u>Ss 81.7d dea!                                                                                                            Ir z  1.1Z- rzvn'  ;nBrhsr aAlD 1rm 0r/ m o|
>1Xn S n B thH 1 f I hI rhe aLsolq1 llink dnJ Ihh III/&/S^lZf/erss i sx sxJ1 r C-zLex|xatdUsn .Ins :de1Qerusnt 9












