Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GA /3j?o>K ,
Repot N.. 5096-NEP
NEP&L
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
March 6, 1985
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division
This document a a restrited distibution and may be used by rcipients only in the performmance of
their offichd duies. Us contets umxy not otherwise be discosed witht Wodd Bank autwhization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$ 1 - Nepalese Rupees 18.5
WEIGHTS AND MESURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABEREVIATONS
AL       -   Agricultural Assistant
AADO     -   Assistant Agricultural Development Officer
ADBN     -   Agricultural Development Bank, Nepal
ADO      -   Agricultural Development Officer
AIC      -   Agricultural Inputs Corporation
CSP      -   Cropping Systems Program
CTC      -   Central Technical Comumittee
DDG      -   Deputy Director General
DG       -   Director General
DOA      -   Department of Agriculture
DTC      -   District Techuical Committee
BMI      -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICP      -   Integrated Cereals Project
JT       -   Junior Technician
JTA      -   Junior Technical Assistant
M4&A     -   Ministry of Agriculture
PC       -   Project Coordinator
PLAA     -   Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistant
PO       -   Production Officer
ROO      -   Research Outreach Officer
RRC      -   Regional Research Coordinator
RRS      -   Regional Research Station
RTC      -   Regional Training Center
S.EO     -   Senior Agricultural Extension Officer
SMs      -   Subject Matter Specialist
T&V      -   Training and Visit System



FOR OMCLIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summry
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND * ....................................  ......    I
A. Introduction ......................1
B. The Country                                      .1
C. Agriculture in Nepal 2.                                       2
Agricultural Institutions                                    3
Bank's Role in the Agricultural Sector         .. .6
D   The Project Area ..7
The Terai Region .7...............                 .7
Nepal's Experience with Improved Extension.                  8
Justification and Project Rationale .................. ..  11
II_   THE PROJECT                                      . .12
A.  General Description ................. ...................  12
Project Districts        ......................................   12
Project Phasing .......     .................................   13
B. Detailed Features ...........                        ...  .0   13
Agricultural Extension ............. ....   14
Strengthening of Engineering Unit .................   21
Monitoring and Evaluation .................   21
III.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING .....................    22
A.  Cost Estimates .      .................    22
B.  Proposed Financing .....    23
C.  Procurement .................   24
D.  Disbursements, Accounts, and Audit .................   25
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ................................  27
Project Implementation ....... . . ..  .... .   ............ . .    27
National Level Coordination             .....               28
Linkages Between Extension and Research                     28
Training  ... .30
V.    BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ..........  30
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS ..32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
1. Costs Tables
Table 1       -  Simmary of Project Costs
Table 2       -  Civil Works
Table 3       -  Vehicles and Equipment
Table 4       -  Incremental Staff Costs
Table 5       -  Incremental Operating Costs
Table 6       -  Training Costs
Table 7       -  Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 8       -  Requirement and Availability of Extension Staff
Table 9       -  Requirement of Extension Staff by Year
2.  Training
3.    Table 1       -  Implementation Schedule
Table 2       -  Estimated IDA Disbursements
4.    Table 1       -  Economic Analysis
Table 2       -  Economic Price Build-up
5. Related Documents Available in Project File
Chart I - 25853     -  Extension Organization
Chart 2 - 25854     -  Linkage Between Extension and Research
Map   - IBRD 17960R



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:       Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:         SDR 7.4 million (US$7.2 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Proiect
Description:  The project is the second phase of an IDA-supported
introduction of the Training and Visit (T&V) extension
system in Nepal. This phase would reorganize and
strengthen agricultural extension services in eleven
administrative districts in the Terai with the objective of
achieving early and sustainable improvement in agricultural
productivity. The project would aim to bring about these
increases by advocating adoption of low-cost and
labor-intensive agricultural practices, sound irrigation
water management, tbus facilitating better cropping
patterns, greater crop diversification and more efficient
fertilizer usage. The project would also provide for
training of staff and monitoring and evaluation of project
activities. Given our experience with the first project
and the considerable expertise we have developed in
introducing the T&V system in Nepal and other countries in
the region, no major risks are anticipated. Moreover, the
second phase builds upon an existing extension structure,
the incremental cost per hectare and per farm family is low
and, therefore, even small production increases would
generate high returns. Risks arising out of extension
staff management have been minimized by providing that all
staff would fall under the administrative control of a
single government agency.



Estimated                     Item                Local      Foreijn    Total
Cost:                                           ----US$ million---
Civil Works                         1.3        1.3        2.6
Vehicles and Equipment              0.2        0.8        1.0
Incremental Staff                   1.6          -        1.6
Incremental Operating Cost         0.5         0.3        0.8
Training                           0.4           -        0.4
Mouitoring and Evaluation           0.1          -        0.1
Total Base Costs                 4.0         2.4        6.5
Contingencies
Physical Contingency             0.4         0.3        0.7
Price Contingency                0.9         0.5        1.4
Total Proiect Costs              5.3         3.2       8.5
Finaucinx Plan
Local     Foreign    Total
---US$ million--
IDA                     4.0        3.2        7.2
RMGN                    1.3           -       1.3
Total                 5.3        3.2        8.5
Estimated
Disbursement:
IDA FY
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91 11
Annual        0.3    0.7    1.6    2.0    2.1    0.5
Cumulative      -    1.0    2.6    4.6    6.7    7.2
VJ One semester.
Economic
Rate of Return:              50 percent
Appraisal
Report:       NEPAL - Agricultural Extension Project : Phase II
Report No. 5096-NEP, dated March 6, 1985



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
I. BACKGROUND
A. rntroduction
1.01    As part of Bank assisted irrigation projects in the Terai region of
Nepal, His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMC) introduced the Training and
Visit System (T&V) of agricultural extension (over the period 1975-79) into
six districts. 1/ Encouraged by increasing yields achieved in the first two
districts (Bara and rarsa covered by the Narayani Irrigation Project), HMG
decided, at the time of the formulation of the Sixth Five Year Plan, to set
up a more effective and unified National Agricultural Extension Program in
the Terai. As part of this strategy HMG, with assistance from IDA, intro-
duced improved agricultural extension into a further eight districts 2/ of
the Terai. HMG has since decided to extend the system to the remaining
districts of the Terai. The proposed project would cover six districts not
covered under the previous project and also continue the strengthening of
extension services in five irrigation project districts (previously covered
under IDA assisted projects) to ensure an uniform approach, and thus complet-
ing the coverage by improved extension of all the 20 Terai districts. 3/ With
the consent of HMG, Mr. R.C. Mishra, Project Coordinator, Agricultural Exten-
sion and Research Project formulated a draft outline of the proposed project.
Preappraisal of the project was carried out by IDA in November/ December
1983. This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal by
Mr. R. V. Ramakrishna (IDA) who visited Nepal in Marc'h 1984.
B. The Country
1.02    Nepal is landlocked between China and India.  It is divided into
three parallel ecological zones running east-west: the Terai plain, an exten-
sion of the Gangetic Plain of India; the Hills, actually the foothills of the
Himalayas, ranging from 500 M to 4,000 M in elevation; and the Himalayan
1/ Birganj and Narayani Irrigation Projects (Crs. 373 and 856-NEP) in Bara,
Parsa and Rautahat districts; Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project: Stage
I (Cr. 654-NEP) in Rupandehi district; and Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and
Drainage Development Project (Cr. 1055-NEP) in Sunsari and Morang dis-
tricts.
2/ Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP) covering Jhapa,
Sarlahi, Mahottari, Dhanusha, Kapilabastu, Chitwan, Nawalparasi and Banke
districts.
3/ Rupandehi district is fully covered by improved extension under the ongo-
ing Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project: Stage II (Cr. 1316-NEP,
US$16.0 M, effective 1983).



-2-
Mountains to the North. These three zones account for 17 percent, 68 per-
cent, and 15 percent of the total area (140,800 sq.km), respectively. Rivers
and streams, running north to south, cut the Hills into isolated areas and
varying microclimatic conditions and provide a range of conditions for plant
growth, depending on elevation, aspect, cloud cover, sLope, etc.
1.03    Nepal's population, 96 percent of which is rural, is currently
estimated at 15 M and is increasing at a rate of 2.7 percent annually. About
44 percent of the population lives in the Terai, where a higher rate of
population increase (4.1 percent) is partially due to migration from the
Hills and India. GNP per capita in Nepal, at about US$170, is among the
lowest in the world.
1.04    Administratively, Nepal is divided into five development regions.
Each of these comprises a section of the country, running north to south,
containing Mountain, Hill and Terai areas. Each development region is
divided into either two or three development zones, which are further divided
into districts. The districts contain varying numbers of town and vilLage
panchayats and there are nine wards (the smaLlest socioeconomic units) in
each panchayat. In rural areas the ward consists of about two hamlets.
C. Agriculture in Nepal
1.05    With farm production and related activities comprising about 60
percent of GDP, agricultural development is the key to economic development
in Nepal. Agriculture engages about 90 percent of the labor force and
provides more than 80 percent of all merchandise exports. Only about one
sixth of the land area is available for cultivation of which about 15 percent
is irrigated. About 90 percent of the cropped area is grown to foodgrains,
predominantly rice (half of cropped area), followed by maize, wheat and
pulses. Less than 10 percent of the cropped area is under cash crops, mainly
oilseeds, jute, sugarcane and tobacco.
1.06    During the seventies, the trend in production of major foodgrains
was not encouraging, except for wheat which increased at an a-verage rate of
9.6 percent p.a. Overall production grew at 1.1 percent annually largely due
to expansion in acreage, while average yields, again with the exception of
wheat, fell at a rate of 0.8-0.9 percent per year. Erratic monsoon condi-
tions and uneven distribution as well as higher cost of fertilizers partly
account for the decline, but inadequate extension advice and other supporting
services, cultivation of marginal lands and inappropriate pricing policies
have also contributed to the slow growth.
1.07    Agricultural Strategy.  Nepal's Sixth Plan (1980-85) has given
priority to increased food production in the Hills and the Terai. So far in
the Sixth Plan, HMG has devoted special efforts to increasing the supply and
storage of fertilizer, improving extension services in the Terai, increasing
and encouraging the proper utilization of irrigation, and to accelerating
the completion of seed and post harvest grain preservation projects. These
efforts, aided by favorable monsoons, led to agricultural GDP growth of 10



-3-
percent in 1980/81 and 3.5 percent in 1981/82. The high growth in 1980/81
was from a base of 1979/80 output and which had been low due to drought. When
averaged over the more normal 1978/79 production base, agricultural growth in
1980/81 was about 2.5 percent, which was still higher than the rate obtained
in many preceeding years. The highest gross foodgrain production (3.7 M
tons) in 1981/82 was 16 percent below the 4.4 K tons required to satisfy the
minimum needs of the population. In 1982/83, Nepal experienced another
drought and compared to the previous year agricultural output declined by an
estimated 11 percent. 1983/84, however, has been a favorable year with
preliminary estimates indicating gross foodgrain production of 4.2 M tons,
compared to 3.3 K tons in 1982/83.
Agricultural Institutions
1.08    Agricultural development and policy are the main concern of four
ministries: the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), che Ministry of Forests and
Soil Conservation, the Ministry of Water Resources and the Ministry of Land
Reform. MOA includes the Department of Agriculture (DOA) which is respon-
sible for promoting production through research, training and extension. MOA
has also overall responsibility for institutions such as the Agricultural
Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and the Agricultural Inputs Corporation
(AIC). The Director General of Agriculture heads DOA and is assisted by four
Deputy-Directors General one each responsible for Crop Development, Extension
and Services, Horticulture and Fisheries, and Planning and Coordination.
1.09    Agricultural Research.  Agricultural Research is the responsibility
of DOA and is administered by a Deputy Director General (DDG) working under
the Director General of Agriculture. The research service operates a total
of 52 centers located throughout the country: 7 in Eastern Region, 25 in
Central Region, 10 in Western Region, and 10 in Far Western Region. These
consist of (a) research stations (for cereal crops); (b) research centers
(for cash crops); and (c) research farms, the latter being mainly engaged in
seed multiplication. The research service is charged with the responsibility
for providing suitable agricultural technology for development of all the
regions and climatic zones of Nepal. Considerable progress in the develop-
ment of appropriate farming recommendations has been made largely as a result
of the Integrated Cereals Project (ICP), assisted by USAID. This program has
shown the benefits of a coordinated approach to rice, wheat, and maize
research and production. The Cropping Systems Program (an integral part of
ICP) has been able to develop improved cropping patterns and technology in
selected districts of the Terai under irrigated and rainfed conditions
through use of short duration varieties, early planting, introduction of
additional crops into the rotation and balanced fertilizer use. In the
irrigated lowland areas, cropping patterns e.g., Rice-Wheat-Maize,
Rice-Wheat-Murngbean and Rice-Mustard-Maize using improved technology
developed by the Cropping Systems Program (CSP) produced marked increases in
annual yields and returns as compared to prevailing traditional cropping
pattern of Rice-Wheat-Fallow. As a first step, to increasing production on a
wider scale, DOA has implemented a Pilot Production Program (by mobilizing
timely supply of seed, fertilizer, credit and irrigation water and embodying
the recommendations of CSP) over compact blocks of 150-500 ha. As a result



-4-
of adoption of this improved technology, total annual yields of all crops
under irrigation have increased from 4.5 tons/ha to between 6.5 and 7
tons/ha. Under rainfed lowland conditions, a few common cropping patterns
have also been developed using improved technology and have led to sig-
nificant yield increases. During the last winter season, a Pilot Production
P'ogram was initiated for rainfed areas involving adoption of improved prac-
tices under existing crop rotations.
1.10    Under the IDA assisted Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 1100-NEP) and the Cash Crop Development Project (Cr. 1339-NEP), agricul-
tural research activities in the Terai are being strengthened by providing
staff, equipment and buildings and decentralized by designating four of the
existing research stations as Regional Research Stations (RRS). These are at:
Tarahara (Eastern Region), Parwanipur (Central Region), Bhairawa (Western
Region), and Nepalganj (Far Western Region). In addition, four research
substations located at Nawalpur for oilseeds (Sarlahi district), Jitpur for
sugarcane (Bara district), and Belachapi for tobacco and Hardinath for hor-
ticulture and cereals (Janakpur district) are being developed.
1.11    Each RRS, headed by a Regional Research Coordinator, is responsible
for coordinating research activities on RR.S and research substations located
within the region. Research efforts focus on principal crops grown under the
different agroclimatic conditions prevailing in the jurisdiction of each RRS
with special emphasis on varietal trials, improvement of cultivation prac-
tices, dryland farming techniques, soil and water management, improved farm
implements, and farming systems and cropping patterns designed to increase
farmers' income levels. Research substations are used for testing of
research results and to work on specific crops allotted to them. One
Research Outreach Officer (ROO) has been provided for each RRS with respon-
sibility for designing and helping in carrying out adaptive trials or.
farmers' fields and to work closely with subject matter specialists (SMS),
extension staff, farmers, and research workers, and form an important link
between research and extension. ROO also has an active role in training SMS
which is carried out at RRS once every two months.
1.12    As a result of the above, research activities throughout the Terai
have been reorganized, considerably strengthened and a flow of relevant and
practical technology started.
1.13    Agricultural Credit.  The single major source of institutional credit
is the Agricultural Development Bank, Nepal (tDBN), established in 1968. It
is expected to provide the overall credit reqjirements of agriculture and
agro-based inductries, and ensure effective mobilization of rural savings.
The Sajha (cooperative) program provides short term production credit to
farmers with funds made available from ADBN for onlending to its members.
More recently, comnercial banks have also become involved in agricultural
credit but their volume of lending is small.
1.14    The standard terms and conditions of lending by ADBN are 18 months
duration for short cerm loans with a 15 percent annual interest rate, 7 years
for medium loans at 12 percent annual interest rate, and 20 years for long



-5-
term loars with an 8 percent interest rate. ADBN has no constraints in the
delivery of credit as it has offices located throughout the country.
1.15    Lending by ADBN increased about eight-fold during the five year
period between 1972/73 (Rs. 36 M) and 1977/78 (Rs. 283 Mi. Lending, however,
declined thereafter in 1978/79 (Rs. 218 M), 1979/80 (Rs. 140 M), and 1980/81
(Rs. 134 M). The total lending increased to Rs. 140 M in 1981/82. Further
increases are reported for 1982/83. The main reason for decline in lending
operations was due to deteriorating repayment performance. Loan overdues
increased from 22.6 percent (Rs. 50 M) to 47 percent (Rs. 217 M) in 1979/80.
Since then the situation has improved. The Asian Development Bank has
provided continued assistance to ADBN tor agricultural credit and small
farmer development.          h
1.16    Cooperativyes.  The Sajha development program was introduced in early
1976 to revitalize the cooperative movement, mobilize local savings, and to
link economic development with political decentralization at the local level.
The objectives of the Sajhas are to provide credit, agricultural inputs and
marketing facilities, as well as to sell consumer goods (salt, kerosene,
coarse cloth, diesel oil, rice and sugar). At present, one Sajha serves on
an average, three to four panchayats. Further, at the village panchayat
level, they act as the local agent of the Agricultural Inputs Corporation.
There are 1,170 registered societies, the majority of which suffer from poor
management and lack of resources.
1.17    Agricultural Inputs.  The Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC), is
the sole government agency responsible for supply of inputs and was estab-
lished in its present form in 1975/76.  Its functions include: (a) importa-
tion and distribution of chemical fertilizers and maintenance of a buffer
stock sufficient for at least one cropping season; (b) collection, process-
ing, storage and distribution of improved seed and assistance toDOA in
conducting seed multiplication programs; (c) procurement and distribution of
agricultural chemicals for plant protection and grain storage; and (d) dis-
tribution of locally manufactured agricultural tools and implements as well
as importation and distribution of agricultural machinery. AIC also multi-
plies improved seed through contract growers end is responsible for distribu-
tion of seed produced on government farms. In general AIC suffers trom Lack
of finances to import fertilizer on time and ;n adequate quantities. In
recent years about 40 percent ot fertilizer imports, largely urea and complex
mixtures, have been obtained in the form of external commodity aid. The
prices of chemical fertilizer, sold in Nepal are fixed at an un.form rate
throughout the country by HMG, taking into account the import prices and
retail prices in the adjoining border areas of India. The uniform pricing
practice implies subsidization of the cost of fertilizer, particularly to the
Hills. However, the bulk of fertilizers (90 percent) is consumed in the
Terai and the Kathmandu Valley. Partly as a result of declining import
prices and increased retail prices, the rate of subsidy on the import price
of Urea has been re*i.oced from 32 percent in 1980/81 to nil .n 1983!84, and
for complex fertilizer from 26 percent in 1980181 to 3 parcent in 1'i83/84.
Transportation cost of seed from the Terai to the Hills is fully subsidized.
Budgetary subsidies to AIC amounted to Rs. 56 M in 1982/83, equivalenL to



-6-
about 3 percent of regular expenditure and 2 percent of current revenue in
that year.
1.18    Agricultural Prices.  A principal aim of agricultural pricing policy
in Nepal has been to ensure low and stable food prices for consumers who
spend 70 to 80 percent of their incomes on food. Producer price policy has
aimed at providing input subsidies and announcing minimum support prices,
usually fixed at below the expected market prices, for major foodgrains and
cash crops but keeping in mind the need to contain consumer prices. While
fertilizer procurement and distribution is entirely a public sector undertak-
ing (AIC) in Nepal, the grain output market is predominantly a private sector
operation and public procurement of foodgrains amounts to less than 15 per-
cent of marketed output. The Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) procures
foodgrains in the Terai for distribution to the deficit Hill &reas and sub-
sidizes transportation costs to the Hills at a differential rate, which
increases in direct relation to the remoteness of the deficit areas. Over-
all, budgetary subsidies to NFC amounted to Rs. 80 M in 1982/83, equivalent
to 4 percent of regular expenditure, and 3 percent of current revenue, in
that year.
The Bank's Role in the Agricultural Sector
1.19    The Bank, through its current and proposed programs seeks to assist
Nepal's development objectives and strategy and the agricultural aector has
received priority in the Bank's lending program. Past investments have been
predominantly oriented towards increasing agricultural production with
emphasis on the agriculture of the Terai and development of its major irriga-
tion infrastructure - the Birganj and Narayani Irrigation Projects (Crs.
373-NEP and 856-NEP); the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project (Cr. 812-NEP);
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Projects I and II (Crs. 654-NEP and 1316-NEP);
and the Mahakali Irrigation Project I (Cr. 1055-NEP). These projects have
made satisfactory progress (para 1.30). The Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP) will reorganize extension services in eight
districts of the Terai and strengthen applied and adaptive research (para
1.29). The recently started Cash Crops Project (Cr. 1339-NEP) will promote
the commercial production of sugarcane, tobacco and oilseeds in the Terai,
initiate pilot development of sericulture (Hills) and groundnut, and
strengthen ginger research (Hills). In addition, IDA is assisting in
integrated rural development in the Hills (Cr. 939-NEP) which also addresses
hill food production and includes a minor irrigation component. Implementa-
tion of this project has been slow. The Hill Food Production Project
(Cr. 1101-NEP) pays particular attention to improving extension, input supply
and minor irrigation in Gandaki Zone. The project is progressing slowly.
The Community Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1008-NEP) in the Hills and
the Second Forestry Project (Cr. 1400-NEP) in the Terai address urgent
ecological problems. Implementation of the Community Forestry Project in the
Hills is satisfactory. The Second Forestry Project, located in the Terai,
has recently become effective.



-7-
E. The Project Area
The 1arai Region
1.20    The Terai lies below the southern foothills of the Siwalik range and
stretches the length of Nepal as part of the Indo-Gangetic Plain. The region
covers about 21,800 sq.km (about 15 percent of the country). The elevation
of the region varies from 100 meters above sea Level near the Indian border
to 500 meters near the foothills. A large number of streams and rivers
(including three of the major rivers of Central Himalayas) enter and cross
the Terai.
1.21    Climate.  The average annual temperature is about 240C.  Temperatures
are high between March and October when the mean monthly range is between 20
and 300C. November to February are cold winter months with mean monthly
temperatures between 14 and 230C. The average rainfall is about 1,600 mm per
year. There is considerable ann-ual variation in the duration of the rainy
season, and in the total amount of rainfall. The average number of rainy
days is 81, the peak season being June-September when 80 percent of rainfall
occurs.
1.22    Soils.  The Terai plain forms the piedmont in the northern part of
Indo-Cangetic depression which has been filled by recent alluvial material
derived from the Himalayas. Soils vary from sandy to silty with thick gravel
fans in the northern part. The soil pattern changes from north to south and
also from east to west depending on nearness to sources. The texture of soil
varies from coarse sand to graveL on foothill slopes to medium sand and silt
in the middle of the Terai, and to somewhat heavier clay soils near the
Nepal-India border.
1.23    Irrigation.  According to current estimates, about 340,000 ha receive
some form of irrigation in the Terai comprising 110,000 ha developed by the
Government and 230,000 ha from private sources. Most of the area developed
by the Government is in Central (42 percent) and Eastern (34 percent)
Regions.
1.24    Crops and Production.  With average hoLding sizes of between 1.4 to
2.0 ha, crop production in the Terai is dominated by rice and wheat which in
1981182 accounted for 64 and 16 percent, respectively, of the total cropped
area - a total of 80 percent. Maize (8 percent), oilseeds (6 percent), jute
(2 percent), sugarcane (1 percent) and millet (1 percent) made up most of the
balance. Comparison with the statistics for 1971/72 indicates that over the
decade to 1981/82, the cropped area in the Terai has increased by some
172,000 ha or about 12 percent. The most significant change has been the
more than two-fold increase in area planted to wheat, from 112,000 ha to
249,000 ha. The areas under sugarcane and oilseeds have also increased
significantly but other crops have remained at the same levels. Over the
10-year period 1970/71 to 1980181, the Terai accounted for 65 percent of the
national cropped area and approximately the same proportion of national
output on a weight basis.



-8-
1.25    The average yields of important crops and those obtained by farmers
using improved technology are given below:
Tcble 1.1: Yields of Important Crops
Crop            Average Yield       Yields obtained by good farmers
kgs/ha         ------------kgs/ha -------------
Irrigated       Unirrigated
Paddy               1,900           2,700 - 3,500             2,000
Maize               1,680                             1,700 - 2,000
Millets               960                                     1,100
Wheat               1,329           2,400 - 3,100    1,400 - 1,700
Oilseed/Pulses        600                                       800
Sugarcane          24,000                           30,000 -35,000
Nepal's Experience with Improved Extension
1.26    Prior to 1975, there was no organized system of agricultural exten-
sion in the Terai and several factors contributed to the relatively low level
of effectiveness of the extension service in increasing productivity. Field
staff were required to perform varied tasks not directly related to extension
activities, and much reporting was required. Targets were often centrally
determined and bore little relation to local conditions and priorities.
Usually, these work programs were more relevant to a small number of farmers,
often the more advanced and larger ones and were usually related to input
supplies. The concentration by research workers and policy makers on a high
cost and sophisticated farm level technology was also an imporant factor in
limiting the effectiveness of extension workers. The goal of high production
and income levels was to be achieved by farmers instantly rather than
progressing, step by step, from present productivity levels and in accordance
with their farming situations and financial means. Thus, given the differing
levels of resource and knowledge constraints, the majority of farmers
obtained few relevant and practical messages from the extension service.
Agricultural research and extension services suffered from lack of transport,
housing and other facilities and inadequate emphasis was paid to applied and
adaptive research. Furthermore, overall supervision of field workers was
poor.
1.27    The T&V agricultural extension system was introduced between 1975 and
1978 into three districts of the Terai (Bara, Parsa and Rautahat) as a com-
ponent of the Birganj and Narayani Irrigation Projects (Crs. 379-NEP and
856-NEP); Rupandehi district in 1976 under the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater
Proiect: Stage I (Cr. 654-NEP); Sunsari and Morang districts in 1978 under
the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project (Cr. 812-NEP), and in 1981 to a limited
area (6,000 ha) in Kanchanpur district under the Mahakali Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1055-NEP). In Rapandehi district, a follow-on project, Bhairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Project: Stage II (Cr. 1316-NEP, effective 1983) provides for
full coverage of the district by improved extension.



-9-
1.28    The Director General of Agriculture is assisted by a Deputy Director
General (DDG) for Extension and Services. The extension wing is represented
at the region by a Regional Director of Agriculture who supervises district
level extension programs headed by an Agricultural Development
Officer/Assistant Agricultural Development Officer (ADO/AADO). Each ADO/AADO
is assisted by a number of Junior Technicians (JT) and Junior Technical
Assistants (JTA) each receiving two years and one year training respectively.
1.29    The projects provided for (a) Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistants
(PLAA), Junior Technical Assistants (JTA) and Junior Technicians (JT) at the
field level, (b) two Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) in each project area,
and (c) a systematic program of training for PLAA, JTA and JT combined with a
regular schedule of visits to farmers' fields.
1.30    Advice to farmers was provided at the village level by full time PLAA
coming from a farming background and who are residents of the panchayats in
which they work. Each PLAA was assigned to one panchayat (about 700 farm
families). PLAAs receive technical support from JTA and one JTA guides and
supervises some 3-5 PLAA. One JT supervises the work of three JTA. Supervi-
sion at the district level is provided by an Assistant Agricultural Develop-
ment Officer (ADDO) working under a Senior Agricultural Officer (SAO) at the
project level. SAO is assisted by 2-3 SMS to provide specialist training to
extension staff. The irrigation projects also financed the construction of
two training centers at Jhumka (Sunsari district) and Parwanipur (Bara dis-
trict). Responsibility for execution of the projects has been assigned to
d'ily constituted Irrigation Boards and actual implementation is the respon-
sibility of a Project Manager seconded from the Irrigation Department. In
each project, the Senior Agricultural Officer, seconded from DOA and under
the administrative control of the Project Manager, is responsible for
agricultural extension activities. Subordinate level extension staff, some
of whom are direct employees of the Irrigation Boards, are also responsible
to SAO. Technical support and supervision of extension staff, however, are
provided by DOA. These administrative arrangements, which provide for dual
control over agricultural staff, have not been satisfactory; in particular
DOA, who lacking administrative control over the agricultural staff in the
irrigation project areas, has basically ignored these staff who are therefore
cut off from assistance with problem solving and technology development.
There is now a genuine appreciation in both the Irrigation and Agricultural
Departments, of the need to place all extension staff directly under the
administrative and technical control of DOA. Such arrangements would be
incorporated in the proposed project.
1.31    Given the promising results of improved extension in irrigated areas
but in recognitior of the limited manpower resources and absorptive capacity
of DOA, a Bank financed Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 1100-NEP) became effective in 1981 and extended coverage to a further
eight districts of the Terai (Jhapa, Sarlahi, Mahottari, Dhanusha,
Kapilabastu, Nawalparasi, Chitwan and Banke). A Project Coordinator, working
under the Director General of Agriculture, is responsible for implementation.
The project provides for (a) improvement and decentralization of research



-10-
facilities in the Terai to provide applied and adaptive research based on
location specific needs, (b) an unified extension service under a single line
of command, (c) two SMS per district, (d) establishment of a dynamic link
between farmers, professional extension workers and researchers, (e) a sys-
tematic program for training of full time village level extension workers
combined with a regular schedule of visits to farmers' fields, (f) a regular
program for inservice training of extension workers, and (g) UNDP technical
assistance for overseas training of project staff and provision of consult-
ants. HMG's commitment to providing improved agricultural extension has been
evidenced by the action taken to fill almost all research and extension staff
positions, to provide incentives to staff, to reorganize the metrodology of
research so as to establish strong extension-research linkages and to
organize training programs required to meet the needs of reorganized exten-
sion.
1.32    Good progress has been made in Bara, Parsa, Rautahat, Sunsari and
Morang districts (irrigation project districts) over the period 1977-1982.
Over this period, in Bara, Parsa and Rautahat districts, fertilizer consump-
tion increased from 5,800 to 8,000 tons (55 percent) and in Sunsari and
Morang districts from 1,500 to 2,000 tons (33 percent). Production of
foodgrains increased in Bara, Parsa and Rautahat districts from 315,000 to
480,000 tons (52 percent) and in Sunsari and Morang districts from 280,000 to
320,000 tons (14 percent). Studies carried out in Bara and Parsa districts
have shown a clear indication of yield increases under both rainfed and
irrigated conditions. Details are given below:
Table 1.2: Yield Increases in Bara and Para Districts
Rainfed                        Irrigated
Pre Project 1/  Present 2/   Pre Project L/  Present 2/
…-----    tons per ha -
Early Paddy            1.9           2.5            2.2            3.3
Main Crop Paddy        2.1           2.4            2.2            3.3
Wheat                  1.1           1.6            2.4            3.2
1/ Baseline Data collected prior to project implementation.
2! Crop cutting trials in 1981182 and winter crop of 1982/83.
1.33    In the ongoing Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 1100-NEP), the extension mechanism of regular farm visits by PLAA and
quality training is being well established. Special courses for SMS in
training methodology have been regularly organized. Technology requiring
modest financial outlays (seed treatment, timely sowing, line sowing of maize
and wheat, interculture operations) are being readily adopted. Research
extension linkages in terms of preseason Regional Workshops to determine crop
recommendations and programs for field trials, bimonthly workshop for SMS at
research stations, and involvement of researchers in guiding SMS to lay out
on-farm field trials are improving. In the Pilot Production Program areas,
where special efforts have been made to coordinate the timely availability of



-11-
irrigation, credit, inputs and advice, annual production per hectare
increased under rainfed (2.86 to 4.15 tons/ha) and irrigated (4.5 to 6.5
tons/ha) conditions by adopting advice given by the reorganized extension
service. A recent monitoring study carried out by the Agricultural Project
Services Center (APROSC), Nepal in the eight project districts has shown
further encouraging results: (a) even distribution of contact farmers in each
category of farm size and resource base, (b) minimum variation in holding of
irrigated land between contact and non-contact farmers, (c) a high percentage
of contact and non-contact farmers are aware of the Panchayat Level Agricul-
tural Assistant (PLAA), (d) PLAA visits to contact farmers (74-96 percent)
and non-contact farmers (55-89 percent) are regular, Ce) a good number of
non-contact farmers are aware (34-77 percent) of contact farmers, (f) a good
percentage of farmers feel that visits of PLAA are useful, and (g) that there
is scope for improvement of the quality of PLAA visits.
Justification and Project Rationale
1.34    In the IDA assisted Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project (Cr. 812-NEP),
the project works have been revised and the closing date has been extended to
June 30, 1986. Funds provided for agricultural extension would, however, be
fully utilized in FY 1983/84. The Narayani Zone Irrigation Project
(Cr. 856-NEP) is expected to be completed by December 1984. Experience has
shown that these projects did not, however, provide for adequate levels of
extension staff especially of Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) and Agricul-
tural Development Officers (ADO); most PLAAs did not possess basic minimum
qualifications; definitive linkages were not established with research;
little provision was made for inservice training of staff, especially SMS;
and in view of the special administrative arrangements (para 1.30) the
Department of Agriculture failed to provide adequate technical supervision of
field staff. As a result, the extension methodology has developed slowly and
consequently the extension system is only partly operative and partially
effective. Nevertheless, given the encouraging results obtained so far (para
1.32 and 1.33) and in line with Nepal's objectives and strategy for increas-
ing agricultural production, HMG has decided to further extend improved
extension coverage to the remaining six districts of the Terai (Kanchanpur,
Kalali, Bardia, Dang, Sirha and Saptari), not previously covered by IDA
assisted projects, and to consolidate and strengthen agricultural extension
services in the five irrigation project districts of Bara, Parsa, Rautahat,
Sunsari and Morang so as to bring them in line with other districts. This
will provide coverage of 19 districts of the Terai under two projects
(Cr. 1100-NEP and the proposed project) and ensure coordinated management and
supervision of the extension service under the administrative responsibility
of DOA. As Rupandehi district is fully covered by improved extension under
the ongoing Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project: Stage II (Cr. 1316-NEP,
US$16.0 M, effective 1983) it is not included in the proposed project.
1.35    Since Nepal's agricultural production programs have found priority
in the Bank's past and present lending programs, it would be rational for
IDA to continue its assistance to improving agricultural extension and
research services throughout the Terai and to promote increased crop produc-
tion so vital to the country's continued progress.



-12-
1.35    Since Nepal's agricultural production programs have found priority
in the Bank's past and present lending programs, it would be rational for
IDA to continue its assistance to improving agricultural extension and
research services throughout the Terai and to promote increased crop produc-
tion so vital to the country's continued progress.
II. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
2.01    The project would reorganize and strengthen the agricultural exten-
sion service in 11 administrative districts of the Nepal Terai. The exten-
sion service will provide for the development of a well trained and techni-
cally competent organization with the means to reach the majority of farmers.
The organization will provide the institutional framework into which all
agricultural development programs, aimed at achieving early and sustained
improvement in production and incomes, would be incorporated. These improve-
ments in agricultural production would largely be brought about by the wide
adoption of low cost and labor intensive agricultural practices, proper
irrigation water management, and use of appropriate crop varieties and levels
of fertilizer. The design of the project, its timing scope, relative size of
project components and organization are based on the experience gdined in the
implementation of similar reorganization in the irrigation project districts
and in the ongoing Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 1100-NEP). The five year project would comprise:
(a) Reorganization and Strengthening of Agricultural Extension
Services. Provision of additional staff, offices, housing,
vehicles, equipment and staff training designed to consolidate
the reorganization;
(b)  Project Management.  Strengthening and improving project manage-
ment and supervision at Headquarter and at the Regional level;
and
(c) Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
The Project Districts
2.02    The project area would include six new districts (Kanchanpur and
Kailali in the Far-Western Region, Bardia and Dang in the Mid-Western Region
and Sirha and Saptari in the Eastern Region) which would receive improved
extension coverage for the first time and five districts of Bara, Parsa and
Rautahat (Central Region) and Sunsari and Morang (Eastern Region) previously
covered by IDA assisted irrigation projects.
2.03    The eleven districts cover an area of 19,000 sq.km. with a cultivated
area of 780,000 ha. Total population in the project districts is 3.46 M with
490,000 farm families living in 772 panchayats (averaging 635 farm families



-13-
and 1,000 ha cultivated area per panchayat). The average farm size is 1.6
ha. The same general agricultural production pattern as elsewhere in the
Terai is to be found in the project districts.
Project Phasing
2.04    During the first project year, the agricultural extension organiza-
tion would be strengthened in Bara, Parsa, Rautahat, Sunsari and Morang
districts; it would be established in Kanchanpur, Kailali and Bardia dis-
tricts in the second project year and in Dang, Sirha and Saptari districts
during the third year (see Map IBRD 17960R).
B. Detailed Features
2.05    The project would:
(a) Reorganize agricultural extension in six new districts (which
would receive improved extension for the first time) to provide
for additional technical staff, Panchayat Level Agricultural
Assistants (PLAA), and support staff so as to enable a single
line of command from the Director General to PLAA and the intro-
duction of regular and systematic village and farm visits to
provide farmers with advice on farming practices best suited
to their specific conditions;
(b) Strengthen the existing extension organization in the five
irrigation project districts to bring them in line with other
extension districts - provision of subject matter specialists,
JT, JTA and PLAA and facilities for fortnightly training;
Cc) Provide frequent training of all staff;
(d) Enlarge two extension training centers at Jhumka (Sunsari-Horang
Project) and Parwanipur (Narayani Project);
(e) Improve staffing of the offices of four Regional Directors of
Agriculture by providing one full time Senior Agricultural
Extension Officer for guidance to and supervision of extension
activities;
(f) Provide Production Officers in selected areas at subcenter level
to coordinate input, credit and irrigation water supply;
(g) Strengthen the Extension - Training and Planning Sections of the
Director General of Agriculture to provide technical support to
field operations and follow up on budget, procurement and staff-
ing:
(h) Construct minimum office accommodation and housing for staff;



-14-
(i) Furnish and equip field extension and training programs;
(j) Provide vehicles and travelling allowance to ensure greater
mobility of all staff;
(k) Provide incremental operating costs; and
(1) Undertake baseline studies in the six new districts and project
monitoring and evaluation in all project districts.
Agricultural Extension
2.06    The project would provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis,
with demonstrations and up-to-date advice on farming practices best suited
to their specific conditions and capable of having an immediate impact on
production and income. This would be achieved by programmed visits from
regularly trained field staff, supported by professional advice from within
the Department of Agriculture (DOA). At the village level, PLAA wouLd be
the full time extension worker and would have completed about eight years of
schooling and come from a farming background. PLAAs would be residents of
the panchayats in which they would work but would not be regarded as per-
manent and pensionable government employees. In the six new project dis-
tricts (Kanchanpur, Kailali, Bardia, Dang, Sirha and Saptari), PLAAs would be
mainly selected from among existing part time Agricultural Assistants (AM)
who have the requisite background and qualification. In the ongoing project
(para 1.31) procedures have been established for the selection of PLAAs and
this would be continued. The existing procedures comprise: notification of
vacancies at the Panchayat level indicating minimum qualification and
experience requirements; scrutiny of applications; and an interview by a
District Committee chaired by the District Agricultural Development officer
with officials and concerned non officials as members. Candidates selected
are from the Panchayat in which they would work and would successfully com-
plete a pre-service training course (30 days) before being posted as PLAAs.
In five remaining districts, the existing PLAAs and who are presently
employed by Irrigation Boards would be screened and only those with requisite
qualification and a good record of field work would be selected for employ-
ment by DOA. At the moment, part time AA and full time PLAA are paid a fixed
remuneration of Rs. 50 and Rs. 150 per month respectively. The remuneration
of PLAA (Rs. 150 per month) was fixed in 1975 when improved extension was
first introduced. Since that time the minimum daily wage for laborers has
been increased to Rs. 10 per day. It is now necessary for PLAA remuneration
to be brought into line with the minimum wage rate. At the start of nego-
tiations, HMG confirmed that in order to provide an additional incentive to
PLAAs, their remuneration would be increased from Rs. 150 to Rs. 300 per
month effective July 16, 1985 and necessary provisions would be made in their
FY 1985/86 budget which starts on July 16, 1985. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that (a) PLAAs of requisite qualification and experience
would be recruited; and (b) PLAAs would be residents of the Panchayats in
which they would work.



-15-
2.07    In the project districts, there are 772 Panchayats and about 490,000
farm families. The number of farm families per Panchayat ranges between
524-1150 (averaging 635 per Panchayat). Each Panchayat is divided into nine
wards. Initially, one PLAA would be posted to each Panchayat, but those
Panchayats where populacion is widespread or in irrigated areas, more than
one PLAA might be required. Provision has been made for about 80 additional
PLAAs to meet the needs of more intensive coverage. Overall requirement of
additional staff wouLd be reviewed during project implementation. An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that HMC and IDA would review by
March 31, 1987, the adequacy of staff, especially of PLAA. Thereafter, HMG
would ensure that adequate numbers are employed for satisfactory implementa-
tion of the project.
2.08    The Extension MethodoLogy.  Under the proposed agricultural extension
system, an intensive scheduled program of farm visits would be introduced.
Each ward would be visited by a PLAA, on a fixed day of the week, once every
two weeks. Thus, a PLAA wouLd cover five wards in one week and four wards in
the next week. In most panchayats, where additional PLAAs are not provided,
the number of farm families covered by one PLAA would not exceed 700. During
daily visits, PLAA would spend the full day in the scheduled ward, would
visit fields during morning hours, and in the afternoon, either hold meetings
in the village at a pre-determir ' time or hold discussions with farmers or
meet farmers in their homes. One of the three remaining working days each
fortnight would be devoted to in-service training, where PLAA would discuss
and Learn recommended practices to be given to farmers during the following
fortnight and also bring farmer's problems to the attention of trainers.
Thus, every two weeks the PLAA would spend nine days in visiting each of his
nine wards and one day in training. During the two remaining days, PLAA
would visit field trials, arrange special extension activities, make up
visits missed because of illness or holidays, and do occasional but limited
office work. All PLAAs would maintain a chart showing days for visiting each
ward as well as time and place of group meetings.
2.09    It would not be possible for the PLAA to reach all farmers during
field visits. Thus, under the guidance of supervisors and in consultation
with the Panchayat Council and farmers themselves, PLAA would select contact
farmers (7-8) from each ward. Contact farmers would be from all levels of
village society, and would be selected for their potential influence and
willingness to collaborate with the extension service in following recommen-
dations. Changes in contact farmers would be made, especially between
seasons, if they are shown to be ineffective or should they discontinue this
service. PLAAs, during their field visits, would make special efforts to
reach at least all contact farmers' fields, and who, in turn, would share the
responsiblity of organizing and attending afternoon meeting or any other
village group activity. PLAA would also invite neighboring farmers while
meeting contact farmers in their fields, and visit other farmers' fields
while moving from one contact farmer to another. In due course of time, most
farmers in a ward would be aware of the visit day of PLAA.



-16-
2.10    Within their area of operation, PLAA would concentrate on important
crops focussing on practices which bring the best economic results. Ini-
tially, concentration would be on improving agricultural practices and would
include better land and seed bed preparation, improved nursery maintenance,
use of good seed, seed treatment, timely operation (such as right time of
sowing), proper spacing, weeding, etc., and use of appropriate quantities of
fertilizer. In adopting better practices farmers face few risks, but will be
required to work harder. Since most small farmers have surplus labor but
little cash, this fits their financial status well.
2.11    Technical Support and Field Organization.  PLAA would receive techni-
cal support from Junior Technical Assistants (JTA) and one JTA would guide
and supervise the work of 3-5 PLAAs working in three Panchayats. One Junior
Technician (JT) would guide and supervise the work of three JTAs. To
strengthen technical back up, the project would provide two Suoject Matter
Specialists (SMSs) in each district, one each in Agronomy and Plant Protec-
tion.
2.12    Each JTA would spend at least nine days in the fortnight visiting
PLAA in the field. He would also help PLAAs in carrying out demonstrations
and simple on-farm trials. He would attend meetings organized by PLAA and
meet all of his PLAAs on a fixed day of the fortnight.  This close ongoing
relationship between PLAA and JTA would relieve the former of the need for
formal reporting. PLAA and JTA would, however, maintain a daily diary of
activities. JT would supervise the work of PLAAs and JTAs and ensure effec-
tiveness of extension operations. He would spend at least four days in the
week meeting his PLAA and JTA in the field. During his visits, he would be
able to find out whether visits are being made as planned, inquire from
farmers about visit days in their villages, messages learned, etc.
Experience of work in the ongoing project districts has shown that once
farmers become aware of visit schedules, they themselves become effective
monitors by complaining if visits are not made regularly and in a satisfac-
tory manner.
2.13   To ensure a continuous flow of cimely, locally proven and adapted farm
recommendations, and adequate back-stopping and training of PLAA, JTA and JT,
it would be necessary to strengthen the technical support staff at district
level. Two Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) would be provided in each dis-
trict (one each for Agronomy and Crop Protection). SMS would spend one-third
of their time in training groups of PLAA, JTA and JT, one-third of their time
in field visits providing technical support and guidance to PLAA and JTA and
checking on reasons for adoption or non adoption of recommended practices,
and one-third of their time in building their own stock of knowledge through
a regular dialogue with research workers, carrying out simple field trials in
farmers' fields, and attending short training courses.
2.14    During the last two years, DOA has implemented a PiLot Production
Program in irrigated areas of Bara, Parsa, Rautahat, Chitwan, Dhanusha and
Sarlahi districts under which compact blocks of 150-500 ha have been selected
for intensive development using technology developed by the Cropping System
Program (para 1.09). A Production Officer (PO) is in charge of each 1,000 ha



-17-
area (2-6 blocks) and is responsible for coordinating timely supply of seed,
fertilizer, credit and irrigation. PO prepares an action plan for each
production block in consultation with participating farmers and local agen-
cies responsible for inputs, credit and supply of irrigation water. PO helps
in the preparation of an individual farm plan for each farmer. The program
has shown good results in terms of timely mobilization of inputs, credit and
irrigation, adoption of improved technology and consequent increase of annual
yields. A similar appr qch is being tried for rainfed lowland areas for
which appropriate technology has been developed (para 1.09). To further
intensify this program, the project would provide for 40 additional PO who
would be located at selected subcenters/service centers and working under the
district Agricultural Development Officer would organize production programs,
attend bimonthly SMS workshops, and help in organizing and conducting fort-
nightLy training sessions.
2.15    At the district level, there would be an Agricultural Development
Officer (ADO) to supervise all extension activities. Provision has also been
made for additional support staff such as an accountant and an additional
clerk to assist ADO. ADO would be responsible for all extension activities
in his district and make frequent visits to the field to guide extension
staff, check the adoption rates of recommended practices by discussion with
farmers and by checking the PLAA/JTA diaries. To free ADO from other routine
activities and to allow frequent field visits so necessary to review exten-
sion operations, the existing AADO would take over responsibility for report-
ing and coordinating input supply arrangements.
2.16   At the Regional level, the Regional Director of Agriculture would be
assisted by a Senior Agr:^ultural Extension Officer (SAEO) to provide inten-
sive day-to-day support and supervision of extension activities in the Terai.
SAEO for Eastern Region would be located at Biratnagar, for Central Region at
Birganj, for Western Region at Bhairawa and for Mid-Western Region at Nepal-
ganj. The Far-Western Region has recently been established and until the
full organization is in position, SAEO for Mid-Western Region would also look
after extension activities in the Far-Western Region. SAEOs would have a
separate office under the project and would be assisted by minimum support
staff. Staffing details are at Annex 1, Table 4. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that SAEOs for Eastern, Central and Western Regions would be
appointed and be in positon by December 31, 1985 and one SAEO to look after
Mid- and Far-Western Regions by August 31, 1986.
2.17    The Project Coordinator appointed under the ongoing Agricultural
Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP) would coordinate all extension
activities in the 20 Terai districts.  At the start of negotiations, HMC
explained that the headquarters of the Project Coordinator should remain in
Kathmandu instead of moving to the Terai as originally proposed inasmuch as
his functions and responsibilities would be exercised best from Kathmandu
rather than from a field Location. The Association accepted this explana-
tion.
2.18    At DOA headquarters, in the office of the Director General of
Agriculture, the project would strengthen the existing Extension-Training



-18-
and Planning sections. Provision has been made for five SMSs in the Exten-
sion-Training section who would be responsible for special crop oriented
programs (2) and training (3) and for improving the technical quality of the
extension service in their areas of specialization and also help in improving
the existing linkages between extension SMS and research work being done at
Khumaltar in Kathmandu.  The Planning section of DOA would be strengthened to
follow up on budget, procurement, staffing and other policy matters needing
guidance and decision by DOA and XOA headquarters.  Details are at Annex 1,
Table 4.
2.19    Staffing and Incentives.  Much of the extension staff required under
the project is presently working in DOA or for Irrigation Boards. Details
are summarized below:
Table 2.1: Incremental Extension Staff Requirements
Total Nos.        Total Available       Additional
Post               Required     DOA  Irri. 3oard  Total  Needed
PLAA                  850        -         -          -       850
JTA                   277        175       22        197       80
JT                     99         84        5         89        10
Production Oficer      52          9       -           9       43
SMS                    27        -         -          -        27
AADO                   11         11       -          11       -
ADO                    11          5       -           5         6
SAEO                    4        -         -          -         4
2.20    In the ongoing project (Cr. 1100-NEP), most of the staff positions
including all SMS (excluding ROO) have been filled. The quality of SMS is
being improved through inservice training :,nd special short courses.
Availability of additional SMS and other staff for the project would, there-
fore, not be a constraint. Adequate numbers of agricultural graduates are
trained at the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences, Rampur and
postgraduate fellowships are available to DOA staff through programs spon-
sored by the Colombo Plan and USAID.
2.21    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) all incremental
staff would be appointed according to the agreed schedule at Annex 1, Table
9, (b) upon completion of the project, HMG would maintain the incremental
staff so as to ensure continued achievement of the objectives of the project,
(c) extension staff would work exclusively on agricultural extension and they
would not be given any other responsibility, and (d) all speciaL production
programs planned for project districts and throughout the Terai would be
implemented utilizing the extension methodology and organization.



-19-
2.22    Extension work in project districts would be carried out under dif-
ficult conditions. Experience in similar projects elsewhere and in ongoing
project areas has shown that staff have to work harder and live in remote
areas. Provision of housing, motorcycles and bicycles (paras 2.28 and 2.29),
and bicycle allowance (para 2.29) would provide added incentive to staff to
work more effectively. An understanding was reached at negotiations that HMG
is reviewing the issue of monthly project allowance for extension workers as
an added incentive and that a decision would be taken in due course.
2.23    Training.  The project would strengthen training programs for exten-
sion and research workers and administrative staff. The keynote would be the
continuous fortnightly training of PLAAs, JTAs and JTs by SMS who are conver-
sant with the latest research results, active in the identification of local
problems, and who participate in local verification trials. The entire
training effort would be focussed on making these fortnightly sessions as
effective as possible. Training would be practical and concentrate on the
few specific recommendations relevant to farming operations in the coming
fortnight. Ample time would be provided for PLAAs and JTAs to study the
recommendations and practice how they would convince farmers to adopt them.
They would also have an opportunity to raise and discuss problems encountered
in the past two weeks. On alternate weeks PLAAs would meet with JTAs to
review progress. Other in-service training courses for PLAAs, JTAs and JTs
would include a pre-season workshop/training session for each major season
and one or two special short courses per year on a specific technical topic.
In each project district, a number of small training subcenters would be
established for fortnightly training of extension staff and which would not
exceed six in any one district. Overall, 56 such training subcenters would
be required. In addition, the facilities available at the Pilot Farm in the
Mahakali Irrigation Project (Kanchanpur district) would be used for fort-
nightly training.
2.24    All PLAA would receive an intensive pre-service training course (35
days).  Higher level staff would require a range of introductory training
programs as well. Pre-season training of PLAAs would be a regular occur-
rence, with similar sessions held for JTAs and JTs. Also before each season
there would be a workshop at the Regional Research Station attended by ADOs,
SMSs, Research Outreach Officer (ROO) and research workers. During the
workshop, research workers and extension staff would review the previous
season's research results, specify recommendations and plan the coming
season's research and field trial programs (paras 4.04-4.10).
2.25    Improving the knowledge of SMS is crucial to the success of the
project. For this, there would be a training session held once i.- two months
at the Regional Research Station of each region. The session would be
attended by all SMS in the region, ADO, ROO and other research staff. The
main objective would be to review results achieved, modify recommendations as
necessary to suit prevailing field conditions, review findings and progress
of field trials and develop suggestions for future research topics and field
trials. The project also provides for special short courses for all staff,
especially SMS, to build up their professional competence (para 4.11).
Details are given in Annex 2.



-20-
2.26    Training facilities are available at the four Regional Training
Centers (RTC): Jhumka (Eastern Region), Janakpur (Central Region), Bhairawa
(Western Region) and Nepalganj (Mid-Western Region), and at the new training
center at Parwanipur (Bara district). RTC at Janakpur is functioning, RTC
buildings at Nepalganj and Jhumka are under construction and the Bhairawa
RTC will be constructed under the ongoing Agricultural Extension and Research
Project. The Parwanipur Training Center has been completed recently.
However, various training prngrams are already being conducted at these
locations also making use of the facilities available at Regional Research
Stations.
2.27    The project would provide funds for construction, equipping and
furnishing of 40 small training subcenter buildings (16 buildings already
exist) each with a training hall, store and residence for JT. Each building
would have an area of 150 sq.m costing NRs. 450,000. Provisioni would also be
made for expanding the facilities at Jhumka and Parwanipur training centers,
developed under the Bank assisted irrigation projects, by providing incremen-
tal staff and supplementing the equipment and furniture available. Details
are given in Annex 1, Tables 1 to 4.
2.28    Housing and Offices.  Under the reorganized extension service, exten-
sion staff would be required to make regular and frequent visits to farmers.
Consequently, it is desirable for them to live in or near their areas of
work. To provide housing for all staff would be beyond the implementation
capacity of DOA and the financial resources of HMG, consequently, modest
provision has been made for housing (NRs. 26.22 M) for 55 JTAs, 15 JTs, 8
AADOs, 6 ADOs, 22 SMSs, 4 SAEOs, and 37 support staff. Provision has also
been made for construction of offices for ADO(2) and SAEO(4) and renovation
of the existing building at Parwanipur Training Center. Most civil works
would be in village areas. As in case of the ongoing project, construction
of JTA and officer staff quarters, subcenter buildings, and offices would be
on Panchayat owned land and not involve acquisition. Location of sites has
been tentatively decided. The project would provide funds for hiring a
consultant architect to prepare detailed estimates for buildings located in
the interior areas. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that HMC
would (a) furnish to IDA by June 30, 1986, information on location of sites
for all civil works to be financed under the project, and (b) appoint the
consulting architect by December 31, 1985. Details are at Annex 1, Table 2.
2.29    Transport.  The efficient operation of an extension service depends
on the degree of contact between all levels of the extension hierarchy and
with farmers. Mobility is essential to ensure this and thus funds would be
made available for loans to JTAs for purchase of bicycles. The project would
also provide a monthly allowance (Rs. 30) to JTA to ensure satisfactory
maintenance of bicycles. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
terms and conditions of bicycles loans and the amount of the maintenance
allowance would be sufficient to ensure their purchase and use. Motorcycles
would be provided to JTs(83), SMSs(22), Production Officerst27) Project
Coordinator(l), Headquarter Support Unit(4) and for use at two training
centers(4) and 14 jeeps (4-wheel drive) would be provided to districts which



-21-
do not already have a vehicle(8), SAOs(4), Jhunka RTC(1) and the Project
Coordinator(l)_ Two minibuses would be purchased for use at the Jhumka and
Parwanipur training centers. Details are given in Annex 1, Table 3.
2.30    Equipment and Furniture.  The project would provide office equipment
and furniture, and simple audio visual equipment to support training sessions
and enhance field operations. Emphasis wouLd be on low cost aids such as
charts, flipcharts and flannelgraphs which extnusion staff can design them-
selves and modify to suit local conditions. Otfice, hostel and audio visual
equipment would be added at the training centers at Jhumka and Parwanipur.
Details are given at Annex 1, Table 3.
Strengthening of Engineering Unit
2.31    The Engineering Unit of DOA has been strengthened under the ongoing
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP). This unit h-s
performed satisfactorily in designing, preparation of estimates, tendering
and supervision of construction of civil works at reseazch stations and would
be further strengthened under the project by adding one Executive Engineer,
four Assistant Engineers, two draftsmen and 14 overseers to handle the new
construction program and provide better supervision of ongoing works.
Details are given in Annex 1, Tables 2 to 4.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.32    Under the ongoing Agricultural Extension and Research Project,
monitoring and evaluation of project activities have been initiated in order
to generate data with which to measure output, effect and impact of project
actions, thus providing management guidance to those responsible for project
implementation. Monitoring by continuous gathering of information on project
inputs and activities (timely provision of staff, vehicles, equipment and
buildings) is being done; a benchmark study has been completed in eight
districts (establishing data on the agricultural conditions of farmers,
agricultural practices used, current use of inputs and credit and crop
yields). In addition, an indepth monitoring survey has been carried oat to
evaluate the performance of PLAA and JTA. Under the project, further
monitoring/evaluation surveys would be carried out on a regular basis and
covering quality of training programs, development of appropriate recommenda-
tions, regularity and quality of visits, adoption of recommendations,
increased production and consequent increase in farm incomes, and effective-
ness of Production Officers.
2.33   Monitoring and evaluation in project districts would be the respon-
sibility of the Evaluation and Program Analysis Division of MOA. Funds would
be provided for (a) benchmark studies in six new project districts, and (b)
monitoring surveys in each cropping season to generate information that would
provide project management with data on quality of training, development of
appropriate recommendations, regularity and quality of visits, adoption rates
of recommendations, and effectiveness of Production Officers, and (c)
monitoring/evaluation surveys to generate additional inforkation and to
provide data on crop yields, use of key inputs, and increased production.



-22-
Benchmark studies would be simple in content and involve data concerning
cropping patterns, yield data, availability of inputs, marketing facilities,
present status of extension support and its impact, and farmers technological
constraints. This information would set the scene for the proposed extension
and research support and also provide data for project evaluation
studies/surveys. MOA woull commission such studies/surveys by organizations
existing in Nepal. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that HMGN
would: (a) complete benchmark studies in six new project districts by
(Kanchanpur, Kailall, Bardia, Dane and Saptari) by July 31, 1987, (b) monitor
project activities and progress on a semi-annual basis, and (c) carry out
evaluation surveys in a form acceptable to IDA and forward results to IDA
twice a year. Details are given in Annex 1, Table 7.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01    Total project costs over the five-year deveLopment period (1985-90)
are estimated at NRs. 157.9 M (US$8.5 M) of which the foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at US$ 3.2 M (about 38 percent of total project cost).
Duties and taxes included in total costs are estimated at US$56,600 equiv-
alent. A detailed breakdown of project costs is presented in Annex 1, Tables
1 to 6. The estimated costs by component are summarized below:
Table 3.1: Summary of Costs by Component 1/
Z Total
---NRs. Million---  --US$ Million----  Z Foreign  Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange   Costs
Civil Works                   24.1    23.9   48.0   1.3    1.3    2.6        50.0      40.0
Vehicles and Equipment         3.7    14.5   18.2   0.2    0.8    1.0        80.0      15.0
InEremental Staff             28.8      -     28.8   1.6    -        1.6      -        24.0
Incremental Operating Costs   8.5       6.4   14.8   0.5    0.3    0.8       43.0      12.0
Training Costs                 7.4      -      7.4   0.4    -        0.4      -         6.0
Monitoring and Evaluation      2.5      -      2.5   0.1    -        0.1       -        2.0
Total BASELINE COSTS          74.9    44.8  119.7   4.0    2.4    6.5        37.0    100.0
Physical Contingencies       6.5      6.4   12.9   0.4    0.3    0.7       50.0      11.0
Price Contingencies         16.6      8.6   25.3   0.9    0.5    1.4       34.0      21.0
Total PROJECT COSTS           98.0    59.8  157.9   5.3    3.2    8.5        38.0    132.0
1/ Discrepancies due to rounding.
3.02    Basis of Cost Estimates.  Base costs refer to prices prevailing in
February 1985, and were calculated on the following basis:



-23-
(a) Construction costs - on facilities of similar nature, currently
bid or completed for the ongoing project Cr. 1100-NEP). The
average cost per sq.meter was estimated at NRs. 3,000;
(b) Equipment and furniture - on purchases made and tenders com-
pleted for the ongoing project;
(c) Salaries and operating costs - on detailed breakdown of current
rates;
(d) Training costs - on actual requirements.
3.03    Contingency Allowances.  Estimated project costs include physical
contingencies estimated at 15 percent: for civil works, vehicles, equipment,
furniture, training and monitoring and evaluation and 10 percent for other
expenditure. Price contingencies amounting to about 21 percent of baseline
costs have been applied in accordance with current Bank estimates of expected
inflation rates which are given below:
Table 3.2: Price Escalation Estimates (Z per year)
1985186    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90
Local (Nepal)       6.3        7.8         8.0         8.0        8.0
Foreign             6.3        7.8         8.0         8.0        8.0
B. Proposed Financing
3.04    Financing of total project costs of NRs. 157.90 H (US$ 8.5 M) includ-
ing contingencies, but net of taxes and duties, would be provided as follows:
Table 3.3: Proposed Financing
Foreign Exchange    Local Currency        Total
US$ M     z          US$ M   Z        US$ M    Z
IDA                3.2      100         4.0     75        7.2    85
HMGN                -        -          1.3     25        1.3    15
3.2      100         5.3    100        8.5   100
The proposed IDA credit of US$ 7.2 M would be to HMG on standard terms and
conditions and would finance about 85 percent of project costs including all
foreign exchange costs.  ILA funds would be channeled through the Ministry
of Finance to MOA as annual budget subventions.  During negotiations an
understanding was reached that HEG would (a) make adequate budget provision
each year for implementation of the project, and (b) arrange for timely
release of funds each year to project districts and units.



-24-
C. Procurement
3.05    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method          Total
ICB     LCB     Other    NA      Cost
Civil Works                   -      3.60      -       -        3.60
(3.20)                    (3.20)
Vehicles, Equipment          0.96    0.24      -       -        1.20
and Furniture            (0.96)  (0.18)    -        -       (1.14)
Incremental Staff and         -       -        -      3.00      3.00
Operating Costs                                   (2.06)   (2.06)
Training                      -       -        -      0.60      0.60
(0.60)   (0.60)
Monitoring and Evaluation    -        -        -      0.20      0.20
(0.20)   (0.20)
Total                     0.96    3.84      -      3.80      8.50
(0.96)  (3.38)           (2.86)   (7.20)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed bv the Credit.
3.06    Civil Works.  All civil works (US$3.6 M) would be unsuitable for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) because they would be individually
small and widely distributed throughout the project area. Accordingly,
construction of buildings would be awarded to local contractors following
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures and supervised by the Agricultural
Engineering Division of DOA and in accordance with HMG procedures, which were
found at appraisal to be satisfactory to IDA and which provide for foreign
bidders to participate.
3.07    Vehicles and Equipment.  Motor vehicles, motorcycles, cycles and
equipment (US$0.96 M) would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and
procured by ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or
the import duty, whichever is the lower. Where orders are valued at less
than US$30,000 and totalling no more than US$200,000, items would be procured
under LCB procedures and which were found at appraisal to be satisfactory to
IDA. Items such as furniture, books, training material, and office require-
ments (US$ 0.24 H) would be purchased under established local bidding proce-
dures.
3.08    Contract Review.  Bidding documents for civil works contracts costing
US$100,000 or more and for vehicles, equipment and other goods and services
costing US$50,000 or more would be submitted to IDA for review prior to



-25-
invitation to bid. This would result in about 15% of contracts covering
about 40 percent of the value of all contracts being subject to prior review.
3.09    The balance of project costs (US$ 3.7 M) would be staff salaries and
related expenditures (US$ 2.9 M), training (US$ 0.6 M), and monitoring and
evaluation (US$ 0.2 M).
3.10    Assurances were obtained at negotiations that procurement procedures
set out above would be followed.
D. Disbursements, Accounts, and Audit
Disbursements
3.11    Disburbursement under the credit would be completed by December 31,
1991, over a period of 5 1/2 years, which is 2 1/2 years shorter than the
average disbursement profile for IDA assisted agricultural projects Bankwide.
An estimated disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 3, Table 2. This
reduction is justified as EMG has agreed to open a Special Account (para
3.09), project authorities have already gained experience in ICB and LCB
procedures, all civil works designs exist, and delays in payments of project
expenditures due to slow release of government funds would be minimized as
the accounting arrangements and expenditure reporting system are being
presently streamlined (para 3.16). Disbursements from the proceeds of the
credit would finance various categories in the following manner:
(a) 81 percent of expenditures for civil works (US$ 2.90 million);
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported
vehicles and equipment, and 100 percent of local expenditures
(ex-factory), and 75 percent for other goods (books, training
material, office equipment, and furniture) procured locally (US$
1.14 million);
(c) 48 percent of total expenditure on total staff salaries and
allowances equal to 75 percent of incremental staff salaries and
allowances disbursed at a declining scale of 100 percent expen-
ditures on total salaries and allowances in FY86, 70 percent in
FY87, 50 percent in FY88, 30 percent in FY89 and 20 percent in
FY89 (US$ 1.43 million);
(d) 45 percent of expenditures for project operating costs (US$ 0.50
million);
(e) 100 percent of expenditure on training and monitoring and
evaluation (US$ 0.8 million); and
(f) Unallocated (US$ 430,000).



-26-
3.12    Disbursements against items (c), (d) and (e) would be made against
HMG statements of expenditures, the documentation for which would not be
submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by HMG. These documents
would be available for inspection by IDA during the course of project review
missions. Disbursements against items (a), (b) and (f) would be fully docu-
mented. Assurances covering the foregoing were obtained during negotiations.
Special Account
3.13    In order to facilitate prefinancing of project expenditures under
categories (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) (para 3.11), a Special Account (SA)
would be opened by HMG in the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). An initial deposit of
US$300,000 (SDR 310,000) would be made in SA by IDA upon receipt of a direct
payment application from HMG supported by appropriate evidence that such an
account (SA) has been opened. Payments out of the special account would be
made according to procedures agreed at negotiations. HMG would furnish to
IDA requests for replenishment of SA at specified intervals. On the basis
of such requests, IDA would withdraw from the Credit and deposit in SA such
amounts as required to replenish SA but not exceeding the amount of payments
made for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit would be withdrawn by IDA
from the Credit under the respective categories (para 3.11), and in respec-
tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence sup-
porting the request for such a deposit. HMG would furnish to IDA such
evidence showing that payment was made for eligible expenditures. Recovery
of the initial deposit by IDA would commence when the unwithdrawn amounts in
the Credit had been reduced to double the initial deposit to the account.
Recovery would be by reimbursing only 50% of the amounts claimed during the
recovery period, until the advance has been fully recovered. HMG would
refund to IDA any amount outstanding in SA and which would not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures. During negotiations 1MG
and IDA reached a decision on establishing a Special Account and operating
procedures.
Accounts and Audit
3.14    The project would be subject to normal government financial control
and audit procedures which are satisfactory. Accounts staff would be
strengthened at district, project headquarters and DOA headquarters for
proper maintenance of accounts and prompt reporting of expenditures.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that HMG would:
(a) record all project expenditure under a separate head of account
in accordance with sound accounting practices;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available but not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, certified
copies of financial statements for the year;
(c) cause the records and accounts to be audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; and



-27-
(d) provide a statement by such auditors that funds disbursed
against statements of expenditure had been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
3.15   In order to ensure that audit covenants in IDA assisted projects are
complied with on time, IDA has been assisting the Financial Comptroller
General, HMG in a review of present accounting and audit procedures. As a
result, a Project Accounting Manual has been prepared to facilitate prepara-
tion of a Quarterly Commitment Statements giving details of (a) funds
released during the quarter, (b) expenditure incurred, and (c) reimbursement
claimed from IDA.  This system would help the timely re'_ase of funds to
project entities, as production of Quarterly Commitment Statements are condi-
tional on further release of funds. Furthermore, such procedures would
hasten reimbursement from IDA on a continuous basis, and preparation of an
annual consolidated financial statement to enable the Auditor General to
complete the audit of project accounts. The methodology contained in the
Project Accounting Manual has recently been introduced in two ongoing IDA
assisted projects, the Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 1100-NEP) and Hill Food Production Project (Cr. 1101-NEP), with satis-
factory results.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANANCEMENT
Project Implementation
4.01    Overall responsibility for project implementation would be with the
Director General of Agriculture assisted at headquarters by two Deputy Direc-
tors General, one each for Crop Development and Extension and Services.
Administrative control of agricultural extension staff working in the dis-
tricts of Morang, Sunsari, Rautahat, Parsa, and Bara; in Rupandehi district
except the command area (about 10,000 ha) of the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater
Project Stage II; and in the 6,000 ha area of Mahakali Irrigation Project in
Kanchanpur district would be transferred from the respective Irrigation
Boards to the Department of Agriculture. An exception has been made in
respect of the command area (about 10,000 ha) of the Bhairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Project because agricultural staff in this area (who are normally
supposed to perform only extension related activities) have assumed respon-
sibility for input supply and distribution, and on-farm management of
tubewell water in addition to their crop production advisory work and that
these arrangements shouLd not be disturbed until the project is fully opera-
tional, in three or four years time. MOA, and the Director General of
Irrigation, are agreeable to the transfer of administrative control. At the
start of negotiations, HMG confirmed that necessary action had been taken to
(a) transfer administrative control over agricultural staff working in
irrigation project districts, except the command area (about 10,000 ha) of
the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project: Stage II, to DOA, and (b) complete
other formalities in respect of the transfer of budgetary control, transfer
of assets to DOA, and arrangements for absorption into DOA staff directly
appointed by the Irrigation Boards.



-28-
4.02    At the Regional level, the Regional Director of Agriculture would
continue to be responsible for the day-to-day operation of all district
extension activities falling under his jurisdiction. Each Regional Director
(Eastern, Central, Western and Mid-Western Regions) would be assisted by a
SAEO who would specifically supervise and support extension activities. SAEO
of Mid-Western Region would also be responsible for extension activities in
the Far-Western Region (para 2.16). The existing Project Coordinator, under
the Director General of Agriculture, would coordinate the implementation of
project supported extension activities. Working through the Regional Direc-
tors of Agriculture and SAEO, he would provide the necessary overall guidance
to field operations.
National Level Coordination
4.03    Coordination at the national level between extension, research and
allied support agencies would be ensured through the existing Coordination
and Progress Review Committee chaired by the Secretary MOA. The Committee,
which meets monthly, consists of the Directors General of Agriculture and
Livestock Development, the Deputy Directors General, and representatives of
credit, input, and marketing organizations. The Committee would also invite
representatives from the Ministry of Finance and National Planning Commission
to participate in the meetings.
Linkages Between Extension and Research
4.04    As neither research nor extension can function efficiently without
close cooperation, it would be necessary to formalize the responsibilities
of both agencies. The research wing of DOA would assume full responsibility
for the development of suitable new technology, while the extension service
wouLd have responsibility for the transfer of technology to farmers, includ-
ing widespread testing of research recommendations, with the help of
research, on farmers' fields. The research organization would continue to
identify and select improved varieties of crops, and also identify economi-
cally appropriate practices directed to substantially increasing crop produc-
tion and, at the same time, lowering farmers' risk. Selected varieties and
production practices, would then be tested at regional research stations,
substations, the Pilot Farm established in the Mahakali Irrigation Project
area, and on farmers' fields. The project would provide funds for field
testing of research results and for adaptive trials on farmers' fields.
Research staff would work closely with extension staff and accompany them
during field visits to identify and diagonize field problems, especially SMS,
as much of the work at regional stations would be in response to the needs of
local extension staff and farmers. The extension staff would work with
research workers in carrying out a program of field trials and analyzing and
interpreting the results. Under the IDA assisted Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP) and the Cash Crop Development Project
(Cr. 1339-NEP), research facilities in the Terai have been strengthened
(paras 1.10 and 1.11) to meet the above objectives.



-29-
4.05    Strengthening of arrangements for close coordination between research
and extension would also be promoted through Central and District level
committees, and regional workshops (paras 4.06 to 4.09).
4.06    Central Technical Committee (CTC).  This committee would comprise
the Director General of Agriculture, Deputy Directors General of Research
and Extension, Project Coordinator, Regional Research Coordinators and senior
research staff. The DDG (Research) would be the secretary. CTC would meet
twice a year and provide a formal mechanism for review of research and field
trials, and for review of future research programs and extension recommenda-
tions made by District Technical Committees and at RegionaL Workshops.
4.07    District Technical Committee (DTC).  Each Committee would be chaired
by the Agricultural Development Officer of the district and comprise district
field staff, SMS, Research Outreach Officer, research workers, irrigation
staff and farmers' representatives. Local officers of Irrigation
Boards/Department would participate in the meeting to decide on the action
plan for intensive work in irrigated areas. DTC would meet at lease twice a
year to review adoption rates in the previous season and suggest recommenda-
tions for agricultural practices, including the identification of research
priorities and adaptive trial needs, for discussion at the Regional
Workshops.
4.08    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that DTC would be estab-
lished in the six irrigation project districts and six new districts by
December 31, 1985, and meet thereafter at least twice every year.
4.09    Regional Workshops.  Twice a year, regional workshops would be
organized at each Regional Research Station by the Regional Research Coor-
dinator, well in advance of the summer and winter crop seasons. The
workshops would include research workers, Regional Director of Agriculture,
and extension staff, and would discuss the implications of recommendations
of DTC on extension activities including adoption rates of recommendations
and reasons for non adoption, partial adoption and full adoption, adaptive
trials, and research priorities, and finalize these after considering
research data and field experience.
4.10    The evolution of extension recommendations would be as under:
District Technical Committee   Reviews adoption rates of previous
ADOiSMS/ROO/Farmers/Research/  season, adaptive research, and trials
Irrigation                      to propose recommendations and sug-
gests field trial program, and action
plan for work in irrigated areas.
Regional Workshop               Assembles proposed recommendations
Research and Extension          from DTC.  Frames recommendations
Staff of Region                 after consideration of research
data, economic constraints, results
of field trials, and an analysis of
adoption rates.



-30-
Central Technical Committee    Reviews proposed recommendations
DC/DDG/RRCISenior Research      developed by regional workshops.
Staff                           Approves or suggests modifications
before returning to DTC/RRS for
implementation.
District Technical Committee   Considers suggestions of CTC and
ADO/SMS/ROO/FarmersJResearch/  finalizes recommendations.  Formulates
Irrigation                      specific fortnightly recommendations.
These will form the basis of fort-
nightly training sessions after suitable
modifications by SMS at the bimonthly
workshop training.
Bimonthly Workshop              Bimonthly Workshop will modify
SMS/ROO/Research Staff/ADO      recommendations made at preseason
(once in two months)            training to suit local conditions,
review findings of field trials and
training techniques, and prepare lesson
plans for fortnightly training.
Fortnightly Training            Discuss and finalize recommendations
PLAA/JTA/JT/SMS                 for next fortnight.
Training
4.11    Continuous practical training of PLAA, JTA and JT is crucial to
project success. The keynote is the training of SMS, who have to be conver-
sant with the latest research results, be active in the identification of
local problems, and participate in local verification trials. Research
workers would assist in the training of SMS in which ADO and AADO would also
participate.  Besides the bimonthly workshops, SMS would participate in
special short courses in water management, crop oriented training, technology
for rainfed farming and crop protection. These programs would be conducted
under actual field conditions. Details of various inservice training
programs are at Annex 2.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01    Total project costs over the five year development period, excluding
price contingencies, amount to US$6.5 M, which is US$5.5 per ha of cropped
Land or about US$13.27 per farm family, assuming 490,000 farm families.
Incremental costs after the project development period, to be met from HMG
budget resources, would be about US$0.66 M annually (less than 2 percent of
annual development expenditure for Agriculture) or US$1.4 per farm family.
5.02    Economic Benefits.  Attributing a precise level of benefits to this
type of project is difficult since it is not possible to determine what



-31-
proportion of benefits are due to extension alone and what are due to addi-
tional purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is the combina-
tion of a number of factors, with extension playing the role of a catalyst,
that brings the desired benefits. It is also difficult to estimate accept-
ance rate of recommended practices. However, since the project relies
primarily on reorganization and strengthening of an existing extension struc-
ture, the incremental cost is low per hectare and per farm family. Hence,
even very small production increase in the project areas would generate a
high rate of return. The project would generate a 50 percent rate of return
if, by 1992, yields of paddy (628,000 ha), maize (90,000 ha), wheat (195,000
ha), pulses (57,000 ha) and oilseeds (67,000 ha) and which cover about 80
percent of cropped land, increase by only 52 kg/ha, 47 kg/ha, 26 kg/ha, 17
kg/ha and 17 kg/ha respectively, over at least 50 percent of cropped land,
and which requires an increase of 2.76 percent over current yield levels of
all five crops. Details are given at Annex 4. Yield increases have exceeded
this level where the extension system has been operating effectively for a
few years. One significant feature of the system is that the practices
initially stressed by the extension service focus on improving cultural
practices (timely operations, good land preparation, proper seed rates, line
sowing and weeding) to maintain adequate and healthy plant populations over
unit area cultivated; as these operations usually involve more work and
little cash outlay, they are particularly well-suited to the needs of many
small farmers.
5.03    Project Risks.  Risks due to administrative changes are relatively
low because all extension staff would be under the control of DOA and this
arrangement would ensure a single line of administrative command thus reduc-
ing the problems of dual control inherent in past arrangements. Staff chan-
ges in the upper ranks of government are frequent and there is the additional
risk of lack of sustained, informed and motivated management. To avoid this,
it would be necessary for IDA to continue to supervise these projects closely
and frequently and provide constant encouragement and assistance to HMG until
the principles of the extension reform become fully accepted and permanently
institutionalized.
5.04    Other risks are mi.i.mal.  Experience in the Terai where the reformed
agricultural extension system has been introduced shows that farmers' respon-
siveness to recommendations has been good wherever visits by extension
workers are made :.ystematically and where PLAA and JTA have gained confidence
in their own professional ability to introduce improved knowledge and skills.
Furthermore, the ability of the extension service to develop and disseminate
recommendations leading to yield increases well above the level needed for a
50 percent rate of return has been demonstrated adequately. The Cropping
System Program has evolved suitable technology for rainfed and irrigated
areas (para 1.09) which has been tested and refined to suit different farming
situations. Progressive farmers who have adopted the technology have already
obtained higher yields. Substantial yield increases are, therefore, possible
even in the process of bringing the production level of average farmers up to
that of the progressive farmers. To reduce the risk of technological con-
straints lowering anticipated project benefits, research programs in the



-32-
Terai have already been strengthened and adequate provision exists for field
testing of research results.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from HMG on the follow-
ing matters:
(a) that (i) PLAA of requisite qualification and experience would be
recruited, and (ii) PLAA would be residents of the panchayats in
which they would work (para 2.06);
(b) HMG and IDA would review by March 31, 1987 the adequacy of
staff, especially of PLAA, and ensure thereafter that adequate
numbers are employed for satisfactory implementation of the
project (para 2.07);
(c)  SAEOs for Eastern, Central and Western regions would be
appointed and be in position by December 31, 1985 and one SAEO
for Hid and Far-Western Regions by August 31, 1986 (para 2.16);
(d) that (i) all incremental staff would be appointed according to
the agreed schedule, (ii) upon completion of the project, HMG
would maintain the level of incremental staff to continue to
achieve the objectives of the project, (iii) extension staff
would work exclusively for agricultural extension and they would
not be given any other responsibility, and (iv) all special
production programs planned for the project districts and
throughout the Terai would be implemented utilizing the exten-
sion methodology and organization (para 2.21);
(e) that HMG would (i) furnish to IDA by June 30, 1986 information
on location of sites for all civil works to be financed under
the project, and (ii) appoint the consulting Architect by Decem-
ber 31, 1985 (para 2.28);
Cf) terms and conditions of bicycles loans and the amount of the
maintenance allowance would be sufficient to ensure their pur-
chase and use (para 2.29);
(g) would (i) complete benchmark studies in six new project dis-
tricts by July 31, 1987, (ii) monitor project activities and
progress on a semi-annual basis, and (iii) carry out evaluation
surveys in a form acceptable to IDA and forward results to IDA
twice a year (para 2.33);
(h) follow the procurement procedures set out in paras 3.06 to 3.08
(para 3.10);



-33-
(i)  in order to facilitate prefinancing of project expenditures a
Special Account would be established by HMG in the Nepal Rastra
Bank (para 3.13);
(j)  follow the disbursement procedures set out in paras 3.11 and
3.12;
(k)  separate accounts would be kept and audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA and financial statement
for the year would be certified and submitted to IDA within nine
months after the close of the fiscal year (para 3.14); and
(1)  District Technical Committees would be established in project
districts by December 31, 1985 and meet thereafter at least
twice every year (para 4.08).
6.02    Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$ 7.2 million (SDR 7.4)
to His Majesty's Government of Nepal.



-34-
ANNEX 1
Table 1
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
Suasarv Acronmts hb Year
tNRs, '000)
bas, Cots                       Foreign Exchane
95/06   86/97   97/88   88/99   89/90   Total         %    Amount
20=mmanna  =gammum   nc-nm    am-n    ummaumm a mamumm  ~ma   mamas
I. INWESTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. aFrICE BUILDINGS                         - 7t860.0 89760.0 4P845.0         - 21,461.0   50.0 10,732.5
2. HOUSING                                  - 7,000 10P1250  9%045.0          - 26P220.0   50.0 13t110.0
3. TRAINING                                 -   100.0        -       -        -    100.0   50.0       50.0
4. ARCHITECT FEE                        100.0   100.0        -       -        -    200.0    0.0        0.0
Sub-Total CIVIL MORKS                      100.0 15l10.0 199985.0 13:890.0      - 47,985.0   49.9  23,892.5
B. VEHICLES ND EQUIPIENT
t. VEHICLES                           2,427.5 3:775.0 1:975.0        -        -  89077.5   95.0  7o673.6
2. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                     780.0   360.0   165.0        -        -  1,305.0   80.0  19044.0
3. FURNITtE                           1"90.0  1,35.0 1,075.0   200.0         -  49220,0   40.0  1P688.0
4. AUDIO VISUALS AND OTHER EOUIPHENT    1,993.8  19567.5 1.110.2     -        -  4,561.5   89.9  49099.7
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT         6,681.3 7,057.5 4,225.2   200.0         - 18164.0   79.9 14505.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                      6.781.3 22.167.5 23:110.2 14:090.0      - 66:149.0   58.0  38,397.8
II. RECIRRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND ALLWbMCE
1. EXTENSION STAFF                   2,735.4  3,57.6  5,141.2 5P5S5.5  5,555.5 22,560.2    0.0        0.0
2. TRAINING STAFF                      134.1   149.5   149.5   149.5   149.5    732.1    0.0          0.0
3. SUPPORT STAFF                       S40.7   M.6   964.1   964.1   964.1  4.Z25.6    0.0            0.0
4. ENGINEERING STAFF                   212.0   275.7   275*7   275.7    275.7  1,31498    0.0         0.0
Sub-Total SALARIES AND ALLIIANCE        3.622.2  4,790.4  6:530.5  69944.8  644.98 289832.7    0.0       0.0
B. OPERATING CUSTS
1. OFfICE AN EXTENSION MATERIAL        423.8   548.5   77.8   817.5   817.5  3.386.1   20.0    677.2
2. TRAUEL AND 011CR EXPENDITUIE        522.8   748.4   931.2   937.2   937.2  4:076.8   10.0    407.7
3. OFFICE REMT                         252.0   348.0   388.0   388.0    4C.¶i  1:416.0    0.0         o.n
4. VEHICLE oPRATnIN  COSTS             480.0   875.0  1,345.0  1550.0  1,550.0  5900.0   ?0.0   5220.0
5. FIELD TRIALS                         20.0    30.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    170.0   50.0         85.0
Sub-Total OPERATING COSTS               1:698.6 2,549.9 3,483.0 30732.7 39384.7 14v648.9   43.0  6.389.9
C. TRAINING COSTS                         967.5  1,569.0 1,678.0 1:603.0  1,603."  7i420.5    0.0        0.0
D. NOMITtNG AND EVALUATION                675.0   675.0   300.0   400.0   400.;  2:450.0    0.0          0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                       69963.3 9,584.3 11,991.5 12:680.5 12:332.¶  53:52.1   11.9  6.389.9
TOtal DASELImE COSTS                        13:744.6 31,751.8 354101.7 2h:770.5 12t332.5 1190701.1   37.4 44,787.7
Pthnical Continancies                     1,433.4  3.916.7 4P111,5 20797.2   639.9 12:807.9   49.6  6.399.7
Price CantUmncuis                           478.1  39725.8 7:519.2 8:485.7  5:019.6 25.268.4   34.1  83624.2
Totl PROJECT COSTS                          15.656.1 39:394.3 46732.4 38,043.5 19.031.0 1579857.4   37.9 594910.5
Z*f   *r.laai  sas   Zuan  ZSina                 nGma cassaX
Taxes                                       136.0   199.6   239.5   228.1   243.1  12046.2    0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchanre                          6.95.3 189092.5 19,S00.2 12:765.6 2,556.9 59,910.5    0.0        0.0
February 19, 195 11:05



-35-
ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 2
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
Recurrent Costs: 1984/85 - Benchmark X .ta Jt
NRs Million
Staff Salaries                          5.40
Operating Costs                         1.10
Total                               6.50
j] Estimated expenditure by EKG in Project Districts.



-36-
EL
MCILTUlML EItil PROJECT JJ                                                            A
Table 2. CMIL  1OM                                                              Ta
Dhtailed Cmst Tible
(Eu. '000)
parmters
OIt                                                  Cont. For.  Brat  Suau.
Unit W     97 8   76 U/l NM  W3/  Total Cost NM        117M     /       WI?  W"0  Total   Rat   Eah. Tax bt. km
I. DHESI BIIT COSIS
A. OIlFF    IWllltS
(200 s...)                Ihs.        -         I 1    -    -    2  00        -   600.0   600.0         -    -  1020.0  0.15  0.5           0
SAM
(150 U.N.)                las       -    1    3    -    -    4  450           -   450.0 1,350.0         -    - 1,000.0  0.15   0*5          0
JT Trainins L(hlt /b
(150 se.).                I.        -   15   15   10    -   40  450           - 64750.0 6,75.0  4.500,0      - 13,000.0  0.15   0.5         0
Rest NOUN.
(90 w...)                 Ihr.      -    -    -       1    -    I  D0         -       -        -   270.0    -   270.0  0.15  0.5           0
hraie /c
(15w ...)                 Nos.      -    4    4    5    -   13   15           -    60.0    60.0    75.0    -   1M5.0  0.15  0.5            0
Sub-Total OFFICE UUILIDINSS                                                         - 790.0  89760.0  4,945.0    - 21465.0
3. 1113111
JTI Id
(45  e..)                NOS.      -    5   20   30    -   5S  135           -   65.0  2,700.0  4W050.0    - 7P425.0  0.15   0.5          0      I-
(60  e.G.)                Ina.      -   10    5    -    -   15  1M0           - 1O,O.0   9O0.0          -    - 2,700.0  0.15   O.S         0      I
(lsoe.)                  Nos.      -    2    3    3    -    8  240          -    430.0   7200   720.0    - 1,920.0  0.15  0.5             0      1
Bl
(80 U.S.)                  Now.     -    6    8    I    -   22  240           -  1,440.0  1920.0 1i,20.0    - 5M230.0  0.15  0.5           0      I--
^110 /I
10  ....)                 Nae.      -    3    3    -    -    6  270          -   810.0   B10.0          -    -1.d20.0  0.15  0.5           0 
UIEO
(120 w..)                 Naga.     -    2    2    -    -    4  360                7200    720.0        -    -  I .0   05   0.5             0 
ODtUr Clns III KW  /h
(M0 U.N.)                 Nae.      -    2    4    4    -   10  244          -    460.0   96.o   T60.0    - 2,400.0  0.15   0.5            0 a
Othwr Ibn haz. Itt /1
(43 U.S.)                 Nos.      -    4    I    8    -   20  135          -   540.0  14080.0  1IO0.0    - 2,700.0  0.15  0.5           0      [-
Other Stott /s
(35 sw...)               hNs.       -    1    3    3    -    7  105          -    105.0   315.0   315.0    -   735.0  0.15   0.5           0      h
S9b-Ttal OUSID                                                                     - 7,050.0 10,125.0  9,5.0       - 26,220.0
C. TRAININI
Rwnvation of Shed and
feuiing at Panruair        NOs.     -    1    -    -    -    1  100           -    100.0       -        -    -    100.0  0.15  0.5         0    TL
Sub-Toal Il1E41                                                                   -    100.0        -        -    -   100.0
D. ARNIOTECT FEE                                                                100.0   100.0        -        -    -   200.0  0.15    0          0      a
Total I1NsTT  WmTS                                                                 100.0 15,I10.0 18,8.0 13r390.0    - 47,95.0
Total                                                                               100.0 15,110.0 19e985.0 13890.0    - 47,95.0
h8  At Sisri mNd Twulih .
7b  Office cm  midmnce for JTr traininJ  hull an stoe
at ach Training Sub-center.
/c  PJect C rdintArC2), SAEO(4 anr e ch for Parsa, Rautalit
Smunari, Sartri. Sirbu lardia  Iundusu r.
/d  In reot, areas.
/a In remote areas.
Ir Parwa brat RPht, Swrii Iailali, Du   brdla, Kanc6              r.
AN  Sunsari, S,ari, Sirliit Dardia, Dan, Kanchamr.
/h  In reno  ares.
A1  In reote arn.
/J In remote areas.
Febru  19, 193 5t:00



-37-
ANNEX 1
Table 3
ZOCLUW CEXIWB FBJT SS
Tale 3. Y85 AN 3PIrer
Detailed Cost tIV
PlIS. '0001
Parsewters
beti                                       am Cots                     Pie.
-  it                                           Cent. For.   rss  Suar
Unit 1     37  APM  WUII f       Total O et W ISM   KM    P/U   WI? MAO  Total   bat  ECtc. Tax Rat teat
I. -0 7T it5
a. tEmsQ
a1 uiai jew /a                   ln.      7    4    3    -    -   14  200 Ire.O   WA o           ODA     -    - 2O.3IO   0.25 o0.        0.01     Pc
Map Cesm it                      be.    33   0    37    -    -  141   30    OL.02,070U1NA        00A     -    - 4,30.0  0.15  0.95    0.1         PC
liccln (Dtffn d)                 Me      25   70   70    -    -   165  1.    37.5   05.0  125.0         -    -   247.5  0.25 0.95    L.1         IC
ile IC2 -    2    -    -    -    2 400                                              - 00.0         -    -    -   100.0   .15 0.95    0.01         VC
St-lTetl 101E0.                                                                   2,427.5 30775.0 .8P5.0    -    - 1,077.5
3. OFIE EIIET
P rjt aodinator d                be.      -    1    -    -    -    1  140           -  140.0       -    -    -   140.0  0.15  0.0    O.0Q    aEO
NeM/s                            N.       I    I    -    -    -    4   55 265.0           5.0      -    -    -   220.0  0.25 0.S    0.01    MED
aM                J       r        s.     5    3    3    -    - t1 1            275.0       .0 165.0               605.0 0.15 0.s    0.01    0EO
Tra. igre lnr/g                  bIS.     2    -    -    -    -    2  120   240.0           -      -    -    -   240.0  0.15  0.0    0.01        EO
Director Genl Office/b h          os.     I    -    -    -    -    I  100   100.0           -      -    -    -   100.0  0.15  0.0    0.01    1EO
Se-Total IFFIE E0MI T                                                              70.0  360.0   ISA        -    - 1,305.0
C. FaIlTRE
Project Cordiator                         -    I    -    -           -    2  100    -  15o.0       -          -   100.0  0.15  0.4    0.01    FUtR
SE                                        3    1    -    -    -    4  30         90.0      .0      -    -    -   120.0 0.15  0.4    0.01    FUR
AN - Office ad oarter                     5    3    3    -    -   11   50   250.0  150.0  150.0    -    -   S50.0  0.15  0.4    0.01    FUR
Rat Him                                   -    -    -    I    -    1 5              -       -      - 50.0    -    50.0 0.15   .4    0.01    FUR
Trein Sb-ter                             20   20   IS    -    -   56   50  1000.0 1,o000.0  900.0    -    - 2,300.0  0.15  0.4    0.01    ftlR
.2111*                                    -   25   25   30    -   70    5           -   75.0   250 150.0    -   350.0  0.25  0.4    0.01    FUR
trainirs Centers/i                        2    -    -    -    -    2  100   200.0           -      -    -    -   200.0  0.15  0.4    0.01    Rht
Dirctor Gewal Office                      I    -    -    -    -    I   50    50.0           -      -    -    -    50.0  0.15  0.4    0.01    FUR
Sb-Totel FTUEM                                                                    159s0.0 1435.0 ltOl7.0 20.    - 4.220.0
L. MsM VIRl A  OIE EPJIPrir
Project toordinator /J          INS.      -    I    -    -    -    I   10           -   20.0       -    -    -    10.0  0.15  0.0    0.01    IVE
SEM/k                           los.      -    4    -    -    -    410              -6 4.0         -    -    -    40.0  0.15  0.0    0.01    AM
a   1o eM.                                5    3    3    -    -   11   30   150.0   90.0   Y.    -    -   330.0 0.15 0.95    0.01    AVE
T7iia Sub-Cetr  I                Nos.    20   20   16    -    -   56   60  1.200.0 1,200.0  960.0    -    - 3,360.0  0.15  0.95    0.01          M
JI/ilD to                        Mos.   100  Is   46    -    -  32   0.5    50.0   V.5   23.0    -    -   160.5  0.15  0.5    0.02    AVE
P16 /0             Ib.   407  3SO   93    -    -  50   0.4   162.   140.0   37.2    -    -   340.0  0.15  0.5    0.01    AVE
Trainirs C en tr                 Nob.     I    -    -    -    -    I  30e   300.0           -      -    -    -   300.0  0.15  0.9       0.01    AE
Civil Giineris/                  lbs.    21    -    -    -    -   21        2    21.0       -      -    -    -    21.0  0.15 0.9    0.01    AVE
Sb-Total N4m  VISUL -  011R EniELWT                                               1.0530 1,567.5 l.I10.2    -    - 49561.5
Total l11151IT COSTS                                                                6u681.3 7057.5 4,225.2 200.     -1-.6
Total                                                                                66,81.3 7,057.5 4225.2 200.0    - 1I64.0
/a For Jba. bits,  Nuammasha nIitta,rig Sarlabi. Sihe gailali, Brdiai
SE024l. Prjet Coordinatll) ao  Daa  DEll).
/b PbrSI), IsreU2). bdtabatlll. rban() StrmeriOlS, Sirhdl(5). Swtari(5.
gailati(O), Berdie(S), DhittI, K,cbantur), Projet Coordimttorl) Trainirs Centrs(41 - am
etocwle eat for dT an  M  Director lewal Officr(4) ad Production Orf icers(2V.
le For Trauma cenkr : Parwninr ad  hata.
Id Treit (23t  eall ad Etish, Doblicatort Photocw,r   adoir etk.
le  Tweritee   rlcaieow  etc.
/t Tstriten, lPolicatOr etc.
Is T riter Dlicator, Reference  Aiotil, t.t Kitchen utwnils for Peraar.
lh  Tresrter , Ilicator etr.
A    iteRl wd Claisos furitars for Pavnir'r. Librar turmitue for Perngnirw
Ad JSA.
12 C  r.o flal ad blat bards dec.
A  Cur. flarwl ad bla  bards. tc.
/A  Ca_e csttr Plawr flaml aJ  black brds. etc.
/a Flwl ad black bheeds wil testias kit. wasurira tare, weiehin balanc,
olwutic anenring rlas baSts. woo  of differt sizs. arecia. jars ad battles.
insect colletio   oie rlnt Pretectien ed a_nts etc.
In Sull foldi  board, fmtel dct  Ksnns tere surius bkloan  bet to carrs Prers ret.
/a Sel fodw boad. flmel clo th.amirs twap bha to care Pwers et.
hp Slide Pso.htaor, file noeictor, aba  projector. casette tan rcorer,
Public ad_ess satee   nd wortele generator for JS. africultwel tools. Plnts
protection _aidst, maw  ad semI material, draing board ad muint. artist
tols ad seteria  dirles boro. ek. otr Jm*a ad Panaiur.
/e  ormerin r     tw  aid on rock  calcu r ret  tilt.
Fedrses LIP IM   1:100



NEPAL
AtI URTWAL EXIDSIEO PIUCT 11                                                                     ANNEX  I
Table 4. ITRESNETAL ISAFF COSTS                                                                 Table  4
Dtailed Cotst able
list, '0001
Paraetters
Duanital                                             list Cosle                       Thy,
............lt... . .... ... . . . . .................. .         ............................-Cnt, fr,   Orm   sS ars
Unit     95/06  /8S7  i/N8 N/1f 89/90 Total   Cost   8$/56    W87   0/57/N    N/1f             /OW    Total    Rate  Extch  Tas Rato kcount
.........  ...... ..            .           ..........- * .stst sissa *l  .sa  ... 2   .8.... M111  l.... I..SO*=  ..........  .11,11 "IM 8 .ss"sl .ssl lss *sss*tt  I *"
1. RECURENIT COSTS
A. EXTENSION STAFF
_ .........
1. IROJCY COORDINATOR
Junor Technilimn                           StatNear        I      I      I     I      1      5  HIS       11.8    11.  11 .IS    tits    11.-          59.0      0      0         0      ES
Driver                                     StatNr          -      I      I     I      1      4   7.7          -     7.7      7.7     7.7      7.7      30.9       0     0         0      ES
Sob-rTatl  ROJACY COORDINIOR                                                                                  ;1.;    ;;s5    ;; 5    it's    19.5        59.S
2. DIRECIOR ENEAL OFFICE /a
_,,.,,..........:.......
EItmsion an  Traininrs Specialists         Stat'ear         3     3      3     3      3     15 IS 65       49.5    49$ 5    49.5    49.5    49.5    247.5         0     0         0      ES
SuoJet Natter Speciallss                   Staffnar        -      2      2     2      2      5  1H.5               33,0    33.0    33.0    33.0    132.0          0     0         0      ES
Assistant Ecnoeiat/Plaanr                  Staftnar        -      2      2     2     2       S  165                33.0    33.0    33.0    33.0    132.0          0     0         0      ES
Suo-Total DIRECTOR  ERIIAL OFFICE  Ia                                                                         49.5   115.5   115.5   115.5   115,5    511.5
3. REGIONAL LEtEL lb
SAEO                                       Staffysar       3      4      4     4      4     1  27.9      93.7   111.6   111.6   111.   111.6    530.1           0     0         0      Es
Asit. Econoelst                            StattsIar       3      4      4     4      4     19  16.5      49.5    66.0    66,0    664.0    6.0    313.5          0      0         0      CS
it                                         Stattnar        3      4     4      4     4      1  11,1      35.4    47.2    4792    47.2    47.2    224.2          0      0         0      ES
Driver                                     Statfosar       -      3     4      4     4      15   77                23.1    30-5    30.9    30.S    115.5         0      0         0      ES
Sub-lotal REGiONAL LEVEL  /b                                                                                 168.6   247.9   255,6   255.6   255.6  11183.3
4. DISTRICT LEEvL
ADO /c                                     Statffnr        3      5     6      6      6     26  20.9      62.7   104.5   125.4   125.4   125.4    543.4          0      0         0      ES
115s /d                                    Sldattyct      10    16   72    22    22         92  Il5    165,0   264,0   36.0   363.0   363.0  1,5i1.O            0      0         0      ES
Driver /e                                  StatNear        5      7    10    10    10       42   7.7      38.5    53.9    77.0    77,0    77.0    323.4          0      0         0      ES
Sub-lotal DISTRICT lEYEL                                                                                    266.2   472.4  565.4   565.4   55.4  2,3154.8
5. FIELD STAFF
............
Trovtilon Offlexr                          StattYlf       25    34    43    43    43    IN   16.5    412.5   561.0   709.5   709.5   709.5  3.10210              0      0         0      Es
if1 t                                      Stafseatr       5      5    10    10    10       40  HIS      59,0    59.0   IIS.O   11.0   11S0    472.4          0      0         0      ES
JTA /I                                     StatYear       34    37    65    S0    90    296   8.9    302.6   329.3   578.5   712.0   712.0  2t634.4              0      0         0      ES
TLIM                                       Statntear    407   505   772   S50   550  3384   3.   1465.2 1.918.0 2,179.2 3,060.0 310400 12o1l2,4                  0      0         0      ES
Suo-Total FIELD STAFF                                                                                     2,239,3 2.767.3 4115.2 4,5".5 44".5 1s,290-s
Sub-Totil EXTE 0SION STAFF                                                                                    2l735.4 3.572.6 53ol42 115S.5 5S555.5 22.50 .2
. TIIINING CENTER STAFF
Tralning Ottior /h                            Staftnar         I     I      I     I      I      5  20,9      20.9    20.9    20,9    20.9    20.         104.5       0     0         0      TIS
Instructors /i                                Slatfnar        4      4      4     4      4     20  16.5      66,0    660    66.0    66.0   6S0    330.0             0      0         0     IRS
Jl /i                                         Stftytar         4     4      4     4      4     20  11.3      47,2    47.2    47.2    47.2    47.2    236O           0      0         0      IRS
Driver                                        Stattoiar              2      2     2      2      *   7.7          .    15,4    15.4    15.4   15.4         61.6       0     0         0      IRS
Sub-tltal 1iAININO CENIER STAFF                                                                                 M3t;   149.5   149;5   149.5   149.5    732;1
C. SUPPORT STAFF
,. ...........
1. FOJECT COORDINATOR
....... ... ... _.
hilef Ateonltnt                            Sta'rasar        I     I      I     I      1      5  22.1      22.1   2i.1    22.1    22.1    22.1    110.5           0      0         0     6FS
Senior Accownltnt                          Staffear         I     I      I     I      1      5    17      17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0         95.0      0      0         0     VSF
Senior Clark (Storel                       Stfatear         I     I     I      I      I      5  11.9      11       11.9    11.s    11.9    11.9        59.5      0      0         0     s5s
PtrNalt'ehn                                Staftwer         I     I      I     I      I      5      8      6.0      4,0      i,0     6.0      6.0      30.0      0      0         0     5S
ii-       0.:   O       I TOR                                                                              ;         P;      P44    1,744   ,1;.7l    21-.0



:    S0   -    SSi  i i
senior kcosmnteM                            1tefnr          I      I      I     I      1       5    17      17.0    17.0    I7.0    1710    17.0         55.0       0     0         0      us6
TIsUt/Clerk                                 Stithfenr       1      3     3      3      3     13   9.2        9.2    27.6    27M6    27.6    27.6    119.6           0     0         0     505
Pn                                          staffatar       -      2      2     2      2       8     6         -    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0         43S0       0     0         0      PS
tubTlttIl DIRECITOR 0KAL OFFIC1                                                                                26.2    566    56 4    54.6    566          25.i6
3. REGIGNAt LEVEL A
........... ..........._
Solar Accormtnt                             StatNear        3      4      4     4      4      19    17      5150    63.0    60.0    6.         68 U.0    323,0      0     0         0      oS
Clerk/Tanlit                                Staftear        3      4      4     4      4      I9   9.2      27S6   36.6    36.8    36.6    361    1574.             0     0         0      5s0
eonjVatliean                                Statfwar        6      a     8      3      8     38      6      36.0    480    43.0    49.0    48.0    220.0            0     0         0      sn
4    .. 01335. k.                                                                                                                    ...
Acceotent /I                                Staftear        3      6      7     7      7     30  1159       357    71A4    *323    03.3    S23    357.0             0     0         0      on
Tvpost/Clrtk /a                             SlietaIer       5      9    11    It   51        46   9.2       46.0    73.6   101.2   1012   1012    423,2             0     0         0      uSI
PeonNatchaan 7n                             SlatNeor       25    45    67    67    A7    271         6    150.0   27040   402.0   402.0   402.0  5,626.0            0     0         0      Ps
St-lalel DISTRICT LEUL                                                                                        231.7   415.0   586.1   586.5   506i5  2M4062
5. 3AININ CENTERS /a
....... ........ .....
kewtnlant                                  SIteteer         2      2     2      2      2     10  55.9       2320    232.     23.8    23.8    23S    119.0           0     0         0      51S
Twpist/Clerk                                Staftwear       2      2     2      2      2      10   9.2      18.4    18.4    5.4   15.4   15.4            92.0       0     0         0      us
Artist                                      Slttvear        2      2     2      2      2      50  10,5      21.0    21.0    21.0    21,0    210    5050             0     0         0      5s"
Helnrs                                      Sthtaur,        9      a     9      8      8      40     6      4310    48.0    48.0    49.0    48.0    240.0           0     0         0      Vs
Su-Total TRAINING CENTEAS  /o                                                                                 1115 2   1115 2   111,2   111.2   1112    556.0
Sub-otatl 55 0I STlAF                                                                                            50.7 2            964.1   94.1   964.1 i4     2526
D. CIYIL ENGOIINEESNO StAFF In
........................................._
Encutive EInelter                              StfatNer         I     I      I     I      I       5  20.9      20,9    20.9    20.9    20.9    20.9    104.5           0     0         0      ENS
Aialslanl Enireer                             Slftogar         3     4      4      4     4      19  565       49.5    66.0    66U0    64,0    660    313.5            0      0         0     ENS
Draftsamn                                      StatNoer        2      2      2     2      2      10  115.      23,6    23.6    22.6    22.6    26    556.0             0     0         0      EMS
Ovrseas                                        Slat ter        10    54    14    14    14        66  55.8    518.0   56.2   565.2   165.2   165.2    776.3             0      0         0     ENS
St-leal C1VIL ENDINE1 lN1   STAFF  Ir                                                                            212 0   275.7  215.7   275.7   275.7  ;i;;.11
Tolsl RECstI NT COSIS                                                                                             1.622.  4790;4              11;6;443 6;4431 211;3227
Total                                                                                                              2.622,2 4.79064 6,530.5 6.9443 644.8 21,322.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ....... ............. .... __..__. .. 
/a  At Iathardu Is Ithe atic. ao  lretl cto r urel, Aars1ustIre to  .tre .nth                ..
te Esltnsian/Ttalnni  nd PlSm  ni ttilons.
/b tre each fit Eastern, Central end Westen mRSoni           d am  tatr id rad
Far Western lellioM (cohsnidl.
/a  Onr each tar Patse  Reuhasl  SunseltS  KInenhnmur, lerdia  rihe,
/d  Two each for It dlisricts.
/i  for  Jhires Chilban    aishna, NiSaltari, Strhuli  Slrhrt EIllIle  and
lardiat nd Auo sore,
/It  Iaa31  Raulthall2Ia SeterII   and Srtha (2).
/0  Parsaflhl  1ACt154), Raulahetlyl, Norus121  tisneritil,l tIrteISl6le
SIrheo12Ie lardlal3 end 15 additional.
/b rat S,da
/I  J1ke Iraining center,
/J  J ka Wd terwanlrur trainlni  cotate.
.1  Fir IAEO.
/7  Patti.n Da tr latahat llell, IOncthwaut. IerdlI and Doae
/a  One tor nich district,
In  tralnird Suh-ceners(56) eS  ame for ADO oftictill).
/o  For Jude and Pernvnlrur lreinird  ntelnr
/r  One Egecutive Enainuer at ProJect  O Isl the terall tour Atilitent
Ensinte  ftr Ritaont - Estlem  and Catrelill, Vestomill  Hlid    sterarnill
and Far  WestarnIlSl  Ovriest Easlern  nd Central(3), VeitarnlelJ  Hid 11tlemlI1 end
Far hsterni4l.
..        19.  5.       1_._..............0. 1..... . .. . ...... .  ....  .......................
FereoNtr 19i Iff IllOI



NEPAL                                                                             ANNEX  1
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION MOJECT II                                                                Table  5
Table 5. INCREMENTAL OPERATINO COSTS
Detailed Cost Table
(NRc. '0001
Paraceters
Guantitw                                            Base Costs                      Phw.
.................................   Unit  ----------------------------                             Canto For.   Gross   Suaarv
Unit     85/86 86/87 87/88 E8/89 99/90 Total   Cost   95/86   86/87   97/a8   98/89   89/90   Total    Rate  Exch, Tax Rate Acount
:33333333  3a333  :311l 33333 33333  3S3:3  m:X:::  :sll z33:333  *uuu:"u miami:s *:s..a: uw.:..: ::3:3a3x  33         axa33: 3333 3333333 3a3333
I, RECURRENT COSTS
A. OFFICE OPERATING EXPENSES
AND EXTENSION MATERIAL
.........       .....
PLAA /a                                 Staftfear    407   505   772   950   850  3J384   0.4    162.9   202,0   3089.    340,0   340.0  12353.6   Oi    0,2               0     OEM
JT/JTA /b                               Staftwear    187   236   361   376   376  1i536   0.5         93.5   119.0   180.5   198,0   138.0    768.0    0,1   0.2            0     OEM
SmS /c                                  Staftuear      10    16    22    22    22       92      1     10.0    16.0    22.0    22,0    22,0       92.0    0.1   0,2          0     OEM
Training Sub-centers /d                   Nos,         20    37    56    56    56    225   2.5        50,0    92.5   140,0   140.0   140,0    562,5    0.1   0.2            0     DE"
ADO le                                  Staffwear       5     8    11    11    11       46   2.5      12,5    20.0    27,5    27.5    27.5    115.0   01   0.2             0     OEM
SAEO /t                                 Staftwear       3     4      4     4      4     19     5      15.0    20.0    20,0    20,0    20,0       95,0   01   0,2           0     OEM
ProJect Coordinator /g                  Staffwear       I      I     I     I      1      5      5      5.0      5,0     5,0     5.0      5.0     25,0   01   0.2           0     OEM
Training Centers /h                       Nos.,         2     2      2     2      2     10    15      30.0    30,0    30.0    30,0    30.0    150.0   01   0.2             0     OEN
Civil Engineering                       Staffwear       I      I     I     I      1      5    40      40.0    40.0    40.0    40,0    40.0    200.0    0.1   0.2            0     OEM
Director Oeneral Office                 Staffvear       I      I     I     I      1      5      5      5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0     25.0    0.1   0.2          0     OEM
Sub-Total OFFICE OPERATING EXPENSES
AND EXTENSION MATERIAL                                                                               423.8   549.5   778,9   817,5   817,5  3t396.1
B, TRAVELLING AND OTHER EXPENDITURE
................. ........................ .....
JTA Cycle Allowance /i                  Staftwear    1 7   171   262   277   277  1,124   0.4         5498   69.4   104.8   110.8   110.8    449,6    0.1  01              0     lOE
JT /J                                   Stafftear      50    65    99    99    99    412   0,6        30.0    39.0    59,4    59.4    59,4    247,2    0.1  01             0     TOE
ADO /k                                  Staftwear       5           11    11    11      46      6     30.0    49,0    66.0    66.0    66,0    276.0    0.1  01             0     TOE
AADO /I                                 Stafftear       5     8    11    11    11       46      4     20,0    32,0    44.0    44,0    44.0    184.0    0.1  01             0     TOE
SHS /e                                  Staftfear      10    16    22    22    22       92    10    100.0   160.0   220,0   22090   220,0    920,0    0.1  01              0     TOE
SAEO Office In                            Has,          3      4     4     4      4     19      7     21,0    29.0    28.0    28.0    28,0    133.0    0.1   0.1            0     TOE
ProJect Coordinator's Office /o           Nos.          I      I     I     I      1      5      5      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      25.0    0.1  0o1          0      TOE
Training Centers /p                       Has,          2     2      2     2      2     10      5     10.0    10.0    10.0    10,0    10.0       50.0    0.1   0.1          0     TOE
Civil Engineering Staff                 Stafftear      14    21    21    21    21       98    10    140.0   210,0   210.0   210.0   210.0    980.0    0.1   0.1             0     TOE
Production Officers                     Statfvear      25    34    43    43    43    189        4    100.0   136.0   172.0   172,0   172,0    752.0    0.1   0.1            0     TOE
Director General Office                   Nos,          I     I      I     I      1      5    12      12.0    12,0    12.0    12.0    12.0       60,0    0.1   0.1          0     TOE
Sub-Total TRAVELLING AND OTHER EXPENDITURE                                                              522,8   748.4  931.2   937.2   937,2  4.076,9
C. OFFICE RENT /a
...... .......... ..
trainins Sub-centers                      Nos,         15    30    40    40    10    135        4     60.0   120,0   160.0   160,0    40,0    540,0    0.1         0        0     OFR
SAEO                                    Staffvear       3     4      4     4      -     15    36    108.0   144.0   144.0   144,0          -    540.0    0.1      0         0     OFR      4
ProJect Coordinator                     Staffteav       I      I     I     I      -      4    94      84,0    84.0    94,0    94.0         -    336.0    0.1       0        0     OFR
Sub-Total OFFICE RENT  /a                                                                               252.0   348.0   398.0   389.0    40.0  1,416.0
D. VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
1. District 4WD Diesel /r                 Nos.          s     9    1         17    12 P   54     71     I    1711 -    3,A A    3A A A   31A A  I#FA c          A         A ^
I   ,                           ':           4     1      ..              t             te~~~~~~~               ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~ 1'  1,         I



..Ai..S.3?U...T.. Ci.S.
1. District 4WD Diesel /r                  Noas          5      9    12    12    12        50    30    150.0   270.0   360.0   360.0   360.0  1,500.0    0.1   0.f            0.1      VOC
2.  AEO 4UD Diesel /s                      Hos,           1     3      4     4      4      16    40      40.0   120.0   160.0   160.0   160.0    640U 0    Ott   0.9         O0l       vOC
3, ProJect Coord. 4WD Diesel /t            Has,           I     1      1      1     1       5    40      40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    200.0   01   0.9            0o1      vOC
4, Minibus /u                              Hos,           -     2      2     2      2       a    15         -    30.0    30.0    30         30 0    120.0   01   0.9          0.1     VOC
5. Hotorcuwles
- Director General Office /v            Has,          -      4     4      4      4     16      5         -    20.0    20.0    20,0    20.0        80.0    0.1  0.         0.1      WSC
- OHS /w                                NHas         10    10    16    22    22        80    10    100.0   100.0   160.0   220,0   220,0    800.0    0.1   0.9            0o1       vOC
- JT Ix                                 Nos,         20    28    74    99    99    320         5    100,0   140.0   370.0   495,0   495.0  I6tOOO    0.1   0.9             0.1      UoC
- Coordinator /w                        Nos,          -      3      4     4      4     15      5         -    15,0    20,0    20.0    20,0        75.0    0.1   0.9        0.1      Yoe
- Training Center Iz                    Nos.          -      4      4     4      4     16      5         -    20,0    20,0    20,0    20.0        80.0    0.1   0,9        0.1    vUC
- Production Officers 'a                Nos,         10    24    33    37    37    141         5     50,0   120.0   165.0   185,0   t85,0    705.0    0.1   0,9            0.1      VXC
Sub-Total Hitorcvcles                                                                                   250.0   415.0   755,0   960.0   960.0  3.340.0
Sub-Total VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS                                                                          480.0   975.0 1.345.0 19550,0 01550.0  5800.0
Et FIELD TRIALS                                              -      -     -      -     -       -            20.0    30.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    170.0    0.1   0.5            0.1       FT
Total RECURRENT COSrS                                                                                       1,698.6 2P549.9 3t493.0 3.732,7 3,394.7 14,84#9.
as::::= = .ssau ::::aa::::: s:=== ==.= a:..ma::
Total                                                                                                        1N699.6 2,549.9 3v483,0 3,732.7 3,384.7 14i849.9
us:::   ::...u:..........         a: : ........:: ...*... --::::
/a  Includes rrinting of diaries. roster raper and raint for Preparing sisple aids and other instructional material.
lb  Includes Printing of diaries, Poster PaPer and Paint for PreParint siaple aids and other instructional material,
/c  For  treparins tralning aids ard other simple visuals.
Id  Preparing training materlal and for fortnightlw
trainins costs.
/e  Annual office operatins costs,
It  Annual office operating costs,
Ig Annual office operating costs,
/h  Trainins Center (Jhuaka and Parwanipur) annual oreratins
costs and Preparation of teachins aids.
/I  HRs 30 Per month for JTA owning a bicucle.
/J  Arvnual travelling costs,
/k  Annual travellins costs,
/1  Annual lravellini costs.
In  Annual trajelling costs.
/n  Annual travellins costs,
vo  Annual travellins costs,
/4  Annual travelling costs,
/a  Annual office rental Pending comPletion of civil works.
Ir  At 12000 kes per wear includes Jeep of Jhumka RTC,
/s  At 15,000 kes Per wear,
/t  At 15.000 kse Per wear,
/u  At 6.000 kas per wear.
/v  About 15 kms/daw at iRs 1.50/ke.
/w  About 30 kms/dav at IRs 1,50/kn.
/x  About 1  kst/day at NRs 150/ke,
1y  About 15 kssuday at NRs 1,50/km.
/z  About 15 kas/dav at ERs 1.50/ks,
/a  About 15 kas/day at hRs 1,50/ke,
…-…-............................................................--............a........................................................…...................…. ........
Februarv 19  1785  11103



NEPA                                                                    ANNER I
AGRIILTIRIL EXTEIEIOII PRECT 11                                                      Table 6
Table 6. TEAINIIB COMTS
Detailed Cost Table
(Ms. '0O0I
Parmters
hmntity                                        Ae costs                    Phb.
iUnit -                                           Cant. For.  Gras  Sumart
Unit    35t/6 9f/87 87/3  88/59 99/90  Total  Cast 85/86 86/87  87U   W89M    /90  Total   bte Exch. Tax lbte  ccunt
r COME
Iation Trains
Amg Starr la               StatNer   700        -     -      -      -   700  0.1  70.0         -      -       -      -   70.0  0.15    0          0    TIC
ta3ft                      Stafttear   200   350   420   420   420  liStS   0.1  20.0   35.0   42.0   4.0   42.0  131.0  0.15    0                0    TiC
-1 Orienttion Trainird                                                                 90.0   35.0   42.0   42.0    2.0  251.0
-race Trainins: FUP   /b    Staifyar   150   300   150   100   100   800  1.5  225.0  450.0  2Z5.0  150.0  150.0 1,200.0  0.15    0               0    TNC
- thlt Uorkshot Ic
klNADO)                   Staffear    25    40    52    52    52   221   1.2  30.0   48.0   62.4   62U4    62.4  265.2  0.15    0                 0    TIC
jasNm Training
'U4AnI                     Staft,ear   600 1.000 1.300  1.300  1.300  5.500  0.2  120.0  200.0  260.0  210.0  260.0 1100.0  0.15    0             0    TIC
- asom Regioal lorishor
--UIS/AAITrs. Office)       Stattear    25    40    52    52    52   221  0.3   7.5   12.0   15.6   15.6   15.6   66.3  0.15    0                   0    TIC
-:i1 Short Caems Jd
Statfear    10    16    22    22    22    92  1.5  15.0   24.0   33.0   33.0   33.0  138.0  0.15    0                  0    INC
JMA/JT                     Stafter   600  1,000  1.300  1,300  19300 5.500  0.8  480.0  800.0 1,040.0 1040.0 1040.0 4400.0  0.15          0       0    TIC
:1 Speciul Short Caures /d                                                           45.0  824.0 l.073.0 14073.0 1.073.0 4.533.0
ENT COSTS                                                                         967.5 1.569.0 1.678.0 1403.0 1,03.0 7.420.5
=       =n      _n      _n     _       _
967.5 1l569.0 1,678.0 1,603.0 1.6*3.0 79420.5
: ing staff in Koran, Sw9sri, Rautuat, Parsa,
J Rwamehi districts will be siven a two-da orientation
badtch (40 erosD  Per batch).
includes incentives to research scientists.
includes incentives to reserch scientists.
includes incentives to research scientists.
19B5  11:05



-41-
NEPL                                                  ANNEX 1
ABRIC1LTIRAL   TSION PIROT IT                                      Table  7
Table 7. NUNITWI AN"D EUATXON
Detailed Eost Table
(IR. '0002
?a-ameters
uantitv                                   bse Costs                Phw.
- -      Unit                                 -  Cant. Far.   Gross  Sumary
Unit    5/86 86/87 87/U M/  89/9  Total ro t rU6 U9/7 87/U8 J8/89 89h9   Total   Rate Exch. Tax Rate Account
e==    z_-  J3==  =          Q= ==        _       ===         ===__=                : ==-=         =_=      ==
MT COSTS
e Study !a             District      3    3    -       -    -    6   125 375.0 375.0       -    -    -   750.0  0.15        0        0    MAE
ira and
-wutian Studies hb          Nos.        3    3    3    4    4    17  100 300.0 300.0 300.0 400.0 400.0 1,700.0  0.15          0        0    MAE
WNT COSTS                                                                   675.0 675.0 300.0 400.0 400.0 2,450.0
675.0 675'.0 300.0 400.0 400.0 2,450.0
, Karchawur wJd Bhrdia in 84/85;
-irha md Saptari in 85/96.
auld be candtcted an scmitic Project activities.
Is  1i1:05



NIEPAL
AOtICULTURAL ENTENIION PROJEcT:  PHAS  It
RlfUIzUDI   AND AVATLASILITTY OF KIUBIUON  STAf
Diitrict         Puncbh- PIALMj/|A .11|3JTA          Ine -21  |J                  InCr_mm- SHB   I Fers- rntcr  n- ADO   ADO   ADO   ADO    Incemn-j
ayet.  |Rq.  leqd.  POittonu talJTA   Reqd.  Poettonie tal JT I aqd.  mn:t 3H8  *l S3   RaIqd.  Avail.  rnd. vail. tcl ADO
L   I             ~~~~~Aealtable lImed         Avalslb1  INmede     I        Avallable X   z               Need                Ndd    |
Morsng            66      66       22        20        2         a         8        -         2       -          2        1      .1      1       1
Sunserl           52      !2       IB       17         1         7        7         -         2       -          2        1      1       1      -       I
'Aug hat         101     101       34       23         9        12        10        2         2       -          2        1      1       1      -       1
Ura              103     105       35       21        14        13        10        3         2       -          2        1       1      1       1      -
Pars.             33      33       23       20         a        10       10         -         2       -          2        1      1       1      -     _
Sub Total       407      407      137       103       34        50       45         5        10       -         10        5      5       5      2       3
tEA it
Sardia            34      34       12        9         3         5         S        -         2       -          2        1       1      1      -       I
KsXalla           44      44       1s        13        -         6        6         -         2       -          2        1       I      1       1      -
Kanchanpur        20      20        7         7        -         4         &        -         2       -          2        1       2      1      -       I
Sub Total         98      98       34       31         3        15        IS        -         6       -          6        3      3       3      1       2
TEAR III
Saptart          115     115       39        23       16        14        11        3         2       -          2        1       1      1      1       -
Sirha            112     112       3B       26        12        14        12        2         2       -          2        1       1      1      -       I
Don&              40      40       14        14        -         6         &                  2       -          2        1      1       1      1I
Sub Total        267     267       91       63        28        34        29        5         6       -          6        3      3       3      2       1
Addit lona
Need. 3/          -       78       15         -       15         -        -         -         -       -          -        -      -       -      -       -
TOTAL            772     3SO      277       197       30        99        89       10        22       -         22       11     11      11      5       6
1  One PLAA per Panch.yat and one JTA for three PLAk or nine Panneheyats.
_I  One JT for three JTA and one for ADO offlce.
3t Additional poaltitom  of PLAA and JTA needed for  akintg adjustnents
in remote and difficult areas and Lnteniwe cultivation arees.



-43-                        ANNEX I
Table 9
Page 1
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT.II
Recruitment of Staff by Year
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90
PLAA
New
- one PLAA per       yearly     407       98      267         -         -
Panchayat
- additional PLAA                -        -        -          78        -
cumulative   407      505      772        850      850
JTA
- Existing            yearly      103      31        63        -         -
Nev                   n         34        3       28         15        -
cumulative   137      171      262        277      277
JT
- Existing            yearly       45      15        29        -         -
-New                                5      -          5        -         -
cumulative    50       65       99         99       99
AADO
- Existiug            yearly        5       3         3        -         -
cumulative     5        8       11         11        11
ADO
- Existing            yearly        2       1         2        -         -
- New                  it           3       2         1        -         _
cumulative     5        8       11         11        11
PRODUCTION OFFICER
- New                 yearly       25       9         9        -         -
cumulative    25       34       43         43        43
SMS
- New                 yearly       13       8         6        -
cumulative    13       21       27         27       27
SAEO
-New                  yearly        3       1       -          -         -
cumulative     3        4        4          4         4



-44-
ANNEX 1
Table 9
Page 2
1985/86  1986/87  1987(88  1988/89  1989/90
TRAINING
- New                 yearly       9       2        -         -         -
cumulative     9       11       11        11        11
ENGINEERING
- New                yearly       16       5        -         -         -
cumulative    16       21       21        21        21
ACCOUNTS STAFF
- New                yearly       10       4         1        -         -
cumulative    10       14       15        15        15



-45-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
TRAINING
Training StrateRY
1.      Since the extension service has to improve the quality of farming
practices, training of research and extension staff and farmers would be
such that it imparts the specific information that is needed. The exten-
sion workers work with farmers in teaching specific skills. This implies
that PLAA, JTA and JT must be able to perform all tasks and, likewise, SMS
who train these workers must also be able to perform all these tasks.
Furthermore, trainers of SMS (research workers and senior staff) need to
be acquainted with farming operations and how they are best performed.
2.      In designing appropriate training programs it would be necessary
to identify the skills and knowledge required by farmers to improve their
production. The PLAA would need training in what is to be passed on to
the farmers. The JTA and JT should be able to answer more advanced tech-
nical questions. Research workers have to develop ability to identify
factors limiting farm production in the field. This implies joint farm
visits by research and extension workers.
3.      The project would support a variety of in-service and pre-service
training programs for staff. These are briefly described below.
Panchayat Level Aaricultural Assistants (PLAA)
4.      Pre-service Training.  PLAA would have generally completed about 8
years of schooling. They would be given a 35-day training with emphasis on
practicals and development of skills.
5.      Orientation Training.  All PLAA would receive special training in
extension and T&V system.
6.      Fortnightly Training.  Central to the entire extension approach
and an integral part of it is the fortnightly training session. The
training would be carried out by the SMS and, reviewed by PLAA and his JTA
in the alternate week. PLAA, JTA and JT would attend the fortnightly
training given by the SMS on a specific day, once in two weeks. Most
sessions would be held where there are means for practical application of
lessons taught, viz., a farmer's field, a seed farm, an experimental
station or a training center. Training would cover actual field situa-
tions likely to arise over the next two week period. Time would be
allowed to PLAA to carry out field operations and practicals. During
training, PLAA would have a chance to raise and discuss problems
encountered in the previous fortnight. Representative of Sajha, ADBN, AIC
and Irrigation would be invited to attend part of the session to ensure
coordination of related activities. In the intervening week, PLAA would
meet with their JTA to reviev current problems.



-46-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
7.      Preseason Training.  Prior to each of the two main agricultural
seasons (summer and winter), PLAA would receive a 2-day traiuing covering
the main seasonal crops and practices recommended for them. The training
would be held it two to three convenient groups for each district where
facilities vould be available. ADO and SMS would organize and attend this
session. The training would initiate the extension campaign for the
coming season.
8.      Suecial Short Courses.  PLAA would be giveu training in particular
disciplines/crops which are of special importance to their areas.
Junior Technical Assistants an Junior Technicians (JTA/JT)
9.      Pre-service Training. JTA and JT would have received one year and
two year basic training respectively in the Institute of Agricultural
Sciences, Rampur. A few JT would have been promoted from JTA.
10.     Orientation Tra,ining.  All JTA and JT would receive special train-
ing in extension methodology and T&V system.
11.     Fortnigbtly Trainint.  JTA and JT would attend all training ses-
sions of their PLAA. They would be given extra training by SMS to develop
greater subject matter efficiency.
12.     Preseason Train .  JT  and JT would participate in the 2-day
preseason training.
13.     Special Short Courses.  Selected JTA and JT would be given spe-
cialized training for a week in particular crops and disciplines which
are of importance to their area of operation.
Subiect Hatter Specialists (SMS)
14.     Pre-service Training.  SES would generally be university
graduates. Some of them would have post-graduate qualifications.
15.     Orientation Training.  All SMS would receive special training in
T&V extension methodology.
16.     In-service Training.  SMS would participate in the preseason
training, bimonthly workshop and specialized short courses.
(a) Preseason Training. SMS would participate in the 2-day
preseason training prior to the main cropping season.



-47-
ARNM 2
*          Page 3
(b)  Bimonthly Workshop.  To provide effective training to PLAA,
JTA and JT once every two weeks, SM would have to be up to
date in their area of specialization and ensure that training
has a practical bias. For this purpose, the SMS would par-
ticipate in bimonthly workshop once every two months at the
Regional Research Station.
(c)  Special Short Courses.  In order to build up professional
competence of SXS it is considered necessary to provide them
opportunities for special training in research institutions
within the country.
Administrative Staff
17.     Orientation Training.  All supervisory personnel would undergo
training in extension methodology and T&V system. Their specific roles
vould be explained in detail.
Responsibilities
18.     The Project Coordinator, in consultation with Deputy Directors
General, Research and Extension and other appropriate staff, would be
responsible for planning and organizing all training programs.  A summary
of the training activities is as under:
Training                                      Parti-
Activity      Venue     Frequency  Duration  cipants   Trainers   OrRanizers
Pre-service   RIC       As 45       35 days   PLAA      RRS Staff  DOAlProject
(PLAA)                  needed                recruits             Coordinator
Fortnightly   within    26x year    1 day    PLAA       SMS        ADO, AADO
(PIAA)        district                        JTA, JT              SMS
Bimonthly     RRS        6x year    1 or 2  All SMS, RRS Staff  Project
Workshop                             days    ADO and   DOA, 100   Coordinator,
(SMS)                                         AADO of              ROO, (DDG)
region               Research
Preseason     within     2x year    3 days  PLAA        SMS, ADO, ADO, SHS
(PIAA)        district                                  ROO,
Research
Staff
Preseason     district   2x year    3 days   JTA, JT   SMS, ADO, ADO, SNS
(JXr/JT)                                                ROO,
Research
Staff



-48-
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Training                                       Parti-
Activity      Venue      Frequency  Duration  ciiants   Trainers   Organizers
Special       RRS/        2z year   5-7 days  PLAA       Research   Regional
Short         RTC                              JTA, JT   Staff,      Project
Courses                                                  ROO, SMS   Coordinator
Special       RRS/       As needed  5-7 days  SES        Research   DDG
Short         Ihumal-                          Senior    Staff, &   (Research),
Courses       tar                              Staff     other       Project
Institu-   Coordinator
tions
Project       District  As needed    2 days All          Project    Project
Orientation                                    District  Coordi-    Coordinator/
Staff/    nator       SAEO
SAEO
Region/   As needed    2 days  Senior    Project    Project
Katzmdnu                        Staff      Coordi-    Coordinator/
nator      SAEO



-49-                                                         ANNEX 3
Table 1
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT 11
Implmentation Schedule
FINANCIALWVA       F|86                           FY87              FYU        |       FY89               FY90
PROJECI 'EAR                     _       1_ 2                       3                                     5
CALENDARYAR           1965              1966               1967               1998              1989           1990
_UARTU    I   2 3 13 4    51  2   3  4    1   2tl      1 3   A    I   2   3         4 1    2   3   4    1   2
ILWVORKS-
Soloection & A=)ontment df AtChilect
Site SeIection                             m         -T
Desig DeveIoxnent
Pr o,orion oTendeGs                   I              -   -                           1-
Contraict Awora & Appowoad-                                                                         -    -
Cotxaa &  I              _   _       :      _157
Con leCons5runcon                                                        -o *                                     7-
11CLES& EQUIPMENW                      I                  I
Pleoe Let of EcMAIome 
Pe,oroaTenaero                           1               _ o 
Cort*act Award & Ao l,oo                   ;              =                                     -
Pu:hme Velmcies                                          j65o    1          1451              1 112
PACse Equinent                                                                  I          - .
I-=REMWBJAL STAI                                                 .        _
Acopointment ot Stcf
I    3:
- ADO                                          3                1 2
- Sh                                           1 38                           __
- JT                                                                            5
- JTA                               |                             3            28            - t
-PLAA                                    4FO | 7               05           207!           78
0                 2
T- TnV Staff                     |   |                                                                              Wa|  B LL  25:55
-Eng reerwV Stof>                                               4       i i                  _   
Woric 83or.- - 25855



-50-
ANNEX 3
Table 2
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
US$ Million
IDA Fiscal Year                   Disbursement
and Semester                Semester      Cumulative
1986    1st                    0.1            -
2nd                   0.2            0.3
1987    1st                    0.3           0.6
2nd                   0.4            1.0
1988    1st                    0.6           1.6
2nd                   1.0            2.6
1989    1st                    1.0           3.6
2nd                    1.0           4.6
1990    lot                    1.3'          6.1
2nd                   0.6            6.7
1991    1st                    0.5           7.2



-51-
ANNEX 4
Table 1
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
Economic Analysis
(NRs. '000)
Benefits
Incremental        Total Cost                             Present
Extension and      Discounted    Discount    Benefits    Value of
Year     Training Costs     at 50%         Factor      Achieved    Benefits
1           13,745           9,127          0.664        -            -
2           31,752           14,098         0.444        10         0.044
3           35,102          10,390          0.296        30         0.088
4           26,770            5,274         0.197        60         0.118
5           12,332            1,615         0.131        80         0.105
6           12,332            1,073         0.087        90         0.078
7-20        12,332           2.096          0.170       100         0.170
43,673                                 0.603
The annual incremental value of crops (1981 prices) required from year 7
onwards to achieve a 50% rate of return is
NRs. 43.673 M or NRs. 72 M
.603
Present                    Present
Present   Yearly        Prices of    Yearly Value
Yield     Production    Crops         of Crops
Crop           Area (ha)   Kx/ha      M tons        NRslton       NRs M
Paddy           628,000    1,900        1.19         2,836  i       3,375.0
Wheat           195,490    1,300        0.25         3,873 ./         968.0
Maize            90,031    1,700        0.15         3,207 7J         481.0
Other Crops 1/  124,000      600        0.07         5,500 3/         385.0
5,209.0
1/ Pulses and Oilseeds.
2/ See Table 2.
3/ Farmgate prices have been used as these crops are not traded.



-52-
ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 2
To obtain NUs. 72 X, all yields aust increase by 72   or 1.382 on all cropped
5,209
area or 2.76X on 50% cropped area. Yield increases vould thus be:
All Cropped      502 Cropped
Area (kaIha)     Area (kglha)
Paddy            26.22             52.44
Wheat            17.94             25.88
Maize            23.46             46.92
Other Crops       8.28             16.56



-53-
ANNEX 4
Table 2
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
Economic Price BuilC-up
Paddy/Rice    Maize    Wheat
Projected Average World Market Price 1/          286          116      152
1985-90 (US$/ton)
Adjustment for Quality Differentials 2/          -28X          -        -
(factor) and bags (US$/ton)
Adjusted Projected Price                         206          116      152
Freight FOB Calcutta                             +25          +30      +30
Price FOB Calcutta                               231          146      182
Clearing, forwarding and bandling from           +40          +40      +40
Calcutta to Project Area
Wholesale Price in Project Area                  271          186      222
Equivalent NRs.                                5,014        3,441    4,107
Domestic Transport/Handling from                -225         -171     -171
Wholesale Point or Mill
(NRs/ton x SCF) 31
Processing Ratio                                  64%         100X     100%
Processing Cost (NRs/ton x SCF) 3/              -166           -        -
Transport, Handling to/from Farmgate             -63          -63      -63
(NRs/ton x SCF) 3/
Farmgate Economic Price of Paddy               2,836        3,207    3,873
(NRs/ton rounded)
1/ Source: IBRD Commodity Price Forecasts, December 1984.
Rice : Thai, milled 5% broken FOB Bangkok
Maize: US No 2, yellow, FOB Gulf Ports
Wheat: Canadian No. 1, Western Red Spring, in store Thunder Bay.
2/ Since most of the rice produced is traded locally with a high content of
brokens (28%), price is assumed to be 28% lower.
31 SCF = 0.9.



-54-
ANNEX 5
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL MlTENSION PROJECT II
Related Document Available in the Proiect File
1. Nepal - Agricultural Extension and Research Project II:
Project Proposal Report. R.C. Hishra, Consultwat.



-55-
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT 11
Extension Organization
DkectorGeneralL
| of Agdcullure   1
l              _ _    ~~~~~~~~ Coordinator 
Regiwa DbecSor_ -~_
REGIONS (5)                                                                 /
Agdcultural 
DISIRICIS (11)                            Development                                |        Teon
qOCENERS (56)                                 Sub-Center
Jurior Technician
Juuner Technic                   Legend:
Assistant                               Lvc  vdK
(277)                        _  _  _  IntrmTation & Liaison
P.LA.A (850)
9 Wairds
Wodd Bark-25853



-56-
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EMTENSION PROJECT 11
Unkoges Between Research and Extension
_  X ~~~~~~~~~~T**I                                                                       D.De L--r.
conw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tto
s ntd                              U         an
;IUne omtn &Commlonc
R.gnWald Bank-2584
SAEA



F._-fl-*s._, q                                                                                               N E PA L
.3                 " 0                2...                                              AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT  JI  30'
(Pet           3,                                      ' +                                                                                       Protect Districts
SAJHA4                                   " 1, u?E 7/?    Project Year I
/I      '                                                                                        /I1 ,, *g-g VMSL                              ;4   Protect Y*or 2
i-  '       Project Yeor 3
';           I       .Oi           jqA       I)         !                                                                             Ongoing Projet Districts
9o-                                                                                      Development Region                  Existing Research and
S  ~            x                                                           ii                    -lonS                   <                     ...... ~ 
EA ti     I                      DOtA                           .                                      Boundaries                          Training Facilities;
.11r  94w.C  N                   ci       ..r~O                                     District Baouidaries           *    Xisumatitor Research Station
~~ WSVn~~~~y ~JAJA  IIC
.q           N  ....~~~~~~~           -    -  ~~Zonal Boundaries               SE   Regianni Research Stations
a                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries  IL  Research Sub-stations
r-¼                                   -         /)a   Regional Training Centers
I 0 p 4.                                             I        SAUW
25o,                                                 xo . o  N                         "                                                                A.   / A   K
28-
1,0M*.*~assOlusj                                       .    -     AIflt               B; A  08
TI
I           _A                                                           I                                                           H  UV                     I I   p           A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o   20        40        60        t1OO                                        A
~ffl 'W 'UtA frt PrvaelbCamt Ora4ik- "g UteataflM. ka to ra..
irte Ci%av, r .h.wui  aud aa tw wh Is-ICSnW 1w   VW Paws
a.  bow dajm ADM, ow .t"W a &a,  ucmw n n& m atgr  co &W  nsra.a






