Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rewot No. P-3982-NEP
4                                   REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONJAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 7.4 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR AN
5                               AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
March 7, 1985
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be diselosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
NRe 1.0 - 1S$0.054
US$1.0 - NRs 18.5
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADO      - Assistant Agricultural Development Officer
ADBN      - Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
ADO       - Agricultural Development Officer
AIC       - Agricultural Inputs Corporation
CTC       - Central Technical Committee
DDG       - Deputy Director General
DG        - Director General
DOA       - Department of Agriculture
DTC       - District Technical Committee
EPAD      - Evaluation and Program Analysis Division
JT        - Junior Technician
JTA       - Junior Technical Assistant
MOA       - Ministry of Agriculture
NFC       - Nepal Food Corporation
PLAA      - Panchayat Level Agricult-"al Assistant
SAEO      - Senior Agricultural Extension Officer
SMS       - Subject Matter Specialist
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
:



FOR OMCIAL UsE ONLY
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
Credit and Project Summary
.
Borrower:       Kingdom of Nepal
*         Amount:          SDR 7.4 million (US$7.2 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:  The project is the second phase of an IDA-supported
introduction of the Training and Visit (T&V) extension system
in Nepal. This phase would reorganize and strengthen
agricultural extension services in 11 administrative
districts.in the Terai with the objective of achieving early
and sustainable improvement in agricultural productivity.
The project would aim to establish a T&V extension
infrastrucuture which would promote the adoption of low-cost
and labor-intensive agricultural practices, and sound
irrigation water management, thus facilitating better
cropping patterns, greater crop diversification and more
efficient fertilizer and water usage. The project would also
provide for training of staff and monitoring and evaluation
of project activities. Given association experience with the
first project and the considerable expertise developed in
introducing the T&V system in Nepal and other countries in
the region, no major risks are anticipated. Moreover, the
second phase builds upon an existing extension structure, the
incremental cost per hectare and per farm family is low and,
therefore, even small production increases would generate
high returns.  Risks arising out of extension staff
*                          management have been minimized by providing that all staff
would faLl under the administrative control of a single
government agency.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
katirted Costs:                                        -----Us$ Millions--
Proiect CouDOnent              Local   Foxeija   Total
Civil Works                       1.3       1.3      2.6
Vehicles and Equipment            0.2      0.8       1.0
Incremental Staff                 1.6       -        1.6
Incremental Operating Cost        0.5      0.3       0.8
Training                          0.4       -        0.4
Monitoring and Evaluation         0.1        -       0.1
TOTAL BASE COSTS            40        2.4       6A.
Contingencies
Physical contingencies         0.4      0.3       0.7
Price contingencies             9 A.              IA
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         5.3       3.2       8.51/
..m      =mm       m.m
-- US$ Millions--
Financing Plan:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                               4.0      3.2       7.2
HNG                               1.3       -        1.3
TOTAL                       5.3       3.2       8.5
Umm       mum      mIMM
Eatimated
Disbursements:                                     IDA FY
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY8    FY90   FY91 V
Annual        0.3    0.7    1.6    2.0    2.1   05
Cumulative    -      1.0    2.6    4.6    6.7    7.2
Rate of Return:       50 percent
Appraiaal Report:    NEPAL-Agricultural Extension Project II,
Report No. 5096-NEP, dated March 6, 1985
^/ Includes US$56,000 of duties and taxes.
/  One semester.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 7.4 MILLION
TO THE KINCDOM OF NEPAL
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIOti PROJECT II
*         1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
*         development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal in an amount of SDR 7.4 million
(US$7.2 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the
Agricultural Extension Project II.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, Nepal:  Recent Developments and
Selected Issues in Ttade Promotion (Report No. 4663-NEP), was distributed
to the Executive D.rectors on October 19, 1983. The principal features and
recent performance of the economy are described below. Country data are
shown in Annex r.
3.      Nepal is one of the least-developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at US$170 (1983) and health and education
standards are below the average for South Asia: life expectancy at birth
is only about 46 years; infant mortality, about 145 per thousand; and adult
literacy, only 19 percent. The population, estimated to be 15.8 million
(1983), grew at a rate of about 3.3 percent per year between FY75 and FY83.
About 94 percent of the population live in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land (356 per sq km) has
reached very high leveLs, and cultivation has been extended on to marginal
lands and forests.  Forests have been denuded further to meet the growing
demand for fuelwood, on which Nepal depends for over 90 percent of its energy
consumption, mostly for household cooking and heating. Because of deforesta-
tion and excessive grazing on the hills and mountains, with high rainfall,
there is accelerated soil erosion leading to silting of rivers, downstream
flooding and loss of agricultural productivity all along.
5.      Agriculture, largely rainfed, still accounts for nearly 60 percent
of Nepal's CDP and 80 percent of merchandise exports, and provides the main
l/ Substantially unchanged from the Agricultural Manpower Project
(Report No. P-3900-NEP), of November 20, 1984.



-2-
sourc: of livelihood to over 90 percent of the population. Crop production
accounts for about 60 percent of agricultural output, livestock for 30
percent, and forestry for 10 percent. Paddy is the principal food crop
(planted on about half of the total cropped area), followed by maize, wheat,
millet and barley. Cash crops (oilseeds, jute, sugarcane and tobacco) are
grown on about 10 percent of the cropped area. About 15 percent of total
rural income arises from non-agricultural activities, of which the cottage
industry sub-sector is one of the more important, generating employment for
over one million people an a part-time basis.
6.      Apart from agricultural land, Nepal's only other important
exploitable resources are hydropower and tourist attractions. The exploita-
tion of the vast hydropower resources beyond that required to satisfy the
country's own power demand, however, will depend crucially on Nepal's ability
to enter complex financial, exploitation and export agreements with neighbor-
ing countries. The tourism sector, based primarily on Nepal's mountain
environment and its rich cultural heritage, has been dynamic, though it
accounts for only about 1 percent of CDP.  Tourism now provides about 20
percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings. About 60 percent of
earnings from tourism are retained in Nepal.
7.      Following centuries of self-imposed isolation, efforts to develop the
economy of Nepal began in the mid-1950s against extremely heavy odds. The
country had virtually no physical infrastructure, an ancient administrative
system, and very limited educational and health services. The resource base
is relatively narrow and its development hindered by the difficult topography
and landlocked position. Against this background, Nepal's primary develop-
ment objective for 20 years, between 1955 and 1975, was to build basic
infrastructure and lay the groundwork for future economic growth. The
country has made good progress in pursuit of that objective. It now has a
basic road network linking many economic centers. Kathmandu and a few other
towns have basic utilities and public transport. Schools have been built for
almost half of the primary school age children and there are a number of
secondary schocls and a nationaL university. A rudimentary hospital system,
including rural health posts, has been built. Some progress has also been
made in establishing the institutional framework for agricultural and
industrial development, including extension and research activities, finan-
cial institutions and industrial enterprises. Yet in all these areas, the
country has a long way to go to achiieve a level of development comparable
to other developing countries; for example, public and private institutions
in Nepal must continue to expand and upgrade essential physical facilities,
acquire the necessary expertise in handling economic and financial affairs,
build up adequate technical and managerial cadres, and establish merit-based
systems of personnel management.
8.      The Fifth Plan (FY76-FY8O) marked a shift in development objectives,
with increased emphasis being placed on acceleration of economic growth,
employment creation, and raising the living standards of the population.
These objectives have been reiterated in the Sixth Plan (FY81-FY85).



-3-
Moreover, the stated strategy of the Sixth Plan appropriately (a) accords
high priority to developing agriculture, small-scale industries and Nepal's
abundant water resources; (b) stresses soil conservation and population
control; and (c) emphasizes full utilization of existing infrastructure and
alleviation of absorptive capacity constraints, including human resource
development.  The development strategy also calls for increased involvement
of the private sector in agriculture, manufacturing, trade, tourism, con-
struction and transport operations. Investment expenditures, supported by
growing foreign assistance, have increased rapidly over the last two Plans,
from US$146 million (9 percent of GDP) in FY75 to US$481 million (19 percent
of GDP) in FY84 and there have been substantial shifts in the composition of
spending away from transport to agriculture, power and social services. CDP
*        growth, however, has barely kept up with that of population.
9.      Part of the explanation for this stagnation lies in factors beyond
Nepal's control such as the difficult topography and the poor resource base.
But factors within Nepal's control have also contributed. Severe project
implementation problems have been encountered by Government and donors alike
in most sectors of the economy, thereby lowering the rate of growth of
capital formation. In addition, the expected returns on investments which
took place often did not materialize largely because necessary complementary
investments or current spending were lacking, and because of managerial
deficiencies. A good example is the agriculture sector. In the past, insuf-
ficient attention was paid to bringing water down to the farm level and this
was compounded by inadequate support services such as extension and research,
by the lack of timely supplies of improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs
such as credit, by the lack of farm-to-market roads, and by low producer
margins. Future development of irrigation and agriculture would therefore
need to emphasize complementary investments, improvements in agricultural
input supplies and adequate producer margins.
10.     The shortage of funds for current spending needs to be addressed by
further efforts at domestic resource mobilization. In recent years, Nepal's
efforts to mobilize resources have focused on tightening income tax assess-
ment and collection; on discretionary measures largely in the area of
indirect taxes; and on reducing subsidies to public enterprises. While there
has been, as a result, a steady increase in revenues, the tax structure
remains inelastic. Some scope exists for increasing Nepal's tax elasticity
by shifting items on the indirect tax schedules from a specific to an ad
valorem basis. There also seems to be scope for increasing yields from the
land tax, urban property taxes and income taxes.
11.     Over the past two years, several positive steps have been taken to
strengthen public sector management. These steps have included increases in
the traditionally low civil service salaries, establishment of public service
training facilities, simplification of budgetary prccedures accompanied by
stricter enforcement of expenditure accounting, and granting of more autonomy
to public enterprises in matters concerning personnel and pricing policies.
The implementation of these administrative reforms would have to be pursued



-4-
by high-level monitoring of important administrative issues such as appoint-
ment of competent staff, job security and decision-making authority. Also,
public enterprise reform needs to be pursued by measures aimed at reducing
costs and increasing efficiency. In this regard, the Government has taken
initial steps, subjecting public enterprises to increased competition from
the private sector through liberalization of licensing in industry, transport
and small-scale hydropower generation. At the same time, the Government has
involved the private sector in the ownership and control of some public
enterprises through the sale of shares to private investors.
12.     Because of slow economic growth, Nepal's balance of payments has been
characterized by widening trade deficits, partly offset by surpluses from
invisibles. The current account deficit (averaging US$100 million annually
during FY80-FY82) has traditionally been more than matched by inflows of
official grants and concessional loans (averaging US$128 million annually
during FY80-FY82), leading to overall surpluses. However, in FY83, the
overall balance of payments turned negative, and since then, Nepal's gross
resources have been falling rapidly from 3.8 months of import coverage in
July 1983 to 2.7 months in July 1984 and to two months in December 1984.
13.     To sustain and further develop its economy, Nepal must mobilize
additional free foreign exchange through export promotion and efficient
import substitution. Improving agricultural production, rural incomes and
food distribution within the country is a major way of doing so, if only to
avoid the need to import and distribute large quantities of foodgrains in the
future. Agricultural development also remains the key to a gradual expansion
of Nepal's traditional merchandise exports. In addition, development of
energy resources is a major means to strengthening the balance of payments
by reducing the need to import fuel and opening up an export potential.
Recently, Nepal has legislated a wide range of fiscal and administrative
incentives for industrial investors and exporters, particularly in the
private sector. The implementation of these incent.ves in a cost-effective
manner, and the alleviation of the severe transport and transit constraints
facing the country's trade sector, must constitute essential elements of a
trade promotion strategy for Nepal.
14.     Nepal is faced with highly challenging prospects and tasks in
addressing its multiple long-term development problem3. While it attempts
to mobilize domestic resources to finance about 40-50 percent of development
expenditures, external assistance, at concessional terms, will continue to be          X
a vital factor in financing investment and effecting economic growth.  In the
last three years, aid commitments to Nepal have averaged about US$250 million
per year, almost entirely in the form of grants and concessionaL credits with
grant elements in excess of 70 percent. Aid disbursements grew from about
US$110 million in FY80 to an estimated US$220 million in FY84. Nearly 70
percent of total aid disbursements have come from members of the Nepal Aid
Group, formed in 1976 and now comprising eight DAC countries and four multi-
lateral agencies.



-5-
15.     At the end cf FY84, Nepal's official foreign debt outstanding
amounted to about US$350 million. As virtually all loans have been
concessional, debt-service payments, including payments to the IMF, have
remained small in relation to exports of goods and services. In FY84, debt-
service payments amounted to about US$10 million, equivalent to 3 percent of
exports of goods and services. Over the medium term, these payments are
projected to remain at less than 5 percent of Nepal's exports of goods and
services.
*                                 PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in 1969 with an IDA credit of
*         US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project.  Since then, 36
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$547.7 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide
variety of sectors. Six of these sectors account for about 90 percent of
IDA credits by amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$173.0 million for 14
projects); water supply and sewerage (US$46.8 million for three projects);
power and energy (US$168.0 million for four projects); telecommunications
(US$21.7 million for three projects); highways (US$67.0 million for three
projects); and rural development (US$19.0 million for two projects). The
proposed credit would be the fourth approved in FY85. No Bank loans have
been made to Nepal. IFC made its three investments in Nepal, the first in
FY75 (US$3.1 million) for the expansion of the Soaltee Hotel project in
Katbmandu, the second in FY82 (DM14.5 million) to Nepal Orind Magnesite
Company for the mining and production of dead burnt magnesite, and a third
approved in FY84, but not yet signed to Nepal Metal Company (DM7.8 million),
a zinc/lead mining and concentrates project. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and IFC operations as of September 30, 1984.
17.     Bank Group lending to Nepal so far has been modest compared to the
country's need for external assistance. The international community has
shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development and, to date, a
shortage of funds has not been a major bottleneck. The main constraint on
the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive
capacity, affecting the pace oi project preparation and implementation. The
*         Bank Group has provided assistance to the Government in project preparation
*         through two Technical Assistance Credits (Cr. 659-NSF and 1379-NEP) and by
acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical assistance projects
financed by IJNDP. Furthermore, the Resident Mission in Kathmandu has had a
significant impact in improving project implementation performance.  As a
result, the rate of disbursements is improving: during FY82, FY83 and FY84,
US$28.5, US$37.4 and US $26.0 million equivalent, respectively, was disbursed
compared to an annual average disbursement of about US$17 million during the
previous five fiscal years. Project completion reports have been prepared
for six projects: First Telecommunications (Cr. 166-NEP), First Highways



-6-
(Cr. 223-NEP), Tourism (Cr. 291-NEP), Birganj Irrigation (Cr. 373-NEP) and
Settlement Pioject (Cr. 505-NEP) and Bhairawa-Lumbini (Cr. 654-NEP).
18.     Over the next several years, our country assistance strategy vill
seak to address Nepal's critical budgetary and balance of payments problems
while coutiuuing our efforts to tackle longer-term developmental and institu-
tional issues (such as public administration inefficiencies, poor project
planning and implementation performance, and high population growth and
scarcities of skilled manpower resources) through a combination of project
lending, technical assistance and economic and sector work.
19.     We intend to introduce a greater focus to our lending, attaching
particular importance to (a) agriculture and forestry; (b) population
control; and (c) education and training.  Agriculture, a main source of
livelihood to some 95% of the population, accounts for as much as 65% of GDP
and 80Z of exports. The primary objective of our lending in this sector is
to increase production with a view to maintaining self-sufficiency in
foodgrains and achieving larger surpluses for exports. To that -ad, we vill
be emphasizing complementary investments aimed at improved supply of inputs
and strengthening of support services to maximize benefits from existing
infrastructure and equipment. In forestry, our principal concern will be to
support reforestation efforts at the community level. These investments in
agriculture and forestry would need to be supplemented by effective programs
to control population growth particularly in the hill areas where a rapidly
growing need for food, fuelvood and fodder is causing a sericus environmental
degradation.  Our operation in population will seek to expand and improve the
family planning service delivery systems. In education and training, our
objectives will be to improve the quality of primary education as well as
increasing the supply of trained technical manpower for greater efficiency in
public administration. Outside these three areas of primary emphasis, our
involvement will be more selective. We intend to maintain an interest in the
power sector which previously absorbed a significant portion of our lending,
but we envisage our future role more as a provider of technical assistance
and a catalyst for mobilizing additional external resources. In transport,
we plan to combine technical assistance through sector work with selected
interventions designed to facilitate regional integration and improved rural
access.
20.     In allocating our resources, our basic approach will be to attempt to
strike a proper balance between the necessary emphasis on quick-and-high
yielding investments (such as in agriculture), which is dictated by Nepal's
precarious budgetary and balance of payments position, and an equally impor-
tant commitment to those sectors where impact cannot be felt immediately but
which nevertheless are critical to the country's long-term development (e.g.,
population and human resource development). We also recognize the need to
deliberately target some of our operations on the poorest and least developed
parts of the country, for example, the hill areas.



-7-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
21.     With farm production and related activities comprising about 60
percent of GDP, agriculture is the key to economic development in Nepal.
Agriculture engages about 90 percent of the population and provides more than
80 percent of all merchandise exports. Only about one sixth of the land area
is available for cultivation of which about 15 percent is irrigated. About
90 percent of the cropped area produces foodgrains, predominantly rice (half
of cropped area), followed by maize, wheat and pulses. Less than 10 percent
of the cropped area is under cash crops, mainly oilseeds, jute, sugarcane and
tobacco.
*          22.      During the seventies, the trend in production of major foodgrains was
not encouraging, except for wheat which increased at an average rate of 9.6
percent per annum. Overall production grew at 1.1 percent annually largely
due to expansion in acreage, while average yields, again with the exception
of wheat, fell at a rate of 0.8-0.9 percent per year. Erratic monsoon condi-
tions and uneven distribution as well as higher cost of fertilizers partly
account for the decline; but, inadequate extension advice and other support-
ing services, cultivation of marginal lands and inadequate price incentives
also contributed to the slow growth.
23.     Nepal's Sixth Plan (1980-85) has given priority to increased food
production in the Hills and the Terai. So far in the Sixth Plan, HMG has
devoted special efforts to increasing the supply and storage of fertilizer,
improving extension services in the Terai, increasing and encouraging the
proper utilization of irrigation, and accelerating the completion of seed and
post-harvest grain preservation projects. These efforts, aided by favorable
monsoons, led to agricultural GDP growth of 10.0 percent in 1980/81 and 3.5
percent in 1981/82. The high growth in 1980/81 was from a base of 1979/81
output, which had been low due to drought. When averaged over the more
normal 1978/79 production base, agricultural growth in 1980/81 was about 2.5
percent, which was still higher than the rate obtained in preceding years.
The highest gross foodgrain production (3.7 million tons) in 1981/82 was 16
percent below the 4.4 million tons required to satisfy the minimum needs of
the population. In 1982/83, Nepal experienced another drought and compared
to the previous year agricultural output declined by an estimated 11 percent.
*           lHowever, 1983184 has been a favorable year with preliminary estimates
*          indicating gross food production of 4.2 million tons, compared to 3.3 million
tons in 1982/83.
Agricultural Institutions
24.     Agricultural development and policy are the shared responsibility of
four ministries: the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Ministry of Forests
and Soil Conservation, the Ministry of Water Resources and the Ministry of
Land Reform. MOA includes the Department of Agriculture (DOA) which is
responsible for promoting production through research, training and



-8-
extension. MOA has also overall responsibility for institutions such as the
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and the Agricultural Inputs
Corporation (AIC). The Director General of Agriculture heads DOA and is
assisted by four Deputy Directors General one each responsible for crop
development, extension and services, horticulture and fisheries, and planning
and administration.
.
25.     Extension.  The Director General of the Department of Agriculture is
assisted by Deputy Director General for extension and services. Extension
activities are represented at the regional level by a Regional Director of               a
Agriculture who supervises district-level extension staff and programs.
Prior to 1975, no systematic approach existed to agricultural extension in
the Terai. This along with numerous other factors (additional respon-
sibilities for extension workers not directly related to extension, centrally
determined and overly-ambitious production targets, concentration by research
workers on expensive and sophisticated farm technology, problems of
logistics, etc.) contributed to the ineffectiveness of extension services.
During the five years succeeding 1975, the training and visit (T&V) extension
system was introduced into six districts of the Terai as a component of five
different IDA-assisted irrigation projects. The projects provided for exten-
sion workers at the panchayat and district level, and a systematic program of
training for staff combined with a schedule of regular field visits. While
responsibility for project implementation and administrative controL over
agricultural extension services was assumed by the Irrigation Department, the
Depa,.rtment of Agriculture provided technical support to extension staff.
This administrative arrangement seriously limited the effectiveness of exten-
sion services.
26.     Research.  Agricultural research is administered by a Deputy Director
General working under the Director General of Agriculture. The research
service operates a total of 52 centers located throughout the country (7 in
the Eastern Region; 25, Central; 10, Western; and 10, Far Western). The
facilities consist of research stations for cereal crops, research centers
for cash crops, and research farms mainly for seed multiplication. The
research service is responsible for providing suitable agricultural technol-
ogy for development of aLl the regions and climatic zones of Nep#l.  Research
programs in the Terai have been strengthened and reorganized under the
IDA-assisted Agricultural Extension and Research Project and Cash Crop
Development Project, and systematic procedures have been established to                  -
strengthen research/extension linkages.
27.     Agricultural Credit.  The Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
(ADBU), was estabLished in 1968 arid has offices in most districts throughout
the country. It is expected to provide the overall credit requirements of
agriculture and agro-based industries, and ensure effective mobilization of
ruraL savings. The Sajha (cooperative) provides short-term production credit
to farmers with funds made available from ADBN for onlending to its members.
More recently, commercial banks have also become involved in agricultural
credit but their volume of lending is small. The standard terms and condi-



-9-
tions of lending by ADBN are: short-term loans, 18 months with a 15 percent
annual interest rate; for medium-term loans, 7 years at 12 percent annual
interest rate; and for Long-term loans, 20 years with an 8 percent annual
interest rate.
28.     Cooperatives.  The Sajha development program was introduced in early
1976 to revitalize the cooperative movement, mobilize local savings, and to
link economic development with political decentralization at the local level.
The objectives of the Sajhas are to provide credit, agricultural inpucs and
s        marketing faciLities, as well as to sell consumer goods (salt, kerosene,
coarse cloth, diesel oil, rice and sugar). At present, one Sajha serves on
an average three to four panchayats. There are 1,170 registered societies,
many of which suffer from poor management and lack of resources.
29.     Agricultural Inpt.s.  The Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC), the
sole government agency responsible for supply of inputs, provides for:
(a) importation and distribution of chemical fertilizers and maintenance of
a buffer stock sufficient for at least one cropping season; (b) collection,
processing, storage and distribution of improved seed and assistance to DOA
in conducting seed muLtiplication programs; (c) procurement and distribution
of agricultural chemicals for plant protection and grain storage; and
Ed) distribution of Locally manufactured agricultural tools and implements
as well as importation and distribution of agricultural machinery. AIC also
produces improved seed through contract growers and is responsible for dis-
tribution of seed produced on government farms. In general, ATC suffers from
a Lack of finance to import fertilizer in time and in adequate quantities.
In recent years about 40 percent of fertilizer imports, largely urea and
complex mixtures, have been obtaine'! in the form of external commodity aid.
The prices of chemical fertilizers soid throughout the country are fixed at a
uniform rate, taking into account the import prices and retail prices in
adjoining border areas with India. The uniform pricing practice implies
subsidization of the cost of fertilizer, particularly to the Hills. However,
the bulk of fertiLizers (90 percent) is consumed in the Terai and the
Kathmandu ValLey.
Agricultural Prices
30.     A principal aim of agricultural pricing policy in Nepal has been to
ensure low and stable food prices for consumers who spend 70 to 80 percent of
their incomes on food.  Producer price policy has aimed at providing input
subsidies and announcing minimum support prices, usually fixed at below the
expected market prices, for major foodgrains and cash crops but keeping in
e.'      mind the need to contain consumer prices.  While fertilizer procurement and
distribution are entirely public sector undertakings in Nepal, the grain
output market is predominantly a private sector operation and public procure-
ment of foodgrains amounts to less than 15 percent of marketed output. The
Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) procures foodgrains in the Terai for distribu-
tion to the deficit areas in the Hills and subsidizes transportation costs to



-10-
the Hills at a differential rate, which increases in direct relation to the
remoteness of the deficit areas.
Experience in Agricultural Extension
31.     Cood progress has been made in several districts (i.e., the irrigated
project districts) over the period 1977-82. Fertilizer consumption increased
by 55 percent in three districts and in other districts by 33 percent.
Foodgrain production has increased in all districts.
32.     In the ongoing Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 1100-NEP), the extension mechanism of regular farm visits by PLAAs and
quality training is being well established. Special courses for SMSs in
training methodology have been organized. Technology r-equiring modest finan-
cial outlays (e.g., seed treatment, timeLy sowing, line sowing of maize and
wheat, interculture operations) is being readily adopted by farmers.
Research/extension linkages are improving in terms of preseason regional
workshops to determine crop recommendations and programs for field trials,
bimonthly workshops for SMSs at research stations, and guidance for SNMS by
researchers. In the Pilot Production Program areas, where special efforts
have been made to coordinate the timelf availability of irrigation, credit,
inputs and advice, annual produccion per hectare inicreased under rainfed
conditions (2.9 to 4.2 tons/ha) and irrigated conditions (4.5 to 6.5 tons/ha)
by adopting advice given by the extension service.
33.     Although funds for agricultural extension were made available in the
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project (Cr. 812-NEP) and the Narayani Zone
Irrigation Project (Cr. 856-NEP), these projects did not adequately provide
for staffing, in-service training, research/extension linkages and technical
supervision which are the key elements of the proposed project.
Nevertheless, given the encouraging results of increased production and
Nepal's intention to cover the whoLe of ;he Terai (20 districts) with
improved extension, HMG has decided to expand extension services into the
remaining six districts of the Terai (Kanchanpur, Kalawi, Bardia, Dang,
Sirha, and Saptari), and consolidate and strengthen agricultural extension
services in the five irrigation project districts of Bara, Parsa, Rautahat,              h
Sunsari and Morang. Thus, the Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 1100-NEP) and the proposed project would provide full coordinated
management and supervision of the extension service under the administrative
responsibility of DOA to 19 districts of the Terai. The twentieth district,
Rupandehi, is fully covered by improved extension under the ongoing
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project Stage II (Cr. 1316-NEP).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.     In the sixth five-year development plan, HMG decided to establish a
unified national extension program in the Terai. During a half yearly review



-11-
in May 1983 of the Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr.1100-NEP),
HMC agreed to a proposal for a second extension project. With the consent of
HMG, the Project Coordinator for the Agricultural Extension and Research
Project Formulated a project outline in October 1983.  Preappraisal of the
project took place in November/December 1983 and appraisal in March 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. on February 15 through 20, 1985.
The Nepalese delegation was led by Mr. P.P. Dahal. A report entitled Nepal,
Staff Appraisal Report, Agricultural Extension Project II (Report No.
5096-NEP) dated March 6, 1985, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.
Project Area
35.     The project area would include six districts (Kanchanpur and Kailali
in the Far Western Region, Bardia and Dang in the Kid-Western Region and
Sirha and Saptari in the Eastern Region) which would receive improved exten-
sion coverage for the first time and five districts of Bara, Parsa and
Ratahat (Central Region) and Sunsari and Morang (Eastern Region) previously
covered by IDA-assisted irrigation projects. The 11 districts cover an area
of 19,000 sq km with a cultivated area of 780,000 ha. Total population in
the project districts is about 3.5 million with 490,000 farm families living
in 772 panchayats (averaging 635 farm families and 1,000 ha cultivated area
per panchayat). The average farm size is 1.6 ha. The same general agricul-
ture production pattern as elsewhere in the Terai is to be found in the
project districts.
36.     The pattern and structure of land ownership in the Terai is a com-
bination of individually owned farms and tenant-operated farms; exact figures
on the distribution of ownership is not available, however it is estimated at
about 40 and 60 percent, respectively. LanL reforms (ceilings on amount of
land owned, and greater tenance security, etc.) which are currently being
implemented throughout the country have reduced absenteeism amongst
landowners. Consequently, farmers have started to make a greater effort to
earn more from the limited land they now have. Experience with the ongoing
project indicates that the structure and pattern of land ownership has not
affected the adoption of improved farm technology being introduced by the T&V
system.
Project Objective
37.     The objective of the project is to improve agricultural production
through the adoption of low-cost and labor-intensive agricultural practices,
proper irrigation water management and appropriate crop varieties and level
of fertilizer usage.
Project Description
38.     The project would reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension
services in the eleven administrative districts of the Terai. The extension



-12-
service would provide for the development of a vell-trained and technically
competent staff organization which vould in turn provide the institutional
framework into which all agricultural development programs could be
incorporated. The five-year project would comprise:
(a)  ReorAanization and StrenAthenini of Agricultural Extension
Services. Provision of additional staff, offices, housing,
vehicles, equipment, and staff training designed to consolidate
the reorganization;
(b)  Proiect Manalement.  Strengthening and improving project
management and supervision at Headquarter and at the Regional
level; and
(c)  Proiect MonitorinA and Evaluation.
Orianization and Implementation
39.     Project activities would be carried out over approxima'tely five years
by the Department of Agriculture (DOA). Overall responsibility for project
implementation would be vith the Director General of Agriculture assisted at
headquarters by two Deputy Directors General, one each for crop development
aud exteusion and services. At the regional level, the Regional Director of
Agriculture would continue to be responsible for the day-to-day operations of
all district extension activities falling under his jurildiction. Each
Regional Director (Eastern, Central, Western and Mid-Western Regi.on) would be
assisted by a Senior Agricultural Extension Officer (SABO) who would specifi-
cally supervise and support extension activities. SAEO Mid-Western Region
would also be responsible for extension activities in the newly created Far
Western Region. Suitably qualified and experienced SAEO. for Eastern,
Central and Western Regions would be appointed by December 31, 1985 and SAEO
for Mid aud Far-Western Regions by August 31, 1986 (Section 3.07(b) and (c),
draft Development Credit Agreement). Prior to negotiations EMG confirmed the
following: (a) in order to provide an additional inceutive to PLAA's, their
remuneration would be increased from Rs. 150 to Rs. 300 per month effective
July 16, 1985, which is the beginning of HMG's next financial year and make
necessary provisions in their FY85/86 budget which starts on July 16, 1985;
(b) the headquarters of the Project Coordinator would continue to remain in
Kathmandu; and (c) all necessary actions had been taken to transfer
administrative control over agricultural staff under irrigation projects
(except an area of 10,000 ha under the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project -
Stage II) from the Ministry of Water Resources to the Ministry of
Agriculture.
40.     Since extension activities should be continued after the completion
of the proposed project, all incremental staff positions established would be
maintained by EKG after the project period (Section 3.08(b), draft DCA). In
all, about 167 additional professional staff would be appointed over the
project period. HMG and IDA would review the adequacy of staff by March 31,



-13-
1987, in particular Panchayat LeveL Agricultural Assistants, and, if
necessary, additional staff would be employed (Section 3.06(c), draft DCA).
41.     At the national level, the existing Coordination and Progress Review
Committee, chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would
*        ensure coordination of all project activities.
Agricultural Extension
42.     Agricultural staff would be reorganized, as stated above, under a
single line of command from the Director General of Agriculture to the
Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistant (PLAA). An Agricultural Development
Officer and an Assistant Agricultural Development Officer would be respon-
sible for extension work in each district, assisted by two Subject Matter
Specialists (SMS) and an adequate number of Junior Technicians and Junior
Technical Assistants. Full-time PLAAs would visit farmers once every fort-
night to give them advice on farming practices best suited to their specific
conditions. PLAAs would select contact farmers within their area of
operation. Contact farmers would be from all levels of village society and
wouLd be selected for their potential to cooperate with and continue to the
extension service. Intensive pre-service and in-service training would be
provided to all extension staff at regular intervals. For this purpose, the
new training centers at Parwanipur and Jhumka would be strengthened by way of
staff, equipment and furniture. The project would provide for 40 Production
Officers (POs), one for each 1,000 ha area (in 2-5 compact blocks), to coor-
dinate timely supply of seed, fertilizer, credit and irrigation and organize
a production program. POs would also be responsible for preparing an action
pLan for the 1,000 ha area and helping farmers to prepare individual farm
plans.
43.     The intensive program of visits to farmers would require extension
staff to live close to their work area, and suitable modest housing would be
provided to them under the project. Forty training subcenters would be
constructed each with a small office for the Junior Technician and a training
hall, where the training would be held. Additional provision would be made
for office accommodation for the four SAEOs and a few district Agricultural
Officers. By June 30, 1986, HMG would have selected the sites for office
buildings and residences and informed the Association of the progress made
(Section 3.09, draft DCA).  To ensure mobility of extension staff, transpor-
t.        tation would be provided to the SAEOs, districts and subcenters.  Loans and
allowances would be made available to JTAs for the purchase and maintenance
of bicycles, to facilitate constant field contact with PLAAs and farmers
(Section 3.10, draft DCA).
Coordination Between Research and Extension
44.     Under the Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr.l100-NEP)
and the Cash Crop Development Project (Cr.1339-NEP), the applied research
facilities in the Terai have been improved. Research efforts have been



-14-
decentralized through establishment of regional research stations and
research substations. Strengthening of linkages between extension and
research would be ensured through association of research staff in training
SMSs once every two months and in planning adaptive trials on farmers'
fields. In addition, research staff would help conduct the pre-service
training of PLAA and in-service training of all extension staff.  These                 0
linkages would be further strengthened by the establishment of a District
Technical Committee (DTC) in each of the eleven project districts. DTCs
would be chaired by the district ADO, with SMSs, research workers, local
staff of irrigation department and farmers' representatives as members.  DTCs
would be established in all project districts by December 31, 1985 and meet
at least twice a year (Section 3.07(a), draft DCA). Each DTC will review
adoption rates of recommended practices, and will advise on recommendations
on research priorities, adaptive triaL needs and intensive work in irrigated
areas. Pre-season regional workshops will be held at the Regional Research
Stations for research workers and agricultural staff of the region, twice a
year, before each cropping season, to discuss the recommendations of DTCs and
develop appropriate programs for research, adaptive trials and crop
production. The Central Technical Committee (CTC), chaired by the Director
General of Agriculture, established under the Agricultural Extension and
Research Project, would review and approve or suggest modifications on the
recommendations of regional workshops.
Strengthening of Agricultural Engineering Division
45.     The Agricultural Engineering Division of DOA has undertaken construc-
tion of the civil works under the Agricultural Extension and Research Project
and has done a commendable job. In order to enable the division to carry out
its increased responsibilities under the project, HMG would strengthen it by
providing one executive engineer, four assistant engineers and an overseer
for each project district, necessary equipment, and the services of a con-
sulting architect to prepare estimates of civil works.
Monitoring and Evaluation
46.     The Evaluation and Program Analysis Division (EPAD) of MOA would
continue to monitor and evaluate project activities and benefits. By
July 31, 1987, EPAD would complete benchmark studies for the six new project
districts (Section 3.11(a), draft DCA), and monitor all project activities
on a semiannual basis, and carry out monitoring and evaluation surveys in a
form acceptable to IDA (Section 3.11(b), draft DCA).
Cost and Financing
47.     The total project cost is estimated at US$8.5 million equivalent,
including US$56,600 of duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$3.2 million equivalent, about 38 percent of total project
cost. The proposed credit of US$7.2 million equivalent would finance all
foreign exchange cost (US$3.2 million) and US$4.0 million of local cost,



amounting to about 85 percent if total project costs net of duties and taxes.
Local cost financing is Lecommended in view of the country's limited capacity
to generate resources. HMG would make adequate budgetary provision each year
and arrange for timely release of funds.
Procurement
48.     Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Procurement Method           Total
Project Component            ICB     LCB      Others      NA    Cost
…  ------ US$ million------------…--
Civil Works                     -     3.60        -         -      3.60
(3.20)                       (3.20)
Vehicles, Equipment            0.96   0.24        -         -       1.20
and Furniture               (0.96) (0.18)       -         -     (1.14)
Incremental Staff and           -      -          -        3.00    3.00
Operating Costs                                         (2.06)  (2.06)
Training                        -       -         -        0.60    0.60
(0.60)  (0.60)
Monitoring and Evaluation       -       -         -        0.20    0.20
______    ______  ______  (0.20)  (0.20)
Total                      0.96   3.84        -        3.80    8.50
(0.96) (3.38)              (2.86)  (7.20)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the
Credit.
49.     All civil works (US$3.6 million) would be small and wideLy dis-
tributed throughout the project area and would not be suitable for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Accordingly, conr ruction of buiLd-
ings would be let on the basis of local procedures satisfactory to Lhe
Association and in which foreign bidders would have an opportunity to
participate. Vehicles and equipment (US$0.96 million) would be grouped in
appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines, s:th domestic bidders receiving a preference in bid evaluation of
15 percent or import duty whichever is lower. Where contracts are valued at
less than US$30,000 and aggregating to US$200,000, items would be procured
under local bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association. Items such
as furniture, books, training material, and office requirements (US$0.24
million) would be purchased under local bidding procedures. Bidding docu-
ments for civil works contracts costing US$100,000 or more, and for vehicles,



-16-
equipment, and other goods and services costing US$50,000 or more would be
submitted to IDA review prior to invitation to bid.
Disbursement, Accounts and Audit
50.     Disbursements would be completed over a period of 5-1/2 years.
Disburoement would be made against:  (a) 81 percent of expenditures on civil
works; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditure on directly imported vehicles
and equipment, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally
manufactured goods, and 75 percent local expenditures for other goods 
procured locally; (c) 48 percent of total expenditure on total staff salaries
and allowances, equivalent to 75 percent of incremental staff salaries,
disbursed at a declining scale of 100 percent expenditures on total salaries
and allowances in FY86, 70 percent in FY87, 50 percent in FY88, 30 percent in
FY89, and 20 percent in FY90; (d) 45 percent of expenditure on project
operating costs, and (e) 100 percent of expenditure on training, and monitor-
.ng and evaluation.
51.     HMC would prepare and present to IDA administrative and financiaL
data regarding progress of the project, including procurement of goods and
services, civil works, expenditure and disbursements (Section 4.01, draft
DCA). HMG would maintain separate accounts of the project and furnish to the
Association, as soon as possible but in any case not later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of financial statements
for the year (Section 4.01(b) and (c), draft DCA).
52.     To ensure that audit covenants are complied within time, IDA has
assisted the Financial Comptroller General HMG in preparing a Project
Accounting Manual. The manual facilitates the preparation of commitment
statements once every four months giving details of funds released, expendi-
ture incurred and reimbursement claimed from IDA. The preparation of commit-
ment statements is a condition of further release of funds from HMG to the
project. This procedure would also help in the timely release of funds to
project entities and preparation of an annual consolidated financial state-
ment to enable the Auditor General to complete his audit of project accounts.
The manual has recently been introduced with satisfactory results in two
ongoing IDA-assisted projects: the Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Cr. 1100-NEP) and Hill Food Production Project (Cr. l1Ol-NEP).
Special Account
53.     In order to facilitate prefinancing of project expenditures under
categories (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) (para 4B), a Special Account (SA)
would be opened by HMG in the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). An initial deposit of
US$300,000 (SDR 310,000) would be made in SA by IDA upon receipt of a direct
payment application from HMG supported by appropriate evidence that such an
account (SA) has been opened. Payments out of the special account would be
made according to procedures agreed at negotiations. HMG would furnish to IDA



-17-
requests for replenishment of SA at specified intervals. On che basis of
such requests, IDA would withdraw from the Credit and deposit in SA such
amounts as required to replenish SA but not exceeding the amount of payments
made for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit would be withdrawn by IDA
from the Credit under the respective categories (para 48), and in respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such a deposit.  HMG would furnish to IDA such evidence
showing that payment was made for eligible expenditure. Recovery of the
initial deposit by IDA would commence when the unwithdrawn amounts in the
Credit had been reduced to double the initial deposit to the account.
Recovery would be by reimbursing only 50% of the amounts claimed during the
recovery period, until the advance has been fully recovered. HMC would
refund to IDA any amount outstanding in SA and which will not be required to
r        cover further payments for eligible expenditures.  HMG and IDA have agreed on
establishing a Special Account and operating procedures (Section 2.02(b),
draft DCA).
Benefits and Risks
54.     The project would directly benefit about 490,000 farm families.
Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is difficuLt
since it is not possible to determine what proportion of benefits are due to
extension alone and what are due to additional purchased inputs and other
factors. In practice, it is the combination of a number of factors, with
extension pLaying the role of a catalyst, that brings the desired benefits.
It is also difficult to estimate acceptance rates of recommended practices.
However, since the project relies primarily on reorganization and strengthen-
ing of an existing extension structure, the incremental cost is low per
.-ictare and per farm family. Hence, even very smaLl production increases
in the project areas would generate a high rate of return. The project would
generate a 50 percent rate of return if, by 1992, yields of paddy (628,000
ha), maize (90,000 ha), wheat (195,000 ha), pulses (57,000 ha) and oilseeds
(67,000 ha) and which cover about 80 percent of cropped land, increased by
only 52 kg/ha, 47 kg/ha, 26 kg/ha, 17 kg/ha and 17 kg/ha, respectively, over
at least 50 percent of cropped Land, and which requires an increase of 2.76
percent over current yield leveLs of aLl five crops.
55.     All extension staff will be under the administrative control of DOA
and this arrangement will ensure a single line of administrative command thus
reducing the problems of dual control inherent in past arrangements. Staff
turnover at the senior Level are frequent resulting in lack of sustained,
informed and motivated management. This would be overcome by continuous and
close supervision of the project and provision of constant assistance and
encouragement. Other risks are minimal. Experience in the Terai has shown
that where T&V agricultural extension has been introduced farmers response
has been highly encouraging wherever visits by extension workers are made
systematically and PLAAs and JTAs have gained confidence in their profes-
sional ability to introduce improved knowledge and skills. Appropriate



-18-
technology has been evolved for rainfed and irrigated areas and has been
tested and refined to suit different farming situations. Progressive farmers
who have adopted the technology have already obtained yields higher than
average yields. Substantial yield increases are, therefore, possible even in
the process of bringing the production level of average farmers up to that of
the progressive farmers. Research programs in the Terai have already been
strengthened to insure against the risk of technological constraints lowering
anticipated project benefits.
PART V - LECAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.     Special conditior.s of the proposed credit are listed in Section III
of Annex III. A condition of effectiveness is the establishment of the
project special account. As a condition of disbursement, the Borrower would
prepare quarterly commitment statements.
58.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 7, 1985



- 19 -
T A BE IA                                ANNEX I
sPA.                   -SOCIAL tDCAT     DATA S               Page  1 of  5
SPAL                                 %EREICK GRU   (WEIGHMD AwVEaGES) I4
HOST                  O (mS  REczEN  ESTmATE) Lk
RIDCEl          LOW  UEt              MIDDLE INCOS
19 k    1970tk    ESTiMAT             ASIA L PACIrIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
AR  (70005D  SQ. U)
TOTAL                               140.8       140.3        140.8
AGRICULTCRAL                         35.3        36.8         51.2
Cw   C  ATP=  (US)                      60.0        80.0        170.0             273.6                  1091.2
11SE COEsIWE    a  CaPITA
CKUcGns or OIL EqUIVALENT)           3.0        10.0         10.0             272.0                   567.3
VOrSAT    AM PETAL SUTSTE
POPULAT ION*HD-TAR (THOUSN)    9404. 0        11330.0      13423.0
(                   URN  POPUTIO  CE 0l TOTAL)             3.1         3.9          6.4             21.7                    3U.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION LN    2000 (ILL)                                 26.3
STATIONARY 1POPUATION CHILL)                                71.1
POPULATION mIWEDTUB                                          1.9
P                    POPULATION ODunT
PER SQ. I0.                        66.3        80.6        106.7             166.6                   261.9
PER SQ.  . ACSIL LAND             26S.2   l 30.4           363.1             355.5                  1735.1
POPULATIO AGE StRUCTURE (C)
0-1; YTn                           39.1       42.          42.2              33.6                    39.0
15-6 YRS                            7..4       55.0         36.7             59.8                     57.6
'5 AD AV                            3.3         3l.n         3.0               4.3                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                               t.4         1.9          2.6              1.9                      2.1
LUBAN                               4.3         4.2          5.0               4.1                     4.1
CRDDE 3SUM3 RATE (E  TNOUS)          *5.9        46.3         42.9              27.7                    30. 1
CRUX DEATH NATE (PM THOUs)           Z5.6        Z3.0         18.6              10.1                     9.3
GOSS REPROUCTION RATE                 Z.7         2.1          2.9               1.8                     2.0
FAMILY PLANSINC
ACCEPTORS, AUL (TIIOUS)              ..        29.7        223.2
USERS (I or HUIED WO)                ..          ..          7.0               ..                     52.7
TomnAn  uarn.
INnE or FOOD PROD. PUE CAPtA
(1969-71-10o)                       106.0       101.0         83.0             112.S                   123.0
PER CAPrTA SUPPLY oF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUXRENTS)         95.0        96.2         86.0             97.7                    114.:
PROTEIS (GRAS Pm DAY)              51.0        51.0         45.0             56.8                     57.0
OF iUcCH ANIUAL AND PULSE        10.0         9.0          8.0 /c           14.9                    14.1
CH1LD (ACGS 1-4) DEATH RATE         36          27.8         22.0              9.8                      7.2
*L=F EXPECT. AT B*rT (TEARS)         38.5        41.5         43.7             60.0                     60.4
INWANT MOLT. RATE (PM THOUS)        194.3       172.5       145.2              63.8                     66.3
ACCss TO SAFE MATER (rOP)
TOTAL                                ..         2.0          9.0 /d          32.9                     37.0
URBAN                              47.7        53.0        81.0 Id           70.9                     54.8
RURAL                                ..          ..          5.o0            22.1                     26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               1.0                      1.0 1/          18.1                     *1.3
UR                                   ..        14.0         16.0 1-          72.8                     41.6
RURALL                               ..          ..           ..              4.6                     33.1
POPULATION PM PHrSICIAN           73470.0    51360.0 It  30060.0             343U.2                   7749.4
poP. PER NUSI  PERSON                  ..     70500.077   33420.0            6793.1                   2460.4
Pop. PaS  OspITAL BED
TOTAL                            8260.0      6930.0       578L0.           1066.3                   1044.2
URBAN                             290.0       330.0        450.0 Ic          98.0                    631.2
RURAL                                 .          ..           .             993.4                   2596.6
AIMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             .          ..           ..               ..                     27.0
-ain
AVEAE Sl;E or IUSENOLD
TOTAL                                *-         5.5
URBAN                                ..4
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAE NO. OF PsOJnsIROO
TOTAL                                ..          ..
BAN2.0                                           ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS  O EZLECT. (2 Or DMELINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..3.0
DUMB                               30.2          ..
RURAL                                ..          **



-20 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
PftmAATa   1.0  2- 6O.AL I9 nt1.0           97.4                     202.0
MOST 1.MT0 6.0  53.0                         lb.796.
LL110a     1970&          23.a0       A     44. A6ACtC                '1.A  7 trz
AaJVSTXD ZctLW= RATIO$
PXIIYl  TOTAL                       21.0         26.0         91.0              27.6                     104.0
E LO              ' U9.0              53.0        126.0             11O.2                     170.9
WAK1                      2.0        2.0           23.0              63.7                     21.6
SICOhflhl                           22 .0        10.0         21.0             31.7                       23.0
ASUL! UTIZIC? 3*2U    (1811.0        13.0          33.0              52.6                      12.7
T?JI^U                    2.0         3.0           *.0              7C.J                     43.1
VQTOCAL (I Of aor SCW)                 0.2          LJ            .4 *|            2.2                      17.3
YRM                                 33.0        22.0          34.0              36.3                      31.4 
-   CmO                             32.0           .          31.0              11.7                       W
ASL  L     SIAC   ATSX (2)             *.2         13.0         19.0              33.4                      72.9
FAJIIU3   CAUR/OSAIID MP               0.1         0.4            ..               0.9                      10.1
IADXO  UC3zV!IToUIID D toP             3.0         4.1          20.5             112.1                     113.6
TV UICNIV918T/UTUI*IID POP              ..        '  .            *               15.7                      50.1
N33PAIU ("DAhLT KENAZ
ZN'AlI1')  IICUIATION
PER TISAII POIULL2ON                 0.7          2.'          7.3              16.2                     53.9
C014 AUAL  TTNDAC /CAIT                 ..          ..            ..               3.6                       3.4
LA CE ?
TOTAL LABOR VOUX (TNaUS)            4853.0      5534.0        7316.0
FKIALK (PUCrT)                      40.5        39.2         32.9               33.2                     23.5
AGUICULTiR  (CP1C0T)                95.0        94.0          93.0              69.6                      32.2
SHDU6*021  PCKSr)                    2.0         2.0           2.0              15.1                      17.9
FARICZPATOLN NATE CPCVi!)
TOTAL                               51.6        11.1          61.4              12.4                      38.7
IAL.                                61.5        33.8          57.6              54.7                      50.9
PEWAL                               41.4       32.6           37.1              21.6                      26.6
ISOO c oInEiUE     ATT                 0.8         0.3           1.0               1.0                       1.1
uaUww
VU S! or 11VA29   VUcSI
uCuYu.D ST
HNhIIST 5 01 fOUENOL                  ..           .          25.  e              ..                      22.2
HICIUS! 20Y01F HOUSENOLOS             ..          .           59.271              ..                     4.0
LVSr  w Or HOUSHOLDS                  ..          ..               E              ..                       6.4
LtS! 40 O? IlOtS: LOUB                ..          ..          12.S6               ..                      15.5
£STrIAD     ABSOLUTE POVERTY ISCOPU
LEVUL (018 MU CAPITA)
033                                                           9  a..  ..  95.0  1 33.9                   136.6
NZA>L                                 ..          ..         45.0                                       152.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY I30CIZ
iVsL (058 PU CAPITA)
on"                                   ..          ..            ..                ..                     177.9
RONAL                                 *-          *--         & °                 '.164.6
UTIAXOD POP. BRlU  ABSOLOTS
P0T DT U5001  LXVII (2)                                                                                                               )
Ua                                     .           :          55.               12.1                      23.4
RUIL...                                                       6L.0A             51.7                     27.7
KM1 AVAZLAII
Por APLZUL
S  0 ST A 
Tba group awaraua  for *eel ladtestor are populatLeaavLghte4 athmetic meaua.  Covrage of coatritea dmi tIe
fifcAtotrm doped. an avs  a llalty ot data ad  is wet ue_fom
lb   Unmn othearwse noted. "ats for 1960' refer to my yoar betwasn 1959 ad 1961: "Oats for 1970" betwen 1I9 and
19J1; and daca for "llee Vacat RD tlC ts" betwun 193  and 1982.
.L   1977; Id 1976; a  1975;  a Persoel in gooverynmn  marvwe. only; a  Percentage or "e             tLol  lh 1923;
. 197*



-21-                                                                                         ANEzX I
I..                                                             ~~~~~~Page  3 of S
4.*.ttt~~~~ *.94.ie .6 ap.l..d.. I.e. . . 9g4 . c.u.. .ullfe...... Ii... .  ~          ~         ~        ~       ~       ... ....... I
ctelNIu.l.  .           c. Alc E..... ..e*~      ...   e.I.1 .  -.i..   .Ec,..c.I...Etde                             Sl       .1   6na  .,u   1EcvehNNI
..... . ..... ...... ... .              ....IpeE~.    ...I.1..I..1...r    .g                                                             C.i-    .16e    l.
6-.g.ITc,   .lEi..            ..4.e.e   c,.*....6l.i  9t                                          *..mc.u
E*tI4.4  Ill   Ec                                                                !tIJA ZLL!..±fIrL3                .       'Ea 9.6 ....*E......t
Tmmm                                                                                          T!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Nm  d e  E,  hi 3:mm.~eu  -L  6hepiL64
Ir~z..,t..i   .fl   .  ' *.'... ..I. .e ..  .g...9Ige-                                             .     .6..  *.  ue.6* ic                      .     . t.eei
~~~~   -                       .     -     .~~~~~~~~~.........  ..                                   Elt          l:fL5.J:24        6: 
. ..l~IE9.......-Cerl.qtei.                                                               -.e   ,ga-*.644I
*  I...6....aE.cIlu..e....                                                                  I.644.6 tl.eet-E.g.g  .E9N..1.....I.........-
-.14.. Sq.... 6..g:. cii 6.6. I. p- .    EKE                        *z...         ~ : ....   .E.. .*.,.e,i*wu  ~.q           .     eap
.efgg.lq     .......I .E e....4  -  .EEl.   .       4..e   ..1
.6IE.EE   W :eel.g  :7t     .           .4=             . .     ..
Vet.t.c .6cE.I.geEgEleiee                              uee.eg.                                ES,N          I.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - nEPAL
GM? PER CAPITA IV 1963:  US$170
CRoSS DOKETIC PRODUCT In 1983/84                                        ANNUAL RATE 0  CROII. 1974/75-193/O14
(Z, constant prices)
GDP at Nsrket Pricee                 2,483      100.0                                  3.3
croam  Dometic Snveetgtmt              481       19.4
croas Domestic Saving                  261       10.5
Current Account Balance (Cxc.
officLal grants)                    -175        -7.0
Exports of goods, NIS                  274       11.0
Imports of Goods, MHS                 494        19.9
OUTPUT. LAOIR FORCE ANJD PROrVCTIVITT IN 1981/82
Value Added
Value Added              Labor forg& Al          Per Worker
D1 1D16.                 -                  S
Agriculture                          1,092        59             6.3    91.0               173
Industry kI                            253        14             0.2     3.0             1,265
services                              493        _.              0.4    _6.0'
Total/Average                  1.838        100             6.9     100               266
GOVERNKMZ FINANCE
cETRAL GOVENME
Rs._Kin     __  _  __  _ __  _  _
Z of GDo
19801/11     1981/82       1982/83       1983/34      1983/84
Current Receipts                       2,403        2,568         2,Z08        3.364          6.8
Regular Expeuditures                                L.4  1   3l2990           _Li 5i4
Current Surplus                        1.139        1.145           B18        1.294          3.4
Development Expenditure                2.731        3,727         4,982        5,060         13.3
External Asaistance (Net)              1,531        1,686         2,028        2,246          6.4
MONEY. CRZDIT AND PUCES
Est.
1960         1981          1982          iii         .964
(Million Rs outstanding nid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                            5,265         6,308         7,459         9,222       10,458
Bank Credit to Governmet                         1,362         1,357        2,13Z          4,131        4,7U1
Sank Credit to Public rnterprises                  501           668          675            972          959                   -
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    2.547         3,231        3,307          3,429        4,048
Money and Quai Money as Z of GOP                  22.6          21.7         22.9           27.4         27.4
General Price Indez (1974M75 - 100)              128.7         145.9        161.2          184.1        19.7.5
Annai Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                9.8          13.4          10.4          14.2          7.3
Bank Credit to Goverment                          15.          -0.4         57.1           93.8         15.7
Bank Credit to Public Enterprise.                 14.9          33.;           1.0          44D          -1.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     28.9          26.9          2.4            3.7         16.1
Note: All converiona :o 01 dollar. in thi table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
Fiscal yoer data are for Nepalese fiocaL year, July 16 - July 15.
J  Total labor force; unmployed are allocated to sector of their  ormal occupatiou.
hi  Includes mining, mntfacturing. construction and utilities.



-  23 -                                            ANNEX  I
1981/82      1982183      1983/8'           KLRCUAIMIDSE EXORTS 1983/84 Pae5 f5
(VSs million)                                                       Page  5 of 5
US$ "Inl.
Baleanc of Paymant
Agricultural products                   88.a          79
Caports                             Z77.6        250.4         273.3            Iaaufmccur.s                          '3.6           21
Herchandise f.o.b                115.6         82.3        112.4
Non-factor Services              162.0        168.1        161.3           Total                                  112.4         100
IEports                             450.5        521.6        494.3
MNerchadis. c.i.f                382.5        459.0        430.1           EXTERNAL DEST, DECEIMER 311  1983
Non-factor Servie.e               68.0         62.6         64.2
USS Hit.
Resource Gap                        172.8         271.2        220.7
Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                346.4
Not factor ILcoe                     12.5          13.0          1.3          No-G;uaranceed Private Debt
Not Curreac Tranafer*                40.6         41.7          44.9          Total OutstandiP4 I Disbursed                346.4
Curreut Account Deficit             119.8         216.5        174.5
Official GranC Aid                   89.4          95.3        104.2           DEST SERVICE RATIO for 1993/84
Not MiLT Loans                       59.8          67.0         70.8          PubLic Debt, inc. guaranteed                   3.4
Diaburrmence                      62.3         69.9          76.0
Repayments                         2.5           Z 9          5.2
Capital Flows N.E.I.                  9.3           5.2         -8.3          IRSD/IDA LENDING, Sept. 30. 1984 (Millions USS)
Overall Balance                      38.8         -49.0         -7.8                                                     S$5 MID.
Chasge iu Net Reserwes              -38.8         49.0           7.8                                                  IRBD    IDA
(-incrsase)
Outstanding & Disbursed                  -    195.0
International Reoservae             232.6         164.3        117.1          Undisbursed                               -    304.8
(Kid July)
Outstanding  incl. undiaburmed           -    499.8
RATE OF EICEANCI
Fran March 20. 1978          FrOm September 19. 1981        Frou December 17, 1982
to September 18. 1981        to December 16. 1982           to ua  31. 1983
uSSI.00 * NM  12.00          USS1.00 - NRa 13.2             USSI.00 - MRS 14.3
NR 1.00 * USS 0.083          YE 1.00 - USS 0.076            NM  1.00 - USS 0.070
Moot Recast Rates *1
June 30. .984                Se,tember 3D0  1984            December 31. 1984         January 31. 1985
tUSSI.00 - NRs 16.4          USS1.00 - NRa 17.3             USSI.00 - NRs 18.0        USSI.00 * Nks 18.4
NRI.00  * USS  0.061         NR 1.00 - USS 0.058            MR 1.00 - USS 0.056    NR 1.00 - CSS 0.054
a/  Since June 1. 1983. the Nepal Rastra Bank announces the exchange rate daily,
based on a trad-weiighted basket, vith the US dollar as the intervention
currency.  The rate ahovn here is the aid-rate on che date indicated.
South Asia Country Programs
February 26. 1985



- 24 -                     Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of Sertember 30. 1984) aJ
USS million
(net of cancellations)
No.    Year      Borrower         Purpose                           IDA   Undisbursed
Ten credits fully disbursed                                         82.3
470    1974  Kingdom of Nepal  Water Supply and Sewerage           11.8        1.1
704    1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Water Supply & Sewerage   8.0            2.3
705    1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Industrial Dev. Corporation          4.0        0.7
730    1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Highway                      17.0        1.7
772    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Education                  5.7        2.2
799    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunications III              14.5        4.3
812    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Sunsari-Morang)         30.0       15.4
856    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Narayani Zone)          14.0        5.6
939    1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural Development            11.0        8.8
1008    1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Community Forestry                  17.0       14.3
1055    1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Mahakali)               16.0       14.2
1059    0980  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Water Supply & Sewerage   27.0           15.2
1062&j  1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Grain Sto-age                        6.2        4.3
1093&/  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Babai)                   3.5        0.3
11O0OJ  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension & Res.   17.5            7.2
1101&|  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Hill Food Production                 8.0        5.1
1191c/  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Cottage & Small Industries           6.5        3.6
1198sI  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Education                    14.3       11.5
1260c/  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  9.2            4.7
1316c/  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation VII-Bhairawa-Lumbini 16.0           12.4
1339c/  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Cash Crop Development Proj2ct    6.0            4.9
137s3J  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Technizal Assistance
Project                          6.0        5.5
1400ct  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Forestry Project             18.0       16.7
1452c/  1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Karnali Preparation Project
(Phase I)                       11.0      10.2
1463c/d/1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Primary Education                   12.7       12.7
1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Marsyangdi Hydroelectric
Power Project c/e/             107.0     107.0
1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Highways clef                47.5       47.5
Total,                            547.7      339.4
of which has been repaid          0.5
otal', now outstanding b/         547.2
Total now held by IDA             547.2
s/ No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
iJ Prior to exchange adustments.
sJ  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and
Disbursed amounts shown in US dollar equivalent at the rate of exchange
for the SDR on September 30, 1984.
d/ Not yet effective.
e/ Not yet signed.



- 25 -
ANNEX   II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30. 1984)
Amount ($ million)
Year             Oblizor            Type of Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1975    Soaltee Hotel (Pvt) Ltd.   Hotel                     2.7    0.4     3.1
1982    Nepal Orind Magnesite       Mine and process         4.8     -      4.8
(Private) Limited         magnesite ore
Total commitments now held by IFC                    7.5    0.4     7.9
;
4



- 26 -
ANNEX III
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT: PHASE II
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare the Project:         Five weeks
(b) Agency Preparing the Project:              Consultant
{c) Date of First Presentation to the          October 24, 1983 and
Bank and Date of First Mission to          November/December 1983
Consider the Project:                      for preappraisal
{d) Date of Departure of Appraisal
mission:                                   March 6, 1984
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations:        February 20, 1985
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:             90 days after signature
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
Maintanance of  MNG after project implementation of incremental staff
positions established under the project (Section 3.08(b), DCA).



io.~~~~ 8.                                                                                                                                                                    is.
\  _   vrse  /  _ 1                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N E PA L
309  't^) t  wu; 8,                                   e                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT 1I 1
dF                                     lp                                                                                             P r +Poi.ct Districts
) ?   ^ v ,v'  e   u  )-._\                    /                                          ;/////S    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ProjecYot Yer 
'.                                                                                                                                    P  <   R/ -'- 1>roject Ver 2
oJenelif^|45  s  IC5 9 (^s1° <t  t S^   g  D        o          o  4                                                            Ongorng PoirJct Districts
t,  to 5 E r | rS ~~~~~~~~~~~~M                      A                                                                                               T   °    s.uoDvelprn eion E,iing  Recjorch and
Aixc"5*lZ( -  > < ,    %;j ~~~~~~~~~e;^,^wot  >  k   fy ";0,,,,o    5 ~~~~~~~~~Boundaries                                                 F     nnFcilifie
a.  - 1    -    .  a  Z   +  r  4   -, >                        ¢_                     -   -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~Zonal Eloundories  6)Regional Resisairh Stations
-aL  @>;ae  t       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<0  D42gj  j                    .2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  Regional Frrining Centers
A.-U ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~
r0 6rrr                              80lr *.   YllrH     J   0 A0 af~U
r~ ~ ~  ~ ~~ X1MR l .    c.X     m   s   wr s n 0r  bZ ...............................    
rxS  rr vvl / rsiV.> #  1~ _~_  {    oWF   SA 
^~ ~ ~~~~i    #L"   P.- N-k.                                                                                                                                                            $a- CO.nVxVII






