CREDIT NUMBER 1570 NEP
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Extension II Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 /0            1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1570 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                /0                    , 1985,
between the KINGDOM OF NEPA    (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DOA" means the Department of Agriculture of the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(b)  "Project Area" means the administrative districts of
Kanchanpur and Kailali in the Far-Western Region, Bardia and Dang
in the Mid-Western Region, Bara, Parsa and Rautahat in the
Central Region, and Sirha, Saptari, Sunsari and Morang in the
Eastern Region;


﻿(c) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and,
thereafter, maintained pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
(d) "Nepal Rastra Bank" means the Borrower's central bank,
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Nepal Rastra
Bank Act, 1955, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
AgreemeAt set forth    or referred   to, an   amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in the Nepal Rastra Bank a special
account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04, The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿3
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1995, and ending March 1,
2035, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2005, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-4-
agricultural, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall, by Decem-
ber 31, 1985, employ architects whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association, such architects to be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the


﻿-5-
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain in the DOA the professional positions existing
in the Project Area as of the date of this Agreement, and shall
continue to fill such positions, at all times, with suitably
qualified and experienced officers;
(b) ensure that the Panchayat Level Agriculture Assistants
to be appointed for carrying out the Project shall be qualified
and experienced persons, and residents of the Panchayats in which
they shall be assigned to work; and
(c) without limitation to the provisions set forth in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement and in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
this Section, by March 31, 1987, jointly review with the Associa-
tion the adequacy of the staff assigned for carrying out the


﻿Project, in particular Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistants,
and, thereafter, take all such action as shall be necessary to
ensure that, at all times, an adequate number of qualified and
experienced staff are employed for the efficient implementation
of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) by December 31, 1985, establish and, thereafter, main-
tain a District Technical Committee for each district in the
Project Area, with such powers, functions and responsibilities as
shall be required to enable each such Committee to review the
rate of adoption of agricultural practices and identify research
priorities and adaptive trial needs for the district concerned.
Such Committees shall each be chaired by the Agricultural
Development Officers of the respective district and include as
members the Subject Matter Specialists, the Research Outreach
Officer, and representatives of the district field staff,
research workers, irrigation staff and farmers of the district
concerned. Such Committee shall meet regularly at least once
every aix months;
(b) by December 31, 1985, appoint and, thereafter, maintain
in the Eastern, Central and Western Regions of Nepal, qualified
and experienced Senior Agricultural Extension Officers; and
(c) by August 31, 1986, appoint and, thereafter, main-
tain in each of the Far-Western and Mid-Western Regions of
Nepal, a qualified and experienced Senior Agricultural Exten-
sion Officer.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) appoint and, thereafter during Project Implementation,
maintain the incremental staff required for the carrying out of
the Project pursuant to a staffing schedule satisfactory to the
Association;
(b) upon completion of the Project, maintain the incre-
mental staff employed pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section required to achieve the objectives of the Proj-
ect;
(c) ensure that all the extension staff of DOA assigned to
the Project shall carry out, exclusively, agricultural extension
work under the Project; and


﻿-7-
(d) ensure that all special production programs to be
implemented in the Project Area shall be carried out utilizing
appropriate extension methodology and organization.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1986, furnish
to the Association, for its review and comments, a statement of
the progress made by the Borrower in the location of sites for
offices, training sub-centers and staff housing to be constructed
under the Project and all such information in connection there-
with as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to provide facilities and incentives to the
field Project staff, including establishment of a credit scheme
pursuant to which all junior technical assistants engaged in the
implementation of the Project may purchase bicycles financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, In addition, the Borrower shall
provide to such staff an appropriate monthly maintenance allow-
ance to encourage optimum use of such bicycles.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, through the Evaluation and
Programme Analysis Division of its Ministry of Agriculture, carry
out:
(a) by July 31, 1987, benchmark studies in the districts of
Kanchanpur, Kailali, Bardia, Dang, Sirha and Saptari, furnish to
the Association, for its review and comments, the results of such
studies, and, thereafter, taking into account the Association's
comments, if any, implement the results of such studies; and
(b) a monitoring and evaluation system, satisfactory to the
Association, for purposes of carrying out, on a semi-annual
basis, the monitoring and evaluation of the activities under the
Project, and, thereafter, furnish to the Association the results
of such surveys, for its review and comments.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall at all times cause the
buildings provided under the Project to be efficiently main-
tained, as well as the vehicles and equipment provided under the
Project efficiently operated and maintained, and all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section, including the Special Account,
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine months
after the end of each such year, a certif-ed copy of the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date                        / _ eLbtde4   is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:                       Telex:
ARTHA                              2499 NEP
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By         -el
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By       AA 72uicLv&1
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works               2,880,000         81%
(2) Vehicles, equip-          1,150,000         100% of foreign
ment and furni-                            expenditures,
ture                                       100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Salaries and              1,380,000         100% FY86,
allowances for                             70% FY87,
Project staff                              50% FY88,
30% FY89,
20% FY90
(representing in
the aggregate
75% of salaries
and allowances
for incremental
staff)
(4) Project opera-              490,000         45%
ting cost


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Training and               760,000         100%
monitoring and
evaluation
(6) Special Acconnt             310,000        Amount to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (n) of
Scheduli 4 to
this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                 430,000
TOTAL           7,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "Project staff" means the Borrower's staff
employed for purposes of carrying out the Project, including the
incremental staff; and
(d) the term    "incremental staff" means the Borrower's
additional staff employed after the date of this Agreement for
purposes of carrying out the Project.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or


﻿- 13 -
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of thie Project is to improve agricultural
production through the adoption of low cost and labor intensive
agricultural practices, proper irrigation water management and
appropriate package of agricultural technology and inputs.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Reorganization and strengthening    of  the  Borrower's
agricultural extension services in the Project Area,
through, inter alia, the provision of adequate staff,
vehicles, equipment, and training.
Part B:   (i) Construction, equipping and furnishing of about 40
training subcenter buildings in the Project Area,
and improvement of the existing training facili-
ties at Jhumka and Parwanipur.
(ii) Construction, equipping    and  furnishing of   the
required Project staff residential buildings and
offices in the Project Area.
Part C:   Strengthening of the building construction capability
of the Agricultural Engineering Division of DOA through
the provision of additional staff, equipment and con-
sultants' services for architectural design.
Part D:   Monitoring and evaluation of the various activities
under the Project, including evaluation studies and
surveys.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in August 1984 (hereinafter called the Guidelines).
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Nepal may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertized locally, in accordance with pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 each or less, not to
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $200,000, may be let on
the  basis   of  competitive  bidding   advertized  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and with respect to
each contract for vehicles, equipment and other goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply; provided, however, that where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the


﻿- 16 -
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association, pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines, shall be furnished   to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply, provided, however,
that where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies fo the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines together with the
other information specified therein, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the proceeding sub-paragraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and
(5) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars of the United States of America equivalent to the amount
allocated to Category (6) which is to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows.
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the


﻿- 18 -
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1), (2), (3), (4)
and (5), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursua .t to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment mEde by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) for
the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association and of any outstanding special commit-
ment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Catego-
ries (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such


﻿- 19 -
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of \
198
FOR SECRETARY


