Report No. PIC608
Project Name              China-State Farms Commercialization Project
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Agriculture
Project ID                CNPA3591
Implementing Agency       Project Office of State Farms Department
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
11 Nan Zhanguan Nanli
Beijing, China
Telephone: 86-1-5003366, Ext. 2652
Fax: 86-1-500-2448
Contact: Mr. Lu Bai Rong
Date Prepared             May 1996
Appraisal Date            May 1996
Projected Board Date      November 1996
1.      Country/Sector Background.   The State Farms System (SFS)
comprises a State Farms Bureau (SFB) in the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), 29 provincial level bureaus (only five of which fall directly
under the jurisdiction of the central Bureau), some 2,200 state farms
encompassing diverse agriculture, industry, transportation, construction
and trade activities, and about 1,400 enterprises operating as separate
legal entities. Spread out over 38.3 million ha, the SFS occupies 4% of
China's total land area and about 49 of the arable land, with a total
population of about 12 million. The first farms were established in the
late 1940s and early 1950s, primarily as resettlement centers to provide
employment for demobilized military personnel after China's own civil
war. Their effectiveness in reclaiming and developing marginal lands,
and delivering security and social services to remote areas of the
country led to their widespread adoption in the 1950's, and eventually
farms were set up in all provinces. Under the centrally planned economy
they served as reliable suppliers of such strategic commodities as
rubber, grain, cotton, sugar and wool for government procurement and of
milk, fish and meat for regional urban centers.
2.      Starting in 1978, with the introduction of rural economic
reforms which lessened their importance in supplying essential
agricultural products, the central government encouraged state farms to
integrate agricultural, industrial and trade activities and readjust
their production mix to achieve better economic results. By 1993,
agricultural sales accounted for less than 20% of total sales for the
entire system. As a result, the State Farms occupy an important
position across the spectrum of the rural economy, and reform
demonstrations in their activities would serve as replicable models for
achieving greater efficiency, across a number of sectors.
3.      China has established that enterprise reform is high on its list
of priorities as evidenced by the "Decisions on Issues Concerning the
Establishment of a Socialist Market Economic Structure" issued in
November 1993 by the 3rd Plenary Session of the 14th Party Congress.



This document outlined a 50-point agenda for economic reform to be
attained by the end of the century across an unprecedented array of
interrelated fronts, including (1) creating a "modern enterprise system"
of corporate ownership and management, based on the principle of
corporatization and providing for full separation of the state's
exercise of ownership rights from the enterprise's exercise of legal
person property rights, and (2) encouraging the development of mixed
ownership forms of enterprises, including the "privately-owned,
individually-owned and foreign-invested" sectors. In practice this has
meant a reduction in privileged access to resources and markets,
elimination of direct subsidies, and diversified business relationships
to provide for the capital, services and markets once assured by the
State. Since then a number of significant reforms have been announced,
including the promulgation of a Company Law (effective in July 1994)
which provides rules for the incorporation of all ownership mixes of
enterprises into limited liability and limited liability shareholding
companies; specifies governance structures (e.g. size and composition of
boards of directors and boards of supervisors), provides rules regarding
transfer and sales of shares; and outlines procedures for mergers and
bankruptcy.
4.      In this background of enterprise reform, the SFB has embarked
on a new round of reforms which will: further increase the autonomy of
farms and enterprises; diversify ownership to include individuals,
collectives, and cooperatives; promote joint ventures with foreign
partners; restructure the provincial and municipal bureaus to facilitate
their transition from arms of government to commercial entities; and
diversify their roles in agriculture, industry and trade. With the
integration of its agricultural production capability with sideline
production from household farms and renovation and rationalization of
its processing facilities, the SFS has the potential to become a major
force for competitive commercialization of agroindustry in the emerging
socialist market economy.
5.      Country Assistance Strategy.   The Bank Group's objectives and
assistance strategy (as presented to the Board on June 1, 1995, with an
update on March 26, 1996) are to help China meet its two major
challenges: (1) achieve macroeconomic stability while maintaining rapid
(and more efficient) growth and (2) insure that this growth is sustained
by shifting resources toward priority areas, including poverty
reduction, human resource development, infrastructure and environmental
protection. The ultimate objective is to assist the Government in
developing the institutions and instruments necessary for sustaining
rapid growth and broad-based development using a mix of economic and
sector work, technical assistance, lending, investment and guarantee
operations, in which the IFC and MIGA will play significant roles. To
help the Government meet its first challenge, the Bank Group will assist
efforts to restructure the enterprise incentive framework, implement
market-oriented reforms, and increase reliance on indirect instruments
for macroeconomic management. The principles underlying the Bank
Group's support to SOE reform are (i) creation of autonomous corporate
enterprises with clear lines of governance, a fully transparent set of
modern financial accounts, and clearly defined management prerogatives
and responsibilities; (ii) separation of the provision of social
services (including housing, social security, education and health from
-2 -



enterprises; (iii) subjecting enterprises to market discipline by
eliminating subsidies and promoting competition; and (iv) promoting
greater flexibility in ownership to facilitate enterprise restructuring
through acquisition of new technologies, management expertise and
financing sources. Closely linked will be reforms in the financial
sector to encourage more efficient financial intermediation, better
resource allocation, and higher returns to savers. Reforms in these two
sectors lie at the core of the Government's reform agenda and are
designed not only to increase the efficiency with which investment
resources are used in the economy, but also to facilitate the management
of aggregate demand. The proposed project is consistent with the CAS in
that it addresses both enterprise and financial system reform elements
as they relate to the rural economy in accordance with the principles
outlined above.
6.      Project Objectives.   Under the umbrella of promoting the
continuation of commercialization of the rural sector, the basic
objectives of the project wold be to i) support, accelerate and catalyze
enterprise reform with the State Farm System with a line of credit to be
extended through an independent project financial intermediary (PFI) to
state farms and their enterprises for technological modernization of
existing production facilities or establishment of new commercial
ventures, and (ii) to increase the capacity of the PFI to conduct long-
term lending activities. It would help the State Farm system to fulfill
its role in initiating and demonstrating economic development in rural
areas and spreading these benefits to surrounding areas, supplemental to
(and competitive with) both other large integrated processing, marketing
and commercial networks (e.g. the Grain Bureau system), thousands of
county-owned enterprises and tens of thousands of township and village
enterprises (TVEs). In addition, it would strengthen yet another
financial intermediary and help to build up a set of national
institutions able to compete in the arena of rural lending. Performance
monitoring indicators for the Project would be focussed at the level of
subprojects (Bank loan funds disbursed, number of subloan proposals
approved, number of subprojects under implementation, number of
subprojects in operation, number of subprojects operating profitably,
number of enterprises shifting social burden to government
administrative entity) and the PFI (appointment of additional staff,
person-months of technical assistance completed and tasks completed,
interest and fee income, collection performance on non-entrusted
portfolio, improvement in financial strength as measured by risk-
weighted capital adequacy and reduction of non-profitable activities).
7.      Project Description. The proposed project would consist
primarily of a line of credit to the China Trust and Investment
Corporation For Economic Development (CTICED), for subloans to eligible
borrowers in the State Farm System (SFS), to fund investment activities
that are consistent with the efficient use of resources in the emerging
market environment of the beneficiaries. Financing would be
predominantly used by small and medium scale light industries, of a
scale sufficient to support appropriate environmental pollution control
technology, and linked to defined steps in the continuum of enterprise
reform in China--enterprise autonomy, ownership diversification, and
removal of social services from enterprises. Through its support of a
Project Management Unit within SFS, and technical assistance to CTICED,
-3 -



the Project would also enhance the capacity of support agencies to
ensure adequate direction on environmental, procurement and financial
aspects of subproject implementation. The enterprises to be assisted by
the project have common characteristics and constraints on which project
management and objectives are based. However, they are at various
stages in the progression of enterprise reform and they are engaged in
a wide range of commodities and activities. The project needs to
accommodate this diversity if it is to be effective. Investments under
the project are likely to cover, inter alia, the following major
production activities: dairy development, food processing, industrial
products, pharmaceuticals and traditional Chinese medicine, textiles,
and wood processing.
8.      The State Farms Bureau invited provincial and municipal bureaus
and their farms to submit proposals for subprojects representing their
best commercial opportunities--whether it was expansion of an already
successful enterprise or a new endeavor which had been studied for its
market potential, its financial result and its affordability. In order
to be eligible, an enterprise or its sponsor, in the case of new
endeavors, would have to be a legal entity registered with the local
Commerce Bureau, have separate accounts and financial statements in the
format prescribed by MOF for SOEs, show satisfactory financial
performance for the past three years, not be in receipt of any direct
subsidies, be current on credit obligations, and demonstrate commitment
to the enterprise reform process with a stated program outlining
specific steps and the time frame within which they would be
accomplished. New enterprises (i.e. established after September 1995)
would have no obligations for schools, clinics, housing or government-
imposed burden and employees would be covered by established pension
programs. Existing enterprises would have already made provision for
joining an established pension program and have action plans for
unloading housing and other social obligations and government burdens.
Activities to receiving funding under the project would be presented as
part of a business plan demonstrating a good understanding of the
commercial, technical, financial and organizational aspect of the
subprojects. Subproject fixed asset investment would be limited to
three times the pre-project fixed assets of the sponsoring enterprise;
post investment debt/equity ratio would not exceed 4:1; enterprises (or
sponsors, in the case of new enterprises) would contribute at least 30t
of the project cost as equity and have assurances of the availability of
remaining funding requirements and adequate working capital.
9.      After screening by the Bank during the preparation phase, about
50 subprojects were selected for site visits during the preappraisal
mission with Bank staff, a team of international technical and financial
consultants, and CTICED loan officers; the subprojects were evaluated
for their technical and financial viability, state of preparation, and
degree to which they met eligibility criteria. On the basis of the
findings at that time, CTICED selected an initial tranche of ten
subprojects and began detailed analysis and appraisal, which is still
underway. CTICED has submitted the first drafts of seven subproject
appraisal reports for Bank review, and comments to strengthen the
appraisal process have been provided to CTICED and will be discussed
further during appraisal. CTICED is committed to consider the remaining
subprojects in the pipeline, but it is not obligated to select these
-4 -



subprojects for financing under the project. Some subprojects may
strengthen or adjust their proposals, advance their preparation work or
meet the eligibility criteria and eventually materialize into subloans,
and others will drop out or be rejected by CTICED. Sponsors of
additional subprojects may submit their proposals directly to CTICED or
through the State Farm Bureau.
10.     Project Financing.   The project is expected to cost about $400
million. The Bank is considering a loan of $200 million for this
operation, and the balance would be funded by the Government.
11.     Project Implementation.   The main elements of project management
will be a Project Management Office (PMO) within SFB and the World Bank
On-Lending Department within CTICED. A Project Coordinating Committee,
consisting of representatives of SFB, CTICED, the State Asset Management
Commission, and the Director, Office of External Economic Relations, MOA
will have strategic oversight responsibility for the project. In
addition, an SFB/CTICED Task Force, comprising representatives of the
PMO and CTICED's World Bank On-Lending Department has been established
to facilitate cooperation on subproject selection and processing. As
the PFI, CTICED would be responsible for making subloan decisions under
the project, and then to oversee procurement, disbursement and
collection, and supervise sub-borrowers' performance. The project would
be implemented by farms and enterprises, under the guidance and general
supervision of the provincial (or municipal) State Farm Bureaus or
Agribusiness Corporations.
12.     Lessons from Previous Operations. A recent study of the Bank's
Operations Evaluation Department (Industrial Restructuring Study, draft,
March 17, 1995, OED, Country Policy, Industry and Finance Division)
summarizes experiences with industrial restructuring that are relevant
to the present project. In a study of 44 completed projects, it was
concluded that examples of China and Hungary suggest that effective and
sustainable public sector restructuring requires that public enterprises
be exposed to hard budget constraints and competition. In China and
Hungary, enterprises to be remodeled and developed were distinguished
from those that had to be phased out, and particularly in China, support
institutions were established. With its continuous formal and informal
Economic and Sector Work, the Bank helped China clarify the conditions
needed for successful restructuring, including price increases,
ownership changes and social impact mitigation. Of the 18 factors
identified in the report as determinants of successful project outcome,
seven were found to be statistically significant: macroeconomic
stability, market liberalization, labor policies, ownership and
management, Borrower performance, and Bank performance. In the case of
China, the report identified good management, relative independence from
government interference, and exposure to competition (especially export
competition) as the major factors for successful outcome. For China,
OED's report specifically recognized the importance of formal and
informal ESW that helped China clarify the conditions necessary for
successful restructuring, including price increases, ownership changes,
and social impact mitigation. Of importance to China also is the
report's finding that separating the production and social service
functions of public firms is essential, but presents a major challenge.
In addition, and not China-specific, governments need to institute hard
- 5 -



budget constraints, new oversight committees, managerial autonomy, and
performance and regulatory agreements. The report concluded that a
complementarity of Bank services is key to industrial restructuring:
lending and non-lending services, economic analysis, policy advice, and
provision of specialized support services--projects alone are not
sufficient. It also concluded that in terms of individual lending
instruments, more stringent conditions need to be applied to financial
intermediation loans (including return on equity, capital adequacy
ratio, debt service capacity, degree of portfolio rescheduling, and
collection rate). The findings of the OED report have been taken into
account in the design of the proposed project, both in relation to the
performance expected of the PFI and the selection criteria for
participating enterprises.
13.     Environmental Aspects.   The types of enterprises now being
considered are generally of small to medium scale with pollution control
requirements which can generally be met through application of widely
available and relatively simple control technologies. Consequently, the
Bank has designated an environmental impact B-rating to the project.
Initial environmental documentation would consist of an Environmental
Review, which would define the administrative processes by which
environmental clearances are to be secured during the subloan appraisal
process and outline the supervision procedures to be implemented by SFB,
with the support of technical consultants, to check that the procedures
are being followed and that the necessary pollution control facilities
have been installed and are operating satisfactorily. The Environmental
Review would be reviewed during appraisal, and assurances would be
obtained that SFB would appoint consultants under terms of reference
agreed with the Bank who would carry out the supervision process and
provide their reports to the Bank. In addition, a recent directive of
the PBC called for lending institutions to incorporate natural resource
conservation and pollution control into their criteria for loan approval
and to link compliance with national guidelines with disbursement of
funds. An assurance would be obtained that CTICED would require the
local EPB's approval of the subproject's environmental assessment as
part of its loan approval process.
14.     Resettlement.   Of the 50 subproject proposals reviewed during
preappraisal, none would involve land acquisition which would impact on
the sideline or main incomes of people using this land, and no one would
lose housing. Most subprojects are expected to utilize vacant land
within the confines of the sponsoring state farm or, in a few cases,
within existing industrial zones developed by city or county
governments. If displacement occurs or land acquisition impacts on the
incomes of people, it would be necessary to provide a resettlement plan.
Assurances would be obtained that in such cases, a resettlement plan
meeting principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be
required as a condition of subloan approval by CTICED, and where more
than 200 persons are affected, the Bank's prior approval of such plans
would be required. The principles and procedures would be agreed during
appraisal.
15.     Program Objective Categories.   The project represents the
opportunity to expand enterprise reform concepts through the major
remaining state-owned sector of agriculture and industry in China and
- 6 -



promotes the concepts of corporatization and commercialization in fields
with great impact on the entire rural sector.
16.     Project Benefits.   The project would promote the development of
enterprises through improved efficiency and market competitiveness by
emphasizing corporate planning, business management and marketing,
upgrading technology, and expanding and diversifying production. It
would serve to reinforce reform measures in the financial sector,
particularly with respect to financial condition, accounting and control
with FIs, and lending criteria for capital allocation. It would enhance
the efficiency of a relatively new PFI and contribute to greater
competition in the rural banking sector. In consideration of the
delegation of appraisal and investment decisions to CTICED, the Bank has
not carried out FRR and ERR analysis of the entire project. It would,
however, as part of appraisal, carry out reviews of a typical range of
subprojects which can be expected to be financed under the project. The
review would focus on both historical performance of the sponsor or
existing enterprise to confirm credit worthiness and projected
operations of the subproject to confirm financial/economic viability.
Financial projections would be made for each subproject for a 10-year
period; these would include income statements, cash flow statements,
financing plans, debt service analysis and from these, financial and
economic rates or return. CTICED would be expected to carry out this
type of analysis for each subproject as part of its appraisal process.
Contact Point:
Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 7 -



