Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4309 CHA
Project Agreement
(State Farms Commercialization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CHINA TRUST AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION  FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 12, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4309 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CHINA TRUST AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION FOR ECONOMIC 
DEVELOPMENT (CTICED).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000) on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
CTICED agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CTICED, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available to CTICED on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS CTICED, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of CTICED
Section 2.01. (a) CTICED declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management and in 
accordance with the CTICED Basic Documents, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and CTICED shall otherwise agree, CTICED shall carry out the 
Project in accor\1fdance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) CTICED shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, CTICED shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Borrower not later than four months after the Closing 
Date (or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and CTICED) for 
incorporation into the report to 
be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank 
pursuant to Section 
3.04 of the Loan Agreement, a plan for the future 
operation of 
the Sub-projects and for the continued achievement of the 
objectives of Part B of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
CTICED on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. CTICED shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CTICED shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CTICED shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CTICED shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CTICED of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) CTICED shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect 
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the carrying out of the Project and each 
Sub-project.
(b)
CTICED shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so 
audited and (B) an opinion on 
such financial statements, records and accounts 
and a report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the foregoing and except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, CTICED shall prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly reports of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request, not later than one 
month after the end of each calendar quarter, setting forth:  (i) its unaudited 
financial statements for the calendar year in which said calendar quarter occurs 
(including the financial ratios referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement as at 
the end of said calendar quarter), (ii) Sub-loan approvals made by CTICED and 
disbursements made by CTICED under Sub-loans during said calendar quarter and (iii) 
arrears and collection rates under loans made by CTICED, for the two preceding 
calendar quarters, including a separate report on these matters in respect of 
Sub-loans.
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CTICED shall 
maintain:  (i) a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.2 
to 1; (ii) a ratio of arrears to loan portfolio of not more than 15%; (iii) a ratio of 
equity to risk weighted assets of not less than 8%; and (iv) a ratio of equity 
investments to equity of not more than 30%.
(b)
Before July 31, in each of its fiscal years, CTICED shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such year 
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that CTICED would not meet any of the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, for its fiscal years covered 
by such review, or if any of the quarterly reports furnished by CTICED pursuant to 
Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement shows that CTICED would not meet any of said 
requirements for the quarter next following the quarter under review, CTICED shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the levels of its deposits, of the levels of its lending or of the structure or levels 
of its interest rates and other financial charges) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
Page  4
(i)
the term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating 
expenses within the next fiscal year, but 
excluding assets 
related to entrusted operations;
(ii)
the term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends, but 
excluding liabilities 
related to entrusted operations;
(iii)
the term “arrears” means the total amount of principal and 
interest due and 
payable under loans made by CTICED which remains 
uncollected from time to 
time;
(iv)
the term “loan portfolio” means the sum of the total principal 
amount of loans 
made by CTICED outstanding from time to time and the 
total amount of interest 
and other charges due and payable under said 
loans which remains uncollected 
from time to time;
(v)
the term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of CTICED not 
allocated to cover specific 
liabilities;
(vi)
the term “risk weighted assets” means the total amount of all 
assets of CTICED 
weighted with regard to the expected risk of each 
such asset, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and
(vii)
whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of Renminbi, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes 
of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
 Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CTICED 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CTICED thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  5
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For CTICED:
China Trust and Investment Corporation 
for Economic Development
No. 2 Building, Xindadu Hotel
Beijing, 100044
People’s Republic of China
Telex:
221068 TICED CN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CTICED may be 
taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons as said President 
shall designate in writing, and CTICED shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Authorized Representative
CHINA TRUST AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
   FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Li  Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
I.
Project Management 
A.
Appraisal and Supervision of Sub-loans
Page  6
In order to ensure the proper implementation of the Project, CTICED shall 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, with functions, composition 
and resources acceptable to the Bank, a department to be responsible for appraisal and 
supervision of Sub-loans.
B.
Environmental Audits 
1.
In order to ensure that Sub-projects are implemented in accordance with 
appropriate health, safety and environmental practices, CTICED shall undertake an 
annual environmental audit of selected Sub-projects.  
2.
In order to assist CTICED in carrying out such audits, CTICED shall employ not 
later than March 1, 1999, environmental experts, whose terms of reference, 
qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Bank.
3.
CTICED shall:  (a) furnish to the Bank not later than December 31 of each fiscal 
year the report prepared by said experts on the audits performed by said experts 
during said year, together with CTICED’s recommendations based on said report; and (b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with CTICED on each said 
report.
II.
Part A of the Project (Sub-loans) 
A.
General
CTICED shall: 
1.
make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries in accordance with policies and procedures 
acceptable to the Bank and on the terms and conditions set forth below in Part B of 
this Section II;
2.
exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-loan in such manner as to protect 
its interests and the interests of the Borrower and of the Bank, comply with its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and achieve the purpose of the 
Project; and
3.
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank.
B.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
For the purposes of Part A.1 of this Section II, Sub-loans shall be made in 
accordance with the following provisions.
1.
Eligibility Criteria
State Farm Enterprise Eligibility Criteria
(a)
Each Sub-loan shall be made to a State Farm Enterprise, which shall have 
established to the satisfaction of CTICED, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to 
the Bank  that:
(i)
it is an entity possessing legal person status; 
(ii)
it has been engaged in operations similar to those proposed under 
the 
Sub-project or has made suitable arrangements to obtain the 
expertise required 
to engage in said operations;
(iii)
it is creditworthy, it has a sound financial structure, and its 
financial 
performance (or, in the case of a new enterprise, the 
financial performance of 
its owners) for the three years preceding its 
application for a Sub-loan has 
been satisfactory;
(iv)
it is able and has undertaken to (A) contribute at least 30% of 
the total 
estimated cost of the Sub-project in the form of 
equity and (B) maintain a 
ratio of debt to equity that will not 
Page  7
exceed 4 to 1;
(v)
it has the organization, management, staff and financial and other 
resources 
required for the efficient carrying out of its operations, 
including the 
implementation and environmental management of 
the Sub-project which it 
proposes to carry out; 
(vi)
in the case of an existing enterprise, it has prepared and 
undertaken to 
implement a suitable restructuring program 
designed to improve the efficiency 
with which it carries on its 
operations, such program to focus on its 
corporate and 
management structure and its policies with respect to employee 
benefits; and
(vii)
if the State Farm Enterprise requires access to proprietary 
technology in 
order to carry out the Sub-project, it has 
made appropriate arrangements to 
obtain such technology.
Sub-project Eligibility Criteria
(b)
Each Sub-loan to a State Farm Enterprise shall be made for a Sub-project 
which CTICED shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal (including an 
environmental assessment) carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank:
(i)
is technically feasible and economically and financially and 
commercially 
viable, and involves no investments in the tobacco 
industry or urban real 
estate;
(ii)
is estimated to generate fixed assets that will not exceed 2 times 
the 
existing total fixed assets of the State Farm Enterprise 
(or, in the case of a 
new enterprise, of its owners); and
(iii)
is in compliance with environmental standards satisfactory to the 
Bank, and 
with all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower 
relating to health, 
safety and environmental protection, and, 
without limitation on the foregoing: 
(A) has been developed in 
accordance with the recommendations of such 
environmental impact 
assessment thereon as shall have been approved by the 
environmental protection bureau responsible for the locality in which the 
Sub-project is located; and (B) if the Sub-project would involve the 
involuntary resettlement of persons, includes a resettlement plan 
for all said 
persons, which (1) has been designed, on the basis of 
policies, planning 
principles, institutional arrangements and 
design criteria acceptable to the 
Bank, to improve the living 
standards of said persons and (2) if said 
resettlement plan 
would involve resettlement of 200 persons or more, has been 
approved by the Bank.
Maximum Sub-loan Size
(c)
The total amount outstanding from time to time of all Sub-loans to any 
one State Farm Enterprise shall not exceed $20,000,000 equivalent.
(d)
The total amount of all Sub-loans for any one Sub-project shall not 
exceed the lesser of:  (i) 50% of the total estimated cost of the Sub-project; and 
(ii) 100% of the total estimated cost of the Sub-project (exclusive of the cost of 
land and taxes).
2.
Terms
(a)
Each Sub-loan shall be denominated in Dollars or Renminbi or both.  The 
principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the equivalent in the currency of 
denomination (determined on the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan 
Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods and services for 
the Sub-project for which said Sub-loan is made, and shall be repaid over a period not 
Page  8
to exceed seven years, inclusive of a grace period not to exceed two years.
(b)
Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest: (i) on the principal amount 
thereof denominated in Dollars and withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at an 
annual rate not less than the sum of (A) the rate of interest payable by CTICED 
pursuant to Part B.1(b) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement plus (B) 2.4%; and (ii) on 
the principal amount thereof denominated in Renminbi and withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time at an annual rate equal to the annual rate charged by CTICED for 
loans of similar maturity at the time the Sub-loan is approved by CTICED.
3.
Sub-project Implementation
(a)
Each Sub-loan for a Sub-project shall be made on conditions whereby the 
State Farm Enterprise carrying out said Sub-project shall undertake:
(i)
to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in 
conformity with appropriate technical, economical, financial 
and commercial 
practices and appropriate health, safety and 
environmental practices 
acceptable to the Bank, maintain 
adequate records and provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, 
facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(ii)
if the Sub-project involves the involuntary resettlement of 
persons, to take 
and cause to be taken all measures necessary to 
ensure that all such persons 
shall be resettled in accordance with 
the resettlement plan referred to above 
in Part B.1(b)(iii)(B) of 
this Section II;
(iii)
to procure the goods and services required for the Sub-project and 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods 
and services exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(iv)
to enable the Bank to inspect the goods, sites, works and plans 
included in 
the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and 
documents;
(v)
to take out and maintain such insurance against such risks and in 
such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including 
insurance to cover the hazards incident 
to the acquisition, transportation and 
delivery of goods financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use 
or installation, any 
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency 
freely 
usable by the State Farm Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(vi)
to:  (A) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices 
its operations and 
financial condition, including separate 
records and accounts adequate to 
monitor and record the progress 
of the Sub-project; (B) have its records, 
accounts and 
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (C) furnish to CTICED (and, if so 
requested by the Bank, to the Bank), as soon as available, but in any 
case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as CTICED (or the Bank) 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(vii)
to provide such information as the Bank or CTICED shall reasonably 
request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial 
condition of the State Farm Enterprise and to 
the benefits to be derived from 
the Sub-project.
(b)
CTICED shall suspend or terminate the right of the State Farm Enterprise 
to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such State Farm Enterprise to 
Page  9
perform its obligations under its contract with CTICED.
4.
Procedures for Approval of Sub-loans
(a)
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan unless:
(i)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and 
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 
days prior to the 
date on which the Bank shall have received the 
application and information 
required under paragraph (b) 
below of this Section 4 in respect of such 
Sub-loan; or
(ii)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for 
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier 
than 180 days prior to the date 
on which the Bank shall have received 
the request and information required 
under paragraph (c) below 
of this Section 4 in respect of such free-limit 
Sub-loan. For 
the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a 
Sub-loan for a Sub-project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $5,000,000 equivalent, when added 
to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out 
of 
the proceeds of the Loan, which have been or are being used for 
financing 
goods and services directly and materially related to 
such Sub-project, the 
foregoing amount being subject to change from 
time to time as determined by 
the Bank.  Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, the first five Sub-loans proposed to 
be made by CTICED 
under the Project, as well as the first two Sub-loans 
proposed to be made by CTICED in any fiscal year, shall not be deemed to be a 
free-limit Sub-loan.
(b)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, CTICED shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to 
the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the State Farm Enterprise and an 
appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of 
the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such 
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals in respect of a 
free-limit Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the State Farm 
Enterprise and the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of 
the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan.
(d)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 
(b) and (c) above of this Section 4 shall be presented to the Bank on or before June 
30, 2002.
III.
Part B of the Project (Institutional Development)
CTICED shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with a technical 
assistance program acceptable to the Bank.  In order to ensure the proper 
implementation of said plan, CTICED shall:
A.
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than September 1, 1998, a time-bound implementation plan for said 
program; and
B.
thereafter, promptly carry out such implementation plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank.
IV.
Monitoring and Reporting
CTICED shall: 
Page  10
A.
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
B.
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, annual reports not later than March 31 of each calendar year, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Part A above 
of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the preceding calendar year and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the then current calendar year; and
C.
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review with CTICED, each report 
referred to in Part B above of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project during the then current 
calendar year and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
carried out by domestic contractors. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C.1(b) of this Section I, works estimated to cost 
less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Page  11
(b)
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of  
price quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
2.
Goods
(a)
Shopping
Except as provided in Part C.2(b) of this Section I, goods estimated to cost 
less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from three 
qualified suppliers in response to a written request for quotations.  The request 
shall include a detailed description of the goods, including specifications, the 
quantity of goods requested, the required time and place of delivery and a basic form 
of contract or purchase order acceptable to the Bank.  The award shall be made to the 
supplier who offers the lowest price quotation for the goods, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully, as determined on the 
basis of evaluation criteria acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
Direct Contracting
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract or must 
be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or 
are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of direct negotiations with the supplier of such goods, 
and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the direct 
contracting procedures set forth in Part C.2(b) of this Section I, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any such contract, CTICED shall provide 
to the Bank 
a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  12
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part B of the Project may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
under Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and 
(ii) each contract for the employment of consulting firms for Part B of the Project, 
regardless of the cost thereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  13
