                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29171


                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (SCL-43090 TF-20298 TF-28236)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$59.4 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                   FOR

                       THE STATE FARMS COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT




                                              June 28, 2004




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Yuan
                                       Y1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                    US$ 1.00 = Y8.28

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1   -  December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CPMO    Central Project Management Office
CRS     Contract Responsibility System
CTICED  China Trust and Investment Corporation for Economic Development
EA      Environmental Assessment
ENPV    Economic Net Present Value
EPB     Environmental Protection Bureau
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FECC    Foreign Economic Cooperation Center (of the Ministry of Agriculture)
FNPV    Financial Net Present Value
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
IAEC    Investment Appraisal and Evaluation Center
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
MOA     Ministry of Agriculture
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NPV     Net Present Value
OED     Operations Evaluation Department
PFI     Project Financial Intermediary
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SCE     Shareholding Cooperation Enterprise
SFS     State Farm System
SOE     State-Owned Enterprise
SPC     State Planning Commission
TA      Technical Assistance
WTO     World Trade Organization




                              Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                           Country Director     Yukon Huang, EACCF
                             Sector Manager     Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Weiguo Zhou, EASRD

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                          THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                   STATE FARMS COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT

                                   (Loan No. 4309 - CHA)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. The Borrower's ICR                                                      26

Project ID: P003591                                                  Project Name: STATE FARMS COMMERCI
Team Leader: Weiguo Zhou                                             TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: STATE FARMS COMMERCI                                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-43090; TF-20298;
                                                                                                     TF-28236
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (45%); Agro-industry (37%); Petrochemicals and
                            fertilizers (10%); Banking (7%); Central government administration
                            (1%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Rural
                            markets (P); Small and medium enterprise support (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/28/1993                                     Effective: 09/09/1998                09/09/1998
     Appraisal: 05/04/1996                                         MTR: 03/01/2001
      Approval: 03/31/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The People's Republic of China/China Trust and Investment Corporation for
                                           Economic Development/Twelve Provinces
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Yukon Huang
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Weiguo Zhou                                    Kay Hill
ICR Primary Author:             Weiguo Zhou; Jin Liu


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


3.1.1    The objectives of the project were: (a) to support, accelerate and catalyze enterprise reform within
the state farm system with a line of credit to be extended through an independent project financial
intermediary (PFI) to state farms and enterprises for the technological modernization of existing production
facilities and the establishment of new commercial ventures; and (b) to increase the capacity of the China
Trust and Investment Corporation for Economic Development (CTICED), the PFI, to conduct long-term
lending activities. The project's objectives were clear and in line with the government's policies to support
the commercialization of state-owned companies in the agricultural sector and the reform of the state farm
system. The objectives were consistent with the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), especially the
strategic objectives of assisting China to implement market-oriented reforms and the reform and
restructuring of state enterprises.


3.2 Revised Objective:


3.2.1    The original objectives remained unchanged throughout the project's implementation.


3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The project was prepared between 1993 and 1995, and appraised in 1996. The Loan to support
the project was approved in March 1998 and became effective in September 1998. The design built on the
economic reform measures already initiated within the system, which focused on: (a) resolving the critical
issues within the state farm system; and (b) expanding the productive capacity and catalyzing the
commercialization of the state farm enterprises. The design was also based on the overall performance of
the CTICED. The project's state farms reform design provided a sound basis for achieving the overall
project objectives. The project design incorporated lessons learned from an OED report (Industrial
Restructuring Study, Report No. 14670, June 30, 1995) summarizing the experiences with industrial
restructuring, previous Bank-supported projects in China with enterprise reform features, and other
projects implemented in China's state farm system. The project design as a whole was appropriate; it was
realistic, consistent with the Bank's strategy and government reform policies for the state farm system, and
promoted close cooperation between the CTICED and the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).

3.3.2      The project had two components:

Component 1: Line of Credit (US$299.5 million, 99.8 percent of the total). This component was
designed: (a) to support policy and institutional reform, already in place and evolving, and technological
modernization; and (b) through the provision of sub-loans by the CTICED, to finance investment
sub-projects to expand the productive capacity of state farm enterprises.

Component 2: Technical Assistance for the CTICED (US$0.5 million, 0.2 percent of the total). This
component was designed to strengthen the institutional capabilities of the CTICED by: (a) the provision of
training programs for staff in project analysis, supervision and portfolio management; (b) the development
and adoption of: (i) a strategic plan for the CTICED; (ii) a credit manual; (iii) standardized loan
documentation and policies; and (iv) procedures for disbursements and eternal audits, and further
development of a management information system; (c) improving the organization in the areas of credit and
internal audit operations; and (d) the provision of equipment required for these programs.



                                                      - 2 -

3.4 Revised Components:


3.4.1    The original project components remained unchanged throughout the period of implementation.


3.5 Quality at Entry:


3.5.1    The project was not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The project's Quality at
Entry is considered to have been unsatisfactory. It took too long to complete the lending process and the
project had too high an expectation concerning the reform of participating state farms and enterprises.
Project preparation could have been improved if: (a) the lessons of engaging financial intermediaries in
Bank-financed projects in China had been adequately incorporated in project design; (b) in-depth risk
analysis had been carried out and mitigation action plans prepared; (c) more specific key performance
indicators, targets and project contributions to the performance of the reform programs had been defined
and documented; and (d) stronger and more specific commitments from various participants involved in
project preparation had been ensured.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


4.1.1    The project's objectives were relevant and consistent with the Bank's CAS and the government's
reform programs for the state farm system. The objectives were clear and understood by the participating
agencies and enterprises. However, the original project objectives were not achieved. The outcome of the
project as a whole, in terms of its Development Objectives, was unsatisfactory. This rating is based on the
following:

(a)      The objective of accelerating state farm enterprise reform and promoting technological
modernization for state farms and enterprises was not satisfactorily achieved; it was jeopardized by the
cancellation of US$90.6 million of the Loan (60.4 percent of the original Loan amount) and the
much-reduced number of participating sub-projects (only 22 percent of the targeted number of
sub-projects). The first cancellation (of US$80.75 million) was made on June 8, 2000 at the request of the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) for two reasons: (i) the rapid development of China's economy made domestic
capital more accessible and with more favorable terms; and (ii) the market changes caused by the Asian
financial crisis made some end-users change their investment strategy. The second cancellation (of
US$8,445,626 representing the whole of the then-undisbursed balance of the Loan) was made on March
17, 2003, also at the request of the MOF. The last cancellation (of US$1.4 million) was made on April 29,
2004 as a result of a refund received by the Bank.

(b)      Only a limited achievement was made of the objective of increasing the capacity of the CTICED to
conduct long-term lending activities for economic development because the CTICED was involved in
project implementation for less than two years (in the initial project implementation period).

4.1.2    However, the project did improve the productivity and commercialization of enterprises and
accelerated the transition from the planned economy to the market economy of the participating state farms
and enterprises; it also facilitated the reform process in other aspects. Good achievements and outcomes
were accomplished for some sub-projects, notably Jiangsu Kesheng Group Company (pesticide production)
and Guangxi Sisal Co. Ltd. (sisal processing). Detailed outcomes and achievements are shown in Annex 1.




                                                      - 3 -

4.2 Outputs by components:


4.2.1     The outputs of the project as a whole are considered to have been unsatisfactory. This rating is
based on the following considerations: (a) a total of 26 sub-projects were supported by the project, which
was only about 22 percent of the SAR target; (b) the final amount of the Bank Loan actually disbursed was
US$59.4 million, which is about 39.6 percent of the SAR target; (c) the project yielded only a poor
weighted-average financial rate of return (FRR) of 8.6 percent and an economic rate of return (ERR) of
10.4 percent; and (d) the project output indicators established in the SAR were not satisfactorily achieved.
Details are shown in Annex 1.

4.2.2     Component 1: Line of Credit (US$203.9 million, 99.8 percent of the total). The output of this
component was mixed.

(a)       Physical implementation. 26 sub-projects were distributed in twelve participating
provinces/autonomous regions (including Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, Hainan, Hunan, Inner Mongolia,
Jiangsu, Liaoning, Ningxia, Shandong, Xinjiang and Zhejiang). Less than the full amount of their sub-loan
allocation was withdrawn by eight sub-projects, of which four sub-projects decided to stop further
participation in project implementation after the first or second sub-loan withdrawals during 1998 and
1999 and made advance repayment to the CTICED. According to the CTICED, the reasons for their
withdrawal included: (i) more preferential loan terms were available from local banks (Fujian Zhongrun
Tangerine Shaddock sub-project); (ii) the revocation of the guarantee by the original loan guarantor
(Shandong Guangbei Dairy sub-project); (iii) the provision of sufficient funds by local government
(Zhejiang Ningbo Squid Fishing sub-project); and (iv) one sub-project's requirement for funds was satisfied
by domestic sources (Zhejiang Xiaoshan Fast-frozen Vegetable sub-project). The other four sub-projects
(Hainan Luoniushan Market, Dalian Dairy, Jiangsu Weisang Chestnut Flour and Xinjiang Land
Reclamation) continued their participation in the project and completed their respective project
implementation. Two sub-projects (Guangdong Baole Infant Diaper and Guangdong Huadu Litchi) were
physically bankrupted soon after their investments were made. The Dalian Sanhuan Medicine sub-project
shifted its investment to a wholesale market for cooked meat. The Inner Mongolia Grain sub-project
shifted its investment from the original proposal for land reclamation for grain production to the
replacement of farm machinery as a result of the government's new policy banning land reclamation. In
December 2001, the government proposed a new sub-project, the Yushu Greenhouse Vegetable Production
sub-project, for the Bank's consideration. This initiative was supported by the Bank, and a Bank mission
visited the proposed sub-project site in May 2002 to assist the Central Project Management Office
(CPMO) in its appraisal. However, the government decided to drop this sub-project as a result of its
careful study of the review and approval procedures of both the Bank and the government. The Bank
consented to the decision. Physical implementation of all 22 sub-projects was completed by the time of the
ICR mission.

(b)       Reform programs. In general, the reform programs have been progressing well, though not
uniformly, across the spectrum of the participants. In line with the government's policies, all participating
state farms and enterprises have taken steps in their respective reform programs. Overall, the project had
positive impacts to move each participating farm and enterprise to the next major level of reform. As a
result, the project improved the production efficiency and the management systems and increased the
capacity of marketing competition of the project farms and enterprises under the state farms system,
facilitating the commercialization of project farms and enterprises. Of the total of 22 sub-projects,
excluding the four sub-projects that were withdrawn early, eighteen have been transformed, or are in the
process of transformation, into either limited liability companies or limited liability share-holding
companies. All of the sub-projects have completed their major reforms, to different degrees, in the areas of:
separation of social functions (77 percent), housing (95 percent), pensions (95 percent), and medical



                                                       - 4 -

insurance (73 percent). Many have become truly autonomous commercial companies and some are still in
the process of reform.


                                     General Reform Progress in Key Areas

No          Sub-project            Type    Enterprise Reform       Separation of   Housing  Pension   Medical
                                                                   Social Function Reform  Insurance Insurance
 1 Guangdong Baole Infant Diaper   SOE  LLC                             Yes         Yes       Yes       Yes
 2 Guangdong Xinyi Malt Sugar      SOE  Shift to LLSHC in progress     Partial      Yes       Yes       No
 3 Fujian Zhangpu Citrus           SF   CRS                              No         Yes       Yes       No
 4 Fujian Fu'an Tea Product        SF   LLC                              No         Yes       Yes       Yes
 5 Fujian Zhao'an Litchi Orchard   SF   CRS                             Yes         Yes     Partial     No
 6 Inner Mongolia Grain            SF   LLC                              No         Yes       No        No
 7 Hunan Dongtin Lake Irrigation   SF   LLSHC and CRS                   Yes         Yes       Yes       Yes
 8 Guangdong Huadu Litchi          SOE  LLC                             Yes         Yes       Yes       Yes
 9 Dalian Sanhuan Medicine         SOE  LLC                             Yes         Yes       Yes       Yes
10 Guangdong Maoming               SF   LLSHC                           Yes         Yes       Yes       Yes
   Micro-Crystal Glass
11 Guangdong Yantang Dairy         SOE  Shift to LLC in progress        Yes         Yes       Yes    In progress
12 Guangdong Zhanjiang Sisal       SF   CRS and LLC in progress          No         Yes     Partial    Partial
13 Jiangsu Shengyang Timber        SOE  LLC                             Yes         N/A     Partial     No
   Processing
14 Yinchuan Yinguangsha Grape      SOE  LLSHC                           Yes         Yes       Yes       Yes
15 Guangxi Sisal                   SF   LLC                              No         Yes       Yes      Partial
16 Hainan Luoniushan Market        SOE  LLSHC                           Yes         Yes       Yes       Yes
17 Guangxi Zhongxin Guo'an         SOE  CRS                             Yes         Yes       Yes    In progress
   Shrimp
18 Jiangsu Kesheng Pharmaceutical  SOE  LLSHC                           Yes         Yes     Partial     Yes
19 Hainan Sanya Timber             SOE  LLC                             Yes         Yes       Yes       No
   Processing
20 Dalian Dairy                    SOE  LLC                             Yes         Yes       Yes       Yes
21 Jiangsu Weisang Chestnut Flour  SOE  CRS                             Yes         Yes       Yes       Yes
22 Xinjiang Land Reclaim           SF   LLC                             Yes         Yes       Yes       Yes
LLC: including Group Corporation

(c)       Technical quality. The technical quality of sub-projects was generally good; notably, the quality
of buildings and equipment of some sub-projects is considered to be at international standards. The project
modernized the technical production facilities or established new activities for some sub-projects and
partially achieved the SAR target to focus financial support to secondary industry out of primary
production of agricultural products, and several sectors benefited from this Loan. Competition in prices
and quality is underestimated by many sub-project managers. Only a few companies are planning their
future activities in a framework of market-oriented production and diversifying their outputs. Other
companies seem less dynamic or too inexperienced to evaluate the risk of "incoming" competition, and are
reluctant to consider new scenarios of partnership or development patterns. Product quality is not yet
considered by all sub-projects as a key component of the production and marketing process that could lead
to the economic sustainability of investment.

(d)       Environmental assessment. According to the project implementation agencies, Environmental
Assessments (EAs) were prepared for all sub-projects and submitted to both the local Environmental
Protection Bureau (EPB) and the CTICED. The reviewed EAs were of sufficient quality and the required
mitigation measures were generally sufficient to enable compliance with existing pollution standards. The
implementation of environmental mitigation measures at the sub-project level has generally been
satisfactory though with scope for improvements. In the Dalian Sanhuan dairy sub-project, an
up-to-standard environmental monitoring program was established with support from the Dalian EPB. In
most cases, the monitored parameters were limited to Chemical Oxygen Demand and total effluent



                                                           - 5 -

discharge. Other issues that were observed included unhealthy working conditions, erosion in litchi
orchards established on slopes of more than 25°, and insufficient operation and maintenance of pollution
control equipment. Contrary to the requirements specified in the Project Agreement, the CTICED did not
employ the required environmental specialist and has conducted an environmental audit for only one
sub-project.

4.2.3    Component 2: Technical Assistance (TA) for the CTICED (US$0.35 million, 0.2 percent of the
total). This component was only partially implemented. A series of TA activities took place, including ten
person-months of consultant services in operation system development and organizational restructuring, 12
out of the planned 18 person-months of staff on-the-job training, some overseas training and study tours,
procurement of computer and other office equipment, establishment of the information system,
establishment of the Credit Review Committee and the preparation of the Project Management Manual to
spell out sub-loan selection criteria and on-lending approval procedures. The implementation of this
component facilitated the capacity building for the investment management of the CTICED, particularly the
improvement of lending capacity. The component was funded entirely from the CTICED's own sources.
However, the implementation output of this component was quite limited because: (a) a delay occurred in
implementation as a result of the central government's decision to shift the institutional oversight
responsibility for the CTICED from the MOF to the Central Finance Working Committee; and (b) the
shorter implementation period of less than two years (from the end of 1998 to the early part of 2000) as a
result of the government's decision to transfer project implementation responsibilities away from the
CTICED.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    Economic analysis was carried out for each sub-project group and for the project as a whole
derived from the weighted average of results of all participating sub-projects based on information provided
by the CPMO and by individual sub-projects visited during Bank missions. Both the financial and
economic analysis are based on information provided by 17 sub-projects, excluding the four sub-projects
that were withdrawn early and the sub-projects of Hainan Luoniushan Market, Guangdong Baole Infant
Diaper, Guangdong Xinyi Malt Sugar, Guangdong Huadu Litchi and Inner Mongolia Xing'an League
Grain from which no statistical data were made available. The analysis presented in this ICR reassesses
the economic rate of return (ERR) calculated in the SAR using up-dated prices, actual project costs
incurred (including all project investment costs, variable operating costs, incremental recurrent costs and
production costs), and the latest information about sub-project production. For the purpose of the
economic analysis, costs in current prices were converted to constant 2003 prices. The methodology of the
analysis basically follows that of the SAR: (a) projecting the financial cash flow of each sub-project; (b)
eliminating transfer payment items, mainly in the form of taxes and subsidies, from the financial cash flow
table; (c) converting financial prices to economic prices by applying conversion factors with a standard
conversion factor estimated at 1; and (d) calculating the quantifiable economic benefits from the net value
of incremental production in "with-" and "without-project" scenarios.

4.3.2    The ERR calculation for each sub-project took into account all the incremental benefits and costs
in an aggregated economic cash flow. The project costs and physical achievements were drawn from
project records, while the future production projections were based on the actual performance of current
operations and data from sub-projects. The ERRs by sub-project group range from only 0.7 percent up to
16.8 percent. The project as a whole yielded an ERR of 10.4 percent and a net present value (NPV) of -
90.9 million yuan (US$11.0 million equivalent) at a discount rate of 12 percent over a 15-year period; these
are derived from the weighted average ERRs and NPVs of all sub-projects. The projected ERR at the time
of the ICR is a reflection of the following factors: (a) the poor economic performance of seven sub-projects



                                                      - 6 -

with negative ERRs or ERRs lower than 12 percent, mainly the result of the impact of severe natural
disasters; (b) low output prices resulting mainly from market competition; and (c) increased input prices.
Annex 3 shows the details of the analysis. It should be emphasized that a direct comparison cannot be
made of ERRs calculated at appraisal and project completion; in fact, only one sub-project, the Guangdong
Maoming Micro-Crystal Glass sub-project, was appraised during preparation of the SAR and completed
during implementation. It should be noted that lower discount rates (between 8 and 10 percent) are used
for ERR calculations for domestically-funded projects in China. If these rates are applied to the project, its
NPV improves to become positive (between US$2.9 million to US$20.6 million). The results of the ERR
and financial rate of return (FRR) calculations for each sub-project are summarized below:



                  Sub-project                          FRR at ICR              ERR at ICR
                                                             (%)                    (%)
 Fujian Zhangpu Citrus                                       21.6                   32.4
 Fujian Fu'an Tea Product                                     -                      -
 Fujian Zhao'an Litchi Orchard                               22.3                   24.1
 Hunan Dongtin Lake Irrigation                               18.9                   13.4
 Dalian Sanhuan Medicine                                     1.3                    5.4
 Guangdong Maoming Micro-Crystal Glass                        -                      -
 Guangdong Yantang Dairy                                     13.0                   15.9
 Guangdong Zhanjiang Sisal                                   2.9                    6.7
 Jiangsu Shengyang Timber Processing                         0.3                    -1.6
 Yinchuan Yinguangsha Grape                                  10.6                   18.7
 Guangxi Sisal                                               22.0                   22.8
 Guangxi Zhongxin Guo'an Shrimp                              12.1                   13.9
 Jiangsu Kesheng Pharmaceutical                              27.0                   14.7
 Hainan Sanya Timber Processing                               -                      -
 Dalian Dairy                                                12.9                   12.7
 Jiangsu Weisang Chestnut Flour                              25.2                   13.4
 Xinjiang Land Reclaim                                        -                      -
 Total Project                                               8.6                    10.4



4.4 Financial rate of return:


4.4.1    Financial analysis using an incremental cost and benefit analysis approach has been carried out for
each sub-project, for each sub-project group and for the project as a whole. For consistency purposes, the
principles observed at project appraisal were followed: (a) a 15-year period of analysis; (b) full costing,; (c)
financial flows valued at 2003 constant prices; (d) a "before tax and debt service" scenario (in general,
corporate income tax is 33 percent of taxable income); (e) costs separated into investment and operating
costs; (e) benefits derived from sales of outputs and products produced by the sub-projects from past years
and projected values for the future. As a result of the analysis, the FRRs of the sub-project groups range
from 1.1 to 25.2 percent. The FRR of the project as a whole is estimated to be 8.6 percent. The FRRs of
nine sub-projects are higher than 12 percent (with the highest at 25.2 percent) while the FRRs of three
sub-projects are negative. Annex 3 provides the details only for sub-project groups because of the
incomparability of sub-projects.

4.4.2    The table in Annex 3 shows a general trend of FRRs lower than the appraisal estimates, which is
attributed to: (a) higher project costs as a result of severe natural disasters and cost under-estimates at



                                                        - 7 -

appraisal; (b) increased operating expenditures as a result of excessive financial burdens on social
obligations and massive funds required for technical renovation; (c) lower revenue because of price drops
of major products under the project, the result of increased market competition largely because of China's
market system reform and accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO); and (d) delayed production
resulting from severe natural disasters. The generalized over-estimate of sub-project benefits and
under-estimate of sub-project costs at appraisal led to a poorer-than-expected financial and economic result
at project completion.


4.5 Institutional development impact:


4.5.1    The project achieved positive but modest impacts on the institutional development of the CTICED,
sub-projects and the CPMO. The CTICED benefited from the project: (a) 15 staff received training in the
areas of financial management, computer application, procurement, taxation, and relevant laws during the
period from end of 1998 to end of 1999; (b) one person received overseas training from August 1998 to
August 1999; (c) information system network equipment was provided, including two sets of servers, 18
sets of computers and other auxiliary facilities. However, any impact on the original CTICED as an
institution was not valid since the CTICED does not exist any more.

4.5.2    Sub-project staff benefited from their exposure to project guidelines and procedures. One of the
necessities for achieving the main objective of creating self-sustained commercial enterprises was that each
company should become either a limited liability company or a limited liability share-holding company.
This reform appears to have taken place as far as the companies actually benefiting from investment are
concerned. Though significant number of the companies still have quite a high proportion of government
ownership, with some still remaining subsidiary companies of a non-reformed SOE, about a quarter of
them have reduced the government share of ownership to less than 50 percent.

4.5.3    The MOA and the CPMO benefited from project management. As a result of improved project
management under the CPMO, both project management and the monitoring & evaluation have been rated
as satisfactory since May 2002.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    Natural phenomena (e.g., typhoons, frosts and drought) affected project implementation and
outcome negatively. The disastrous typhoon and long-lasting frost in late-1999 and early-2000 damaged
and destroyed between 30 and 70 percent of sub-tropical fruits (litchi, longgan, pineapple) in Guangdong,
Guangxi and Fujian and sisal plantations in Guangdong and Guangxi. Severe drought and floods in
Northern and Western China also affected plantation sub-projects. The disasters caused increased
sub-project cost and reduced both yields and total production, thereby delaying the affected sub-projects
reaching their full development in terms of production. Natural disaster was the primary cause of the
bankruptcy of the Guangdong Huadu Litchi sub-project.

5.1.2    The Asian financial crisis during 1998-1999 resulted in a sharp decrease of purchasing capacity in
the South-East Asian countries which are the major target market for some of the project enterprises (e.g.,
Guangdong Baole Baby Diaper sub-project). This resulted in reduced production, decreased project
investment and lower-than-expected revenue of some affected sub-projects. The effects of the crisis were
also one of the reasons that some sub-projects withdrew from the project because of changing market
conditions. The failure to provide adequate counterpart funds from participating enterprises themselves



                                                     - 8 -

and loans from local banks to some sub-projects affected the timely completion of project implementation
and the start of initial operation of some sub-projects.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1   The government's commitment and support to the reforms of the state farm system and the
commercialization of participating state farms and enterprises was both consistent and strong. The MOA's
support to the CTICED in policy guidance, progress reporting on reforms, and operational procedures
advice was a major supporting factor in project implementation. The MOF's strong support to the
CTICED's project implementation in the initial years proved a positive experience for the selection of the
majority of sub-projects. However, the government's decision in June 2000 to cancel US$80.75 million
(about 54 percent of the original amount) from the Loan jeopardized the project's implementation and
performance resulting in a much-reduced project area coverage and much limited project impact in the state
farm system. The government's decision on January 18, 2001 to revoke the CTICED's responsibility for
further project implementation and management made the achievement of the project's second objective
unrealistic.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1   The general lack of market studies, marketing strategy and WTO impact awareness of some
sub-projects resulted in marketing difficulties of some products or lower-than-expected financial and
economic returns. Sub-loan repayment overdues became an increasingly important issue. This was a
combined result of confusion caused by the shift of project management responsibility away from the
CTICED, a lack of understanding of the need for timely repayment, and unrealistic sub-loan terms and
conditions for most sub-projects.

5.4 Costs and financing:


5.4.1   The total actual project cost was estimated at about US$204.3 million (including working capital)
based on the costs of 26 sub-projects and the CTICED. This is the result of the government's decision to
make two partial cancellations of the Loan and to advance the closing of project accounts, thus shortening
the project implementation period and allowing fewer participating sub-projects.

5.4.2   Of the total project costs at completion, Bank disbursements amounted to US$59.4 million (39.6
percent of the SAR estimates, and 29.1 percent of the total actual project costs). The counterpart funds as
a whole were a total US$144.9 million (96.6 percent of SAR estimates, and 70.9 percent of the total
project costs); the sponsoring enterprises' contributions and domestic bank loans were 46.4 percent and
21.3 percent, respectively of total project costs (compared to 30 percent and 20 percent, respectively, in the
SAR estimates). Detailed project costs and financing are contained in Annex 2.

5.4.3   Due to limited information provided, some project costs and financing data in Annex 2 are
incomplete. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) table was compiled
based on data obtained from 9 sub-projects and CTICED. Project Financing by Component table was
compiled based on data obtained from 12 sub-projects and CTICED.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


6.1.1   The sustainability of the achievements of the project as a whole is unlikely because: (a) the



                                                     - 9 -

achievement of both the objectives and the outputs of the components is considered to have been
unsatisfactory; (b) several sub-projects encountered great difficulties (including the actual bankruptcy of
two of them); and (c) the effects of China's entry into the WTO were under-estimated in the cases of a
significant number of sub-projects, probably because of their managements' limited knowledge of foreign
competition in terms of price and quality. Inadequate marketing study and strategy resulted in difficult
marketing challenges for some sub-projects.

6.1.2    However, the sustainability of a number of sub-projects and some products is actually likely, based
on an analysis of individual participating sub-projects. The rationale for their sustainability is as follows:

(a) Government policy. The government's sustained policy regarding the state farm system and the
state-owned enterprises has helped project enterprises to deepen their reforms and improve operational
efficiency and effectiveness;

(b) Products with sustainable features. Several products with local features have been able to maintain
their competitiveness in the market. Environment-friendly products using natural raw materials (such as
sisal products, micro-crystal glass, dairy products and high quality wines) are likely to be better received
by the market in the future: and

(c) Improved financial position. Initially weak financial positions of some sub-projects were improved by
project investment and the improved production capacity.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:


6.2.1    According to information provided by seventeen sub-projects, transitional arrangements to regular
operations were made by most participating sub-projects to varying degrees, including: (a) the further
strengthening of institutional capacity; (b) a strong momentum for technical innovation, product adjustment
and quality control; and (c) greater attention to marketing.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1    Despite the project design focusing on the improvement of the reform programs of the participating
state farms and enterprises, in line with the government's priorities in the state farm system, the Bank's
performance during project preparation and Loan processing is rated as having been marginally
unsatisfactory. The willingness of participating state farms and enterprises to reform was over-estimated.
Project preparation could have been improved if: (a) the lessons of engaging financial intermediaries in
Bank-financed projects in China had been adequately incorporated into project design; (b) an in-depth risk
analysis and the preparation of a mitigation action plan had been carried out; (c) more specific key
performance indicators, targets and project contributions to the performance of the reform programs had
been defined and documented; and (d) stronger and more specific commitments had been assured by
various participants involved in project preparation.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    The Bank's performance on project supervision was mixed. During the implementation period, a
total of six Bank missions were carried out and an additional six Project Supervision Reports (PSRs) were
up-dated based on information obtained without missions.



                                                      - 10 -

7.2.2    The first two supervision missions (in October 1998 and October 1999) were carried out within a
13-month period following the effectiveness of the Loan (September 9, 1998). Both the Implementation
Progress and Development Objective of the project were rated as satisfactory upon the completion of each
mission.

7.2.3    The PSR No. 6 (a desk up-date) of December 8, 2000 rated both the Implementation Progress and
Development Objective as unsatisfactory for the first time, based on the conclusions that no major
implementation progress was made in the previous six-month period and that the project's Development
Objective was not likely to be achieved. In reality, all on-lending contracts between CTICED and
sub-projects were signed prior to May 2000. It is the consensus now that more frequent Bank and extended
supervision missions during this period might have helped to identify the potential risks and take mitigation
actions.

7.2.4    On January 18, 2001, the government decided to transfer project implementation responsibilities
away from the CTICED, transfer the sub-loan repayment responsibility to IAEC and request an advanced
Closing Date for the Loan.

7.2.5    In June 2001, as a result of the government's decision, the Bank's third supervision mission visited
the project area with the following objectives: (a) to review progress achieved with the project's credit line;
(b) to review progress of the state farm system reform; (c) to address outstanding issues; and (d) to make
arrangements for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). As recorded in the
mission's Aide Memoire, the ICR mission was scheduled for December 2001.

7.2.6    According to the plan, the Bank's fourth mission arrived in China in December 2001 to start the
originally-scheduled ICR preparation. During the mission, a new sub-project (the Yushu Greenhouse
Vegetable Production sub-project) was proposed by the MOF for support by the project. The Bank's
management endorsed the mission's support to the government's proposal and agreed to reschedule the ICR
mission. Consequently, the December 2001 mission was restated as a supervision mission.

7.2.7    To assist the government prepare for the new sub-project, the Bank's fifth mission visited the new
sub-project site in May 2002. The mission's objectives were: (a) to assess the technical feasibility of the
proposed sub-project; (b) to review the reform program required for the proposed sub-project; and (c) to
propose actions and recommendations. The mission's findings and conclusion were encouraging and
positive, and were confirmed by the Bank's management.

7.2.8    Since the Bank's fourth mission, some critical actions had been taken by the government and good
progress achieved in project restructuring. A request for amendment to the Loan Agreement was sent by
MOF to the Bank on April 19, 2002 to reflect the transfer of project implementation responsibilities. The
Bank drafted an amendment to the Loan Agreement in June 2002. Substantial preparation of the new
sub-project was made and project implementation progress was much improved. As a result, some project
performance ratings were upgraded though the overall performance remained unsatisfactory. Both the
Bank and government expected that the completion of the amendment of the Loan Agreement, the steps
agreed to implement reform programs, the implementation of the new sub-project and the other actions to
be taken by the government would contribute significantly to an improvement of project performance. The
Bank team, supported by the Bank management, was ready to revisit the DO and IP ratings during the next
supervision mission scheduled for September/October 2002 if all requested actions were successfully taken.
Unfortunately, the government decided in October 2002 to revoke the request for amendment of the Loan
Agreement and cancel all of undisbursed balance of the Loan. Physical implementation of the project,


                                                     - 11 -

including further preparation of the new sub-project, was therefore halted.

7.2.9    In January 2003, as agreed with the government, the Bank's sixth and final mission visited the
project to prepare the ICR. ,Both the Bank's ICR and the Borrower's ICR were ready for delivery in the
first half of 2003. As a result of a pending issue of a refund of US$1.4 million from one sub-project, the
Loan Account remained open until the refund was made on April 29, 2004. The delivery of the Bank's
ICR was held up until after the requested refund was made, in accordance with the advice from the Bank's
Loan department.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


7.3.1    The overall Bank performance is rated as having been unsatisfactory, because the overall project
implementation was unsuccessful and the Bank did not take more decisive action to close the Loan when
the major cancellation was made.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


7.4.1    The Borrower was very supportive of the project concept, design and preparation. The MOF and
the State Planning Commission (SPC) provided active guidance. The MOA initiated the project concept
and was active in the transformation of state farms and state-owned enterprises into commercial companies.
Local governments and participating state farms and enterprises were enthusiastic throughout project
preparation. The Borrower's initiatives, responsiveness and cooperation ensured finalization of project
preparation. Together with the Bank team, a pipe-line of about 50 potential sub-projects was developed.


7.5 Government implementation performance:


7.5.1    Despite the fact that the government provided adequate policy and regulatory support to the
project, several important factors need to be noted which caused the overall project performance to be rated
unsatisfactory:

(a)      On January 18, 2001, the government decided to stop the CTICED from further implementing and
managing the project, an action that officially banned the CTICED from playing any further role in the
project. A vacuum existed in project management until the CPMO was established in May 2002.
According to the government's explanation, this decision (which was taken without prior notice to the
Bank) was made as a precaution against a potential negative impact on project implementation of
fraudulent practices of the CTICED in its securities business*. Following the decision, no new sub-project
was approved for implementation. The MOF sent an official request to the Bank for amendment to the
Loan Agreement on April 19, 2002 to reflect this transfer of responsibility. A draft amendment was
prepared by the Bank on June 21, 2002. In October 2002, MOF revoked its request and decided to
advance the original Loan Closing Date. Since then, no further action to amend the Loan Agreement has
been taken by either the Bank or the Borrower.

(* The government's risk assessment was based on some indications that the CTICED had violated
business rules and the regulations of the securities market in China, though no evidence was found that its
International Loan Department, established to be responsible for preparation and implementation of this
project, was either involved in such practices or practiced such fraud in project implementation.)




                                                     - 12 -

(b)      The MOA played an important role in project implementation (and in the preparation of the ICR)
in advising on sector development priorities and policy guidance. As specified in the Loan Agreement, a
Project Oversight Office, headed by a Director of the MOA's Foreign Economic Cooperation Center
(FECC), was established to assume the following responsibilities: (a) providing policy guidance and
technical assistance to state farm enterprises in developing sub-projects; (b) providing policy guidance and
technical assistance to the CTICED in supervising sub-projects; (c) monitoring the implementation of any
resettlement plans; and (d) liaising between the MOA and other agencies involved in project
implementation. The MOA itself also actively participated in project supervision. The State Farm Bureau
of MOA provided the Bank with regular up-dates of reform programs within the state farm system.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    The CTICED, one of China's pilot state-owned non-bank financial institutions established during
its economic transition period, was the project's original primary implementing agency acting as a PFI.
Overall, the overall performance of the CTICED was mixed. The CTICED was responsible for the
appraisal and supervision of all sub-projects, on-lending and recovery of project funds, and preparation of
the Selection Procedures for sub-projects which were based on the evaluation of previous and prospective
financial performances and analysis of feasibility studies of applicants. The CTICED made its
contributions in: (a) the provision to participating state farms and enterprises of skills and knowledge
necessary for the preparation of sub-project feasibility study reports; (b) the selection of sub-projects, with
emphasis on their commercial potential and loan repayment capability to reduce investment risks; (c) the
implementation of approved sub-projects with the necessary operational support and its own TA
component; (d) the provision of flexible and accessible services to sub-borrowers; and (e) the partial
recovery of sub-loans.

7.6.2    In general, most of the participating state farms and enterprises have performed well; they were
serious about the design of their sub-project components and incorporation of their sub-projects in the local
government development programs and reform agenda. Sub-projects were also active in technical
innovation and took the lead in establishing the modern enterprise system and diversifying the ownership
system. It is important to note that the Chinese definition of a modern enterprise focuses on property
rights, the clear definition of rights and responsibilities, the separation of government functions from the
enterprise, and "scientific" management. They had completed most of their physical construction by the
time of the preparation of this ICR. However, repayment by most sub-projects has been unsatisfactory,
and one refund of US$1.4 million was requested by the Bank in June 2001 for a sub-loan mis-used by the
Guangdong Baole Baby Diaper sub-project; the refund was made by the central government on April 29,
2004.

7.6.3    The CPMO, composed of six members from the MOF, the Investment Appraisal and Evaluation
Center (IAEC) and the FECC, played an active role following its establishment in May 2002. Its assigned
overall responsibility for project management included: (a) direct communication with the Bank; (b)
overseeing sub-project implementation; and (c) coordinating the efforts of various agencies in
project-related activities. The CPMO contributed strongly to the resumption of the project's normal
implementation, especially in the areas of new sub-project proposal appraisal, in project supervision
arrangements, and in data collection for the preparation of implementation progress reports and the ICR.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1    The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as having been unsatisfactory, because of the
unsatisfactory performance in achieving the project's development objectives and the project's poor



                                                       - 13 -

implementation progress since June 2000.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1      A number of key lessons, both positive and negative, were learned which were summarized as
follows:

8.1.1    Government commitment. The government's strong and consistent commitment to state farm
system reform and continuous support to the state farms system's commercialization effort was the
foundation of project design and implementation. Cooperation between government agencies at various
levels was good and played an important role, especially in project implementation. However, the difficulty
of coordination between the CTICED and the MOA was somewhat under-estimated.

8.1.2    The role of a financial intermediary. The CTICED's role as a PFI caused a long drawn-out and
unresolved debate over the entire project period ever since the CTICED's involvement in project.

(a)      It was obvious that project implementation through a PFI resulted in a much-improved project
implementation efficiency:

         (i) The PFI's results-oriented sub-project review helped the participating state farms and
enterprises accelerate their physical construction.        Most sub-projects completed their physical
construction and became operational within a year or two.

         (ii) With the delegation of procurement responsibility to sub-borrowers and technical support
provided by the CTICED, procurement was much               efficient and better fit the sub-projects' actual
needs. Disputes and discrepancy in procurement, often a common problem in other
Bank-supported projects, have been rarely seen in this project.

         (iii) Loan disbursement through the PFI was much faster and more flexible than the traditional
on-lending mechanism.

(b)      However, it was also obvious that the unsatisfactory project implementation was caused
fundamentally by the CTICED in its role as the PFI.

         (i) The fact of sub-project appraisal by the CTICED, focusing almost entirely on the evaluation of
financial viability of sub-borrowers, jeopardized one of the project objectives (that of promoting enterprise
reform). Consequently, sub-project appraisals were generally weak on commercial assessments and market
prospects, very often missing a prospective design and a development strategy.

         (ii) The CTICED's revenue-oriented business objective conflicted with the reform effort made by
the Project Oversight Office established within the MOA.

         (iii) The CTICED relied heavily on local governments' guarantee for repayment of over 50 percent
of all sub-loans. This brought negative impacts on project implementation in terms of quality control and
financial risk management, thus undermining the interest of promoting the             commercialization of
participating sub-projects.

8.1.3    Project impact. Overall, the project has made a positive but limited impact on participating
sub-projects. By participating in reforms at the enterprise and state farm level, the project has established
successful reform models to facilitate the reform process. This, in general, brought about a profound


                                                    - 14 -

positive impact on the transformation of enterprises and state farms from subsidized, government-directed,
supply-driven entities to profitable, independent, market-oriented and demand-driven entities. Notably,
some sub-projects have established the modern enterprise system with full management and financial
autonomy, effective management mechanisms and sound social safety net coverage. This initiation has
substantially improved productivity and commercialization, and demonstrated as successful models in
reform of enterprises and state farms. Specifically, the project has a significant positive impact on
socio-economic development in the project areas with employment opportunities created or strengthened for
thousands of people. However, since the Bank's Loan funds were commonly been used to support a
relatively small scale of particular production activities within the context of the very diversified portfolios
of the state farms or their enterprises, the leverage that the Bank funds could exercise on the reform of the
state farm system as a whole were quite limited.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 8, the Borrower's ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:

No cofinanciers were involved in the project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

No other partners were involved in the project.


10. Additional Information


10.1     Status of reforms. Since 1979, a series of reform programs has taken place across the entire state
farm system. Early reforms included the introduction of the household farm system, a financial contracting
system between the MOA and provincial agriculture departments for the distribution of profits, and the
enterprise contract system between employees and their respective enterprises. China has been paying
great attention to the reform of the state farm system and considerable progress has been made on the
reform of the state farms and enterprises. The reform program has been carried out in three general
approaches. First, state farms and enterprises with better conditions were restructured into limited liability
companies, group corporation or limited liability share-holding companies. Second, state farms were
restructured as administrative districts endowed with limited government functions. Third, small-scale
state farms and enterprises were offered more flexible policies and management mechanisms for opening up
and reform. Within enterprises, the reform emphasis has been focused largely on the establishment of
modern management system, retooling of institutional and capital structures, specialization of production
arrangements and ownership diversification.

10.2     Agricultural reform. By the time of preparation of the ICR, all state farms nation-wide have
adopted the household contract responsibility system where all farm land has been contracted out to the
households on a long-term basis with a renewable land tenure of between 10 and 30 years. Under this
system, households are responsible for the sale of products, the purchase of inputs for production, and for
carrying risks. This provides individual households with greater incentives and more decision-making
power for diversifying farm production and improving financial returns. Future agricultural reform is



                                                       - 15 -

expected to focus on: (a) the improvement of family farms; (b) the acceleration of labor transfer from the
agricultural sector to the manufacturing and service sectors; (c) the specialization of large-scale agriculture
production; and (d) the improvement of productivity and integration of production and marketing.

10.3     Administration reform. Over 80 percent of provinces and municipalities with state farms and
enterprises directly subordinated to the state farm system have carried out the reform in their administration
departments. Some provincial state farm system administration agencies have completed the transition
from the traditional management system to the group corporation management system where social and
administrative responsibilities of state farms are explicitly separated from their enterprise-related
responsibilities. The experiments of separating social functions from state farms are on track and various
approaches have been taken. In some provinces, the social function has been handed over (once for all or
step-by-step) to the local governments. In other provinces, parallel administrative districts among state
farms were established and endowed with relevant but limited government functions to manage the overall
social and administrative affairs of these state farms. The state farm system administration agencies and
the administrative districts have stream-lined the administrative structure and down-sized the staff numbers
to achieve an improved management efficiency. However, great difficulties have been experienced by a
number of state farms in remote locations where local governments do not have the financial resources to
support this reform. As a result, the progress in shifting social function of these state farms to local
governments lags much behind.

10.4     Enterprise structure and operating mechanism reform. Most state farm system enterprises,
particularly those in the secondary and tertiary industries, have implemented reforms in various forms. A
number of large-scale enterprise groups have been established in the past years. For the enterprises under
the state farm system, the reform emphasis has been on organizational and management restructuring.
These included: (a) restructuring the state farms into companies to separate government functions from
operational functions and, eventually, transform them into companies with full responsibilities for
management and operation of state-owned assets independently; and (b) restructuring the state farms into
limited liability companies or share-holding companies with multiple ownership. The rights and
responsibilities of the companies have been clearly defined and the government functions have been fully
separated from the enterprises in the restructured enterprises. By early 2003, according to the MOA's
State Farm Bureau, more than 2,740 enterprises became limited liability companies and limited liability
share-holding companies with multiple investors, consistent with the requirements of establishment of a
modern enterprise system. Fourteen enterprises have been registered on stock markets with tradable stocks.
A number of large specialized enterprise groups governed by corporate operation rules and regulations has
been established in the past years. However, enterprise reform is at various stages and requires unremitting
efforts.

10.5     Ownership diversification. The government encourages ownership diversification in the state
farm system by attracting capital from diversified sources. Experiments on shifting ownership from state
to non-state entities continue through merging, selling or leasing some state assets to collectives and
employees. Collective, individual, private, foreign ownership and joint ventures have been developed
rapidly and have become the most common form of ownership in the state farm system. Flexible and less
restrictive policies have been adopted to promote non-state ownership. By early 2003, some 29 percent
overall (and as much as 50 percent in some provinces) of the GDP generated by the state farm system was
contributed by non-state economic activities which created significant employment opportunities, increased
employees' income, and improved efficiency and productivity of the state farms and their enterprises. It is
impressive that the set-up of any new enterprises with sole state ownership is no longer permitted within the
state farm system.



                                                     - 16 -

10.6    Social safety net system reform. Significant progress has been made on social security system
reform in the past years. Housing reform was far ahead of any other sector in China, and 100 percent of
employee households are covered. By the end of 2001, about 65 and 74 percent, respectively, of the
employees and retired employees under the state farm system have been covered by the local
government-sponsored pension programs. The government target is to cover 100 percent of all state farm
employees, including agricultural workers. The central government is almost ready to take a major step for
this purpose. Hopefully, the remaining staff will be able to participate in the pension programs in the next
few years. About 23 percent of employees and 28 percent of retired staff have been covered by the local
medical insurance system, and 26 percent of the state farm system's hospitals have been designated as
social security hospitals. About 47 percent of the population within the state farm system have been
covered by the basic living allowance program.

10.7    Functions of the state farm system. The state farm system continues to play several important
roles. The state farms' functions as a major agricultural production base to promote economic development
and as a balancing force in border areas remain unchanged. In reality, the state farm system's
demonstration role in the modernization of agriculture has been enhanced. The only function which has
been diminished is that which it performed i providing the resettlement centers for demobilized army
soldiers and school graduates during the "great cultural revolution", a nation-wide ten-year period of social
turmoil from 1966 to 1976 in China.




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Outcome/Impact Indicators:

             Indicator/Matrix                   Appraisal Estimate      Actual
Number of enterprises with full                            75            21
autonomy (14 management rights)
Number of enterprises organized as                         77            15
limited liability companies or limited
liability share-holding companies.
Number of sub-projects participating in                   N/A            19
local government- sponsored pension
systems
Number of sub-projects participating in                   N/A            11
local medical insurance programs
Improvement in efficiency as measured                      95            N/A
by collection performance on
non-entrusted portfolio (%)



Output Indicators:

             Indicator/Matrix                   Appraisal Estimate      Actual
Revenue¹ (Y million)                                                     41.7
Bank loan funds disbursed (cumulative                     150            59.4
US$ million)
Number of sub-loan proposals approved                     120            26
Number of sub-projects completed                           80            22
Number of sub-projects in operation                        50            20
Number of sub-project shifting social                      85            15
burden to government administrative
entity
Person-months of TA completed                              32            12
Interest and fee income from project                     29.3            4.7
(US$ million)
Note 1: Projected at project completion for revenue at full development
          based on information provided by 17 sub-projects.




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                     Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                          Component                                 US$ million   US$ million
Line of Credit
   Food Processing                                                     75.00         24.24           32.3
   Textiles/Garments                                                   60.00           0.00             0
   Industrial Products                                                 60.00         43.44           72.4
   Wood Processing                                                     45.00         27.75           61.7
   Other                                                               59.50        108.49          182.3
Technical Assistance for CTICED
     Consultant Services                                                0.45           0.30          66.7
     Equipment                                                          0.05           0.05           100

Total Baseline Cost                                                   300.00        204.27
                             Total Project Costs                      300.00        204.27
                     Total Financing Required                         300.00        204.27
1/ Actual project costs are based on all 26 sub-projects and the CTICED.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              1
                                                        Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                 ICB              NCB                  2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                          Other
1. Works                                 0.00               0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                              0.00               0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00
and Training                             (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
4. Land Acquisition                      0.00               0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                                 0.00               0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
1/ Project costs by procurement arrangements were not estimated at appraisal.




                                                        - 19 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                  2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                                0.00             12.82            11.43             0.00             24.25
                                       (0.00)            (5.81)           (4.06)           (0.00)            (9.87)
2. Goods                                0.00             37.65            1.42              0.05             39.12
                                       (0.00)            (16.11)          (0.35)           (0.00)           (16.46)
3. Services                             0.00              0.00            0.00              0.00             0.00
and Training                           (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
4. Land Acquisition                     0.00              0.00            1.46              7.69             9.15
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.32)           (0.00)            (0.32)
   Total                                0.00             50.47            14.31             7.74             72.52
                                       (0.00)            (21.92)          (4.73)           (0.00)           (26.65)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Including civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, training, and technical
   assistance services. This table was compiled based on data provided from nine sub-projects and the CTICED.



Project Financing by Component (in percentage)/         1




                                   Appraisal Estimate                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Project Component         World     D. Bank Enterpris        Total     World      D. Bank Enterpris        Total
                          Bank                      e                   Bank                      e
Line of Credit                                                           32.3        21.4       46.3       100.0
TA for CTICED              97.5                    2.5       100.0                              100.0      100.0
Total                      50.0        20.0        30.0      100.0       32.3        21.3       46.4       100.0
1/ Based on data collected from 12 sub-projects and the CTICED.




                                                      - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


                                Appraisal Estimate                          ICR Estimate
 Project Component        FRR           ERR          ENPV           FRR         ERR     ENPV
                           (%)           (%)           ($m)          (%)         (%)     ($m)
Food Processing           23.3          45.4            -           25.2        13.4     0.27
Dairy Development         50.7          38.7            -           13.0        14.8     1.42
Textile Development        20.2         66.3            -           N/A          N/A     N/A
Industry                   32.9         53.7            -            1.1         0.7    -28.66
Other                      19.3         40.4            -           12.4        16.8     16.01
Total                     24.0          53.7            -            8.6        10.4    -10.96
Note: Projections were made based on the "before tax and debt service" scenario.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year      Count            Specialty                         Progress      Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               07/31/1993                     5    TTL, OP, C (3)

               11/30/1993                     7    TTL, OP, C (5)
               07/07/1994                   11     TTL, OP, DC, C (8)
               10/22/1994                     3    TTL , OP, C
               06/08/1995                     3    TTL, C (2)
               10/27/1995                   29     TTL, OP, ES, TA,
                                                   En. S, PS, C (23)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               06/07/1996                     4    TTL, OP, C (2)
               12/19/1997                     7    TTL, LS , LA, DO (2), PS , C (2)

 Supervision
               10/07/98                       2    TTL, OP                                 S             S
               10/31/99                       2    TTL, C                                  S             S
               06/27/01                       2    TTL, ER                                 U             U
               12/20/01                       5    TTL, OP, AE, C (2)                      U             U
               05/14/02                       4    TTL (1), OP (1), SS (1), C (1)          U             U

 ICR
               01/17/03                       4     TTL, OP, PS, C                         U             U


AE       -        Agriculturalist Economist                ER      -        Enterprise Reform Specialist
AS       -        Agro-industry Specialist                 LA      -        Lawyer
C        -        Consultant                               OP      -        Operational Officer
DO       -        Disbursement Officer                     PS      -        Procurement Specialist
DC       -        Division Chief                           SS      -        Social Specialist
ES       -        Environment Specialist                   TTL     -        Task Team Leader
En. S -           Energy Specialist

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       -                          911.27
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            -                               -
  Supervision                                      -                          185.27
  ICR                                              -                               -
  Total                                            -                        1,096.52




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Implementation Completion Report of CPMO, P.R. China, September 5, 2003

2.   Implementation Completion Report of Fujian Zhangpu Citrus sub-project

3.   Implementation Completion Report of Fujian Fu'an Tea Product sub-project

4.   Implementation Completion Report of Fujian Zhao'an Litchi Orchard sub-project

5.   Implementation Completion Report of Inner Mongolia Grain sub-project

6.   Implementation Completion Report of Hunan Dongtin Lake Irrigation sub-project

7.   Implementation Completion Report of Dalian Sanhuan Medicine sub-project

8.   Implementation Completion Report of Guangdong Maoming Micro-Crystal Glass sub-project

9.   Implementation Completion Report of Guangdong Yantang Dairy sub-project

10.  Implementation Completion Report of Guangdong Zhanjiang Sisal sub-project

11.  Implementation Completion Report of Jiangsu Shengyang Timber Processing sub-project

12.  Implementation Completion Report of Yinchuan Yinguangsha Grape sub-project

13.  Implementation Completion Report of Guangxi Sisal sub-project

14.  Implementation Completion Report of Guangxi Zhongxin Guo'an Shrimp sub-project

15.  Implementation Completion Report of Jiangsu Kesheng Pharmaceutical sub-project

16.  Implementation Completion Report of Hainan Sanya Timber Processing sub-project

17.  Implementation Completion Report of Dalian Dairy sub-project

18.  Implementation Completion Report of Jiangsu Weisang Chestnut Flour sub-project

19.  Implementation Completion Report of Xinjiang Land Reclaim sub-project

20.  Financial and Economic Analysis Working Paper for ICR




                                             - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR


1.       Background Information of the Project

1.1      State Farm System (SFS) is a very important sub-sector in China's agricultural sector. State farms
have been acting as production bases for some important agricultural commodities such as grain, cotton,
rubber, etc, and as food stuff supply sources for urban and mining areas, as well as major producing bases
for export commodities. In mid-90th, SFS's gross value of agricultural and industrial output occupied
3.4% of that of the nation's whole, while its population accounting for 1% of nation's total. Over a long
period of time, due to lack of constant investment input and poor policy guidance resulted in the weak
infrastructure of SFS's agriculture and industry, SFS had seen a distorted production structure and
backward management system, which in turn constrained its sustainable development. In order to
strengthen the SFS under the new economic development period and promote the commercialization of the
whole system, the Chinese government initiated the state farm commercialization project concept during the
middle of 80th, proposed to the World Bank in 1989, and officially started the preparation in 1992. The
World Bank was very interested in SFS and state-owned enterprise (SOE) reform related projects and
actively involved in the project preparation. In April of 1993, the World Bank sent a pre-project
identification mission leaded by Ms. Kay Hill; in July of the same year, a project identification mission
visited China; again in November, the first mission of project preparation came to China. In the following
year, the second mission of project preparation leaded by Mr. Goldberg visited China from May to July,
and from May to June of 1995, the third mission of project preparation came. The pre-appraisal occurred
during October of 1995, and appraisal was done during May of the following year. Till then, the project
objective, major components, size of the project, sub-project selection criteria, on-lending mechanism, loan
and on-lending terms and conditions had been roughly agreed between the World Bank and the Chinese
government. In February of 1998, negotiation on legal documents of the project between the two parties
took place in the World Bank headquarters, loan agreement was signed on June 12, 1998, and the loan
became effective on September 9 of the same year. The domestic project endorsement and approval were
undergoing during the same period of time. The project proposal was submitted to SDPC at March of
1997, and got approved officially one year later.

2.       Assessment of Project Objective and Design

2.1      Project objectives and components

2.1.1    Project objectives. The principal objectives of the project were (1) to support, accelerate and
promote enterprise reform within the SFS with the Bank lending through an independent project financial
intermediary (PFI) to state farms and enterprises for technological modernization of the existing production
facilities or establishment of new commercial enterprises and (2) to strengthen the capacity of the PFI, the
China Trust and Investment Corporation for Economic Development (CTICED), in its long-term lending
activities.

2.1.2    The major components of the project include the following:

2.1.2.1 Supporting economic and institutional reform of state farms and enterprises of SFS based on the
on-going process.

2.1.2.2 Investing in state farms or enterprises with potential in the areas of production of high quality
agro-products, animal and fishery, wholesale markets, building material processing etc., 26 state farms or
enterprises were selected for assistance under the project. See Appendix 1 for details.

2.1.2.3 TA to CTICED. The TA package to CTICED included training programs; development and



                                                    - 26 -

adoption of a strategic plan for CTICED; development and application of a credit manual and standardized
lending documentation; improving the management information system; strengthening internal organization
in the areas of credit and internal audit operation, and provision of equipment for the program.

2.1.3    Project adjustment. The project was first proposed in the late 1980s, project design initiated from
1992, and the loan became effective in 1998. During this long preparation period, many factors contributed
to the changes in project components and implementation arrangement. The major changes during the
period were as the follows:

2.1.3.1 On-lending method and terms and conditions of the loan changed. Initially the project was proposed
to take the conventional on-lending mechanism, which is through the line government ministry or
government fiscal administration system. Later, in order to assure that the World Bank lending would not
be seen as a government subsidy in the eyes of the sub-borrowers and subprojects selection would be based
on commercial criteria, as well as for purpose of promoting on-lending mechanism reform, the World Bank
and Chinese government decided that on-lending would be carried out through a financial intermediary.
Being recommended by MOF and reviewed by World Bank, CTICED was selected as the PFI and the
on-lending terms for end users were changed accordingly. The on-lending terms from CTICED to end users
as stipulated in loan agreement between Chinese government and the World Bank were: in US dollars at
IBRD rate plus 2.4 percent spread, with a maturity of not more than seven years including two years of
grace period.

2.1.3.2 Project implementation agency changed. MOA proposed the project and finished the primary
project proposal at an early stage of project preparation, and designated more than 100 state farms and
SFS enterprises in 14 provinces as the participants before mid-1995. After on-lending mechanism was
determined, CTICED was selected as the PFI and was assigned the major project implementation
responsibility with MOA responsible for policy guidance as line ministry. Due to the changes in on-lending
arrangement and sub-loan terms, some proposed state farms and enterprises withdrew from the project. By
the time of project appraisal, under the joint appraisal by World Bank, CTICED and MOA, some 40
sub-project proposals had been included in SAR. Subsequently, by further assessment of CTICED after the
project effectiveness, 26 sub-projects were selected in succession by the early of 2000. In March of 2001,
concerned government agencies found that CTICED was suspected of violating regulation in its stock
security investment activities. For the safety of the loan, MOF dismissed CTICED as the PFI and then took
back the responsibilities of loan liability and related project management.

2.1.3.3 Loan amount changed. By the time of signing loan agreement, the loan from IBRD was 150 million
US dollars. MOF requested to cancel 80,750,000 US dollar from total amount at June 8, 2000 for the
following reasons: (1) the rapid development of China's economy made the domestic capital more
accessible and with more favorable terms, some proposed sub-projects turn to use domestic credit; and (2)
the market changes caused by Asia financial crisis made some end users changed their investment strategy.
By the end of 2001, 60.804 million US dollars disbursed from IBRD loan, accounting for only 40% of
SAR target, with 26 sub-projects, accounting for 65% of sub projects evaluated at the appraisal. By the
end of 2002, MOF further requested to cancel the undisbursed balance of loan amount of 8,445,626.60
US$ which was approved by the Bank already.

2.1.3.4 By the time of later project implementation, the CPMO expected there would be still some loan
savings by the end of the project and proposed a new sub-project proposal, Yushu Greenhouse Vegetable
Production, to the Bank. This initiative had been discussed with the Bank missions for a few times and was
appreciated by the Bank. In May of 2002, the Bank mission visited the proposed sub-project site, and
assessed the technical feasibility of the proposed sub-project and reviewed the reform program as required
by the project, and proposed the follow up actions and recommendations. Later on, MOF thought both
procedures of the Bank's appraisal and domestic approval will take a long time, and the subproject needs



                                                      - 27 -

funds urgently because of the market situation related to the proposed sub-project, the MOF decided to
drop this sub-project after careful study, the Bank consented to the decision.

2.2      Assessment to project objectives and design

2.2.1    General comments on establishment of the project objectives and project design. The principal
objectives and project components were reasonably designed. First, the project objectives conform to
government reform agenda regarding SFS and SOE in their reform towards market economy; second, the
investment under the project is in conformity with the government development strategy and priority which
set more emphasis on secondary and tertiary industries; third, project investment also conforms to the
government's thought of developing integrated agro-business through strengthening backbone enterprises;
and fourth, the objective of strengthening PFI's long term credit management capacity by the project
implementation is reasonable and practical considering the situation at that time.

2.2.2    The weakness of project design.

2.2.2.1 The instability of PFI itself, and the related risks to project implementation were not fully
recognized and evaluated during the appraisal.

2.2.2.2 Project design did not fully reflect the World Bank's experience in human resource development
and institutional strengthening. The components for technical and management training, particularly
enterprise management training for state farms or SF enterprises were almost missing from the project
components.

2.2.2.3 The implementing mechanism was unreasonable arranged. The difficulty of coordination between
CTICED and MOA was under-estimated.

2.2.2.4 A few sub-projects neglected the changes of market demands and effects by natural disasters on
their products.

3.       Accomplishment of Project Objectives

3.1      Achievements of general project objectives. The project objectives were largely accomplished.
Objective one, promoting and accelerating SFS and SF enterprises reform and upgrading the production
and management capacity was achieved. The other objective, strengthening the PFI's long term credit
management capability was realized to certain extent. Project component for CTICED itself was finished,
and CTICED's long term credit management capacity got improved from its performance regarding
sub-projects selection and on-lending activities although it implemented the project in a rather short period.

3.2      Achievements of specific project objectives

3.2.1    Accomplishment of sub-projects. 22 of 26 sub-projects finished their designed project
components. Four sub-projects prepaid their disbursed loan ahead of the set schedule. Most of physical
works were accomplished in the project with high quality and purchased equipment were advanced and
reliable. With the investment of the project, many sub-project farms or enterprises expanded their
production capacity, enhanced their company management capability and became backbone enterprises in
the local agricultural system. See appendix 1 for detailed information for each subproject.

3.2.2    Progress in reform on SFS and SF enterprises reform. To accelerate and promote the SFS and SF
enterprises reform is one of the key monitoring indicators of the project. Many factors could affect the
reform process, the most important ones among the others are government macro-economic policy, local
economic status and government attitude in this regard. Throughout the project preparation and
implementation, the central government had always encouraged economic reform of SFS and SOEs, and
the State Farm Bureau of Ministry of Agriculture's policies on SFS reform have kept consistent. Under this
favorable circumstance, the implementation of the project accelerated SFS and SF enterprises reform in


                                                      - 28 -

project areas to certain extent. The reform progress were summarized as follows:

3.2.2.1 Reform on SFS management system. SFS reform in the project areas could be divided into three
patterns:

(1)      Most of SFS in project areas have changed from traditional administrative system into group
companies, of which the SF administrative body becomes parent company and affiliated enterprises turn
into subsidiaries;

(2)      Some state farms changed into administration bodies governing local communities, called state
farm administration region which has the same function as the county level government; Xidongting Sate
Farm is one of the good examples;

(3)      Other State Farms which can not be changed in above two patterns have done some internal
reforms, including institutional streamlining and capability strengthening.

3.2.2.2 SF enterprises reform. The reform objectives for each project enterprise described in on-lending
agreement between PFI and sub-borrowers were flexible, depending on specific situation of each project
enterprise. By the end of project, most of project enterprises had achieved their reform objectives. In
general enterprise reform progress is briefed as follows:

(1)      Almost all project enterprises have turned to new operating mechanism and now possess 14 types
of autonomous management rights;

(2)      Some of new companies established under the project or existing companies have changed into
limited liability companies or limited liability shareholding companies according to the Company Law of P.
R. China. 30% of project companies have accomplished this organizational transformation;

(3)      Social obligations have gradually been separated from SFS. 80% of state farms or SF enterprises
have got rid of the traditional SFS's social obligations by making different arrangement according to the
specific situation. In general, most of social obligations like public security, education and health have been
shifted to local governments;

(4)      Pension focused social security system has been established in most of the project enterprises. All
the companies in the project have finished their housing reform, and 90% of enterprises have participated in
local government sponsored pension programs or SFS own pension programs. However medical insurance
program has been progressing rather slow, almost at the same pace of the organizations at local areas,
about 50% project companies have participated local basic medical insurance or SFS own unified medical
care system. All the reforms have greatly reduced the economic burden of the project companies, released
the worries of SF employees and created a favorable environment for accelerating the commercialization
progress of the companies.

3.2.3    Accomplishment of TA for CTICED. TA component for CTICED has been finished basically. 12
out of planned 18 person months training have been finished as well as the equipment procurement.
CTICED prepared detailed sub-loan selection criteria and lending approval procedure. Judging from its
performance during the project preparation and implementaiton, the effect of TA was obvious and its
lending ability got improved. According to the aide memories, the World Bank supervision missions
expressed their appreciation for CTICED's performance.

3.3      Procurement

3.3.1    The project procurement was done in accordance with the World Bank procurement guideline. It
was stipulated that any works estimated to cost over US$10 million or equivalent, any goods estimated to
cost over US$5 million should be procured through ICB procedures, procurement under above limitation
would be procured under other procedures acceptable to the World Bank. Since no procurement exceeded



                                                      - 29 -

the above cost limitation, so all the procurement under the project have been arranged by sub-projects
implementation organizations. The major procurements included buildings, equipment, farmland capital
construction, raw materials and agricultural inputs. The major procedures used under the procurement were
domestic shopping by obtaining price quotations from at least three qualified contractors, force account and
a few cases of NCB. Most of procurements, regardless procurement methods being taken, have strictly
followed the World Bank's procurement guideline in the process of setting technical specification, bidding
documents preparation, bid opening, bid evaluation and contracts award. The procurement related
documents were well kept also. All the other procurement has been done satisfaction of the Bank guideline,
except the Guangdong Baole Baby Diaper sub-project who neglected the timing requirement of the project.
They borrowed from the local bank to cover the project cost before commencement of the project, and used
the World Bank loan to repay the local bank's debt. They did not ask for pre-approval from the World
Bank.

4.       Impact of the Project

4.1      Economic benefit

4.1.1    The economic impact brought by the project investment to the surrounding society in general and
to the project areas in particular are presented in the following aspects:

4.1.2    Expanded the SF enterprises' production capacity and scale. Project investment brought new
vitality to the SF enterprises development. Under the project, about 20% of enterprises were new
companies established with project investment. For the existing companies, project investment expanded
their production capacity and products scale.

4.1.3    Reduced operation cost and improved economic effectiveness. The reforms promoted under the
project such as company transformation, pension program, separation of social obligations accelerated the
pace of SF enterprises modernization, reduced the operation cost and improved economic effectiveness.

4.1.4    Financial rate of return. Although some project enterprises have not reached their full production
capacity, but still some operated well and already got very good return financially. Those affected by Asia
financial crisis adjusted their development strategy and economic return is going up steadily.

4.2      Social benefit

4.2.1    Most of sub-projects are of agricultural related business. In view of the external nature of
agriculture, the social impact of the project is even bigger than its economic benefit. In general, the project
played three roles in the new economic development period requested by MOA to all the SFS enterprises,
namely, demonstration in building modern agriculture; being a major source of the quality agro-products;
and taking the lead in participating in international competition. The operation arrangement and reform
requested in the project promoted the SF enterprises to realize the transition from traditional planning
economy to socialist market economy to some extent; the technical innovation taken under the project also
helped the enterprises realize the shift from extensive operation to intensive one. The specific social impact
of the project was summarized as follows:

4.2.2    Creating employment opportunity and increasing SF staff's income. The newly established
companies and expanded capacity of existing companies in the project created about 8000 new employment
opportunities. Along with the growth of the project companies, the employees income was increased as
well. For example, in Guangdong Fanhua Building Material Co. Limited (Micro- crystal glass production),
the employee's income increased from 634 yuan in 1999 to 1170 yuan in 2002 with an annual increasing
rate of 28%.

4.2.3    Helping the SF enterprises produce and process the products with local characteristics. This was
achieved by taking advantage of native resources and lead the way of integrated agricultural operations.


                                                      - 30 -

Many sub-projects, such as sisal production and processing, building material processing and dairy
production and processing fully used the local available raw materials, and those processing companies
have become the leading enterprises of local integrated agriculture development.

4.2.4    Promoting multiple ownership of SF enterprises. According to general reform arrangement for
SFS and policy on economic restructuring, the state owned capitals should be concentrated on government
priority sectors and key enterprises, and meanwhile, social legal persons, private individuals and
enterprise's employees are encouraged to invest in middle or small sized entities and competitive sectors.
The project state farms and SF companies followed this policy and employed multiple ownership including
collective, private, and joint venture with foreign partners into the SF enterprises.

4.2.5    Increasing competitive power. Technical innovation in the project upgraded the products quality
and therefore helped the companies increase their competitive power. By introducing advanced equipment,
new varieties, new technologies and new quality standards, the agricultural and industry products under the
project have been improved substantially.

4.2.6    Demonstrating the way of agricultural and industry restructuring. During the project
implementation, China was applying for WTO membership. In order to encounter challenges, government
at each level made great efforts to realize the agricultural and industry restructuring and promote
development of sectors or commodities with comparative advantages. The prompt investment of project
helped the project enterprises restructure their production. The expansion of production of tropical fruits,
cash crops including sisal were some of the good example which were all set under the agricultural
restructuring framework by local government.

4.3      Project impact on environment

4.3.1    The project has positive impact on environment. Each sub-project had conducted the environment
impact assessment (EIA) and EIA reports have been approved by the respective local environment
protection authorities. The industrial sub-projects adopted advanced technology and all efforts were made
to prevent and control the possible pollution and contamination on environment. Some activities of
agricultural sub-projects improved the natural environment. For example, success of Grape plantation in
Ningxia under the project provided a very optimistic option for desert land management. Some project
products are also friendly to environment. The micro crystal glass, was another example. This decoration
material, a substitution of natural stone, produced by making use of remains of the dismissed kaolin mine at
one hand added high value to the raw material, at other hand contributed to the eco-environment
sustainability by reducing the mining of natural stone.

5.       Major Factors Affecting the Project

5.1      Favorable factors

5.1.1    Government macro economic policy support. Government was doing its best to deepen the SOE
reform and legal framework was formulated during the period of the project implementation. This policy
thrust helped the project enterprises have mainly accomplished their planned reform target.

5.1.2    WTO accession. China's accession into WTO brought the positive impact in general, the specific
favorable factors include: to promote SFS economic restructuring; promote enterprises' operation on
market mechanism; and help some enterprises export their products, in particular those labor intensive
commodities.

5.2      Unfavorable factors

5.2.1    Natural disasters. The most serious natural disaster among others was freezing injury happened at
the end of 1999 in Guangdong, Guangxi and Fujian project areas. Most of tropical fruits including Lichi,



                                                     - 31 -

Longgan, pineapple, and sisal planted under the project were damaged and thus delayed the affected
sub-projects to reach to their full production. 6 sub-projects were heavily suffered in natural disasters.

5.2.2    Asia financial crisis. Asia financial crisis affected the export of some project enterprises. Asia
financial crisis during 1998-1999 resulted in sharp decrease of purchasing capacity of Southeast Asia
which is the major target market for some of the project enterprises. Affection by the crisis was also one of
the reasons that some sub-projects withdrew from the project due to changing market situation.

5.2.3    CTICED issue. CTICED's issue caused the alternation of CPMO, which brought affection to
project implementation. The CPM changed from MOA during project preparation to CTICED because of
using the PFI on-lending mechanism. After less than threes years of project implementation, MOF took
over the position. During the process of CPMO shift, the monitoring and evaluation and supervision to
sub-project were affected, which caused the inconsistent project M&E and incomplete record keeping.

5.2.4    Other complicated factors. Many other complicated factors constrained the SFS and project
enterprises reform, among which local government policy and financial support are the most important
ones. Separation of social obligations from SFS, establishing pension and medical insurance for employees
of SF would be impossible without local governments' support, which heavily depended on the local
financial status. Different financial support resulted in variation of reform progress and achievement among
the sub-projects, and most project companies are still shoulder heavy social burdens.

5.2.5    Long project preparation period. It took almost 10 years from project identification to
commencement. During this long period, there were significant changes regarding products' market needs
and products' life cycle and the best investment timing was missed for some sub-projects.

5.2.6    Incorrect product identification and market analysis. Some subprojects designed wrong products
and caused unprofitable investment;

5.2.7    Availability of domestic loans with favorable terms. From appraisal to implementation, growth of
the national economy and increase of the domestic capital flow provided better access to funds with
attractive terms, some proposed sub-projects thus turned from the Bank loan to domestic banking sources.

6.       Assessment of Project Sustainability

Based on the analysis on the sustainability of most of the sub-projects, the whole project is sustainable,
except for few sub-projects with uncertainty in sustainability. The sustainability of the whole project are
showed in the following aspects:

6.1      The trend of SFS and enterprises reform

6.1.1    The government sustained policy regarding SFS and SOE will help project enterprises further
deepening their reforms and further increasing operation efficiency. The government's reform targets for
SFS and enterprises have been kept unchanged. Recently, MOA highlighted the reform focus on the next
period, which include: to promote SF enterprises reform with focus of establishing modern enterprise
management mechanism; to realize strategic economic restructuring by focusing on asset restructure and
multiple ownership; to adopt the market driven employment and income distribution mechanism; and to
strive for local governments support in establishing social insurance systems such as pension and
unemployment insurance. Under this general favorable environment, it is estimated that SFS and project
enterprises reform would be further deepened with less social burdens and higher operation efficiency.

6.2      Products with sustainable featureMany products under the project such as tropical fruits, grape,
tea, sisal and timber products, etc. are produced by taking the full use of comparative advantages of local
resources. Products with native features will keep their competitiveness in the market.




                                                      - 32 -

6.3      Environmental friendly products

6.3.1    The products using natural raw materials such as sisal products, micro-glass, dairy products, high
quality wines without harmful contamination will be better received by modern society who are seeking for
a natural and better protected environment, therefore those products would enjoy more widely market
needs.

7.       Performance of the World Bank and Borrower

7.1      Performance of the World Bank

7.1.1    Starting from 1992 to the end of the project implementation, the Bank put lots of resources to the
project. Over the 10 years, the three task managers, Ms. Kay Hill, Mr. Arie Chupak and Mr. Zhou
Weiguo and other Bank staff involved in the project have been highly appreciated by Chinese counterparts
for their seriousness and cooperative attitude. In general, the Bank's project management is considered very
productive.

7.1.2    Promoting new concepts. Energetically promoting new concepts such as commercialization and
new on-lending mechanism. The Bank had also rendered lots of productive advice and suggestions on
organizational reform of project enterprises and development strategy as well as company management.

7.1.3    Cooperating with the Borrower. Worked with the borrower to review over 100 proposed
sub-projects successively and screen out 50 sub-projects after careful analysis by the time of project
appraisal.

7.1.4    Supporting project implementation. During the project preparation and implementation, the Bank
fielded over a dozen missions to visit the project sites and provided many constructive recommendations
and effective measures while addressing certain problems existing in the project. The bank always gave
timely response to issues or suggestions raised by Chinese counterpart s and thus provided effective
supervision on the implementation of the project.

7.2      Borrower's performance

7.2.1    The organizations involved in project management at central level and sub-projects implementation
organizations have all seriously and responsively participated in project management.

7.2.2    Performance of CTICED. CTICED is a state-owned non-banking financial intermediary
established during China's economic and financial transition period. It was designated as PFI for this
project in 1995. In March of 2001, CTICED was asked to close all its business and the function of PFI of
this project was ceased therefore. CTICED had done lots of work as PFI since 1995 during the project
preparation and implementation although it does not exist anymore.

7.2.2.1 Field visits with the World Bank and MOA to over 50 proposed sub-projects sites in 11 provinces
and selected about 40 sub-projects for lending after thoughtful analysis and evaluation. It proceeded from
the commercial potential and loan repayment capability of the proposed project enterprises when selecting
the sub-loan. The practice helped reduce the risk of investment.

7.2.2.2 Approved and delivered sub-loan to 26 sub-projects and finished TA for CTICED by using its own
resource. Judging from the early implementation at the early stage of the project, the role of TA was quite
positive.

7.2.2.3 Realized part of loan recovery. By the end of January of 2001, CTICED recovered US$3.04
million of principal, US$ 4.59 of interest and US$ 62,000 of commitment fee.

7.2.2.4 CTICED staff worked with high sense of service and responsibility and provided flexible and




                                                      - 33 -

accessible services to sub-borrowers and were very much appreciated.

7.2.3    Performance of MOA.

7.2.3.1 MOA initiated the project and organized the early preparation including setting project concept,
objective, content, sub-project criteria, sub-projects recommendation, loan size proposing, etc. MOA
played an important role in advising sector development priority and policy guiding in particular. All of
above laid a solid foundation for the project.

7.2.3.2 After PFI was designated, the MOA has established a Project Oversight Office and Project
Coordination Committee as requested to ensure the smooth transition to project implementation.

7.2.3.3 During the project implementation, MOA continually provided policy guidance and technical
support in subprojects selection and actively participated in project supervision.

7.2.4    Performance of MOF. MOF took over the project management from March of 2001 and
established project management office with 6 staff in this regard. The debt management were entrusted to
the Investment Appraisal and Evaluation Center (IAEC). Since its take-over, MOF and IAEC conducted
the following activities with high sense of responsibility: taking over the sub-loan contracts, arranging
project supervisions, ICR preparation and data collection, loan and interest recovery, etc.

7.2.5    Performance of sub-projects implementation organizations. Sub-project implementation agencies
worked seriously when designing the sub-project components and putting the project under the local
government development agenda. Project enterprises were also active in mechanism innovation under the
general SFS reform framework and took the lead in establishing modern enterprise system and diversifying
the ownership system. They followed strictly in procurement of civil work, goods service and finished the
project physical construction in high quality.

8.       Major Experience and Lessons Learned

8.1      The positive experience of the successful part of the project

8.1.1    Government support and hard work of participating state farms and companies. The
modernization of project enterprises and the institutional reform benefited from the government support at
each level and hard work of participating state farms and companies. Local governments and SFS
administrations at project areas attached great importance to the project and established project leading
groups and project management offices. Sound project management system ensures the smooth
implementation of the project.

8.1.2    Loan disbursement through PFI. Loan disbursement through PFI is faster and more flexible than
the traditional on-lending, mechanism which helped the project companies fasten the project construction.
In the project, most of the sub-projects accomplished their physical construction and put into operation
within 1 or 2 years which is much shorter than the project with the same nature but using the traditional
on-lending method. Furthermore, since the procurement of the project is conducted by sub-borrowers under
the technical support of CTICED, disputes and discrepant regarding the procurement arrangement that
often happened in other World Bank projects have been rarely seen in this project.

8.1.3    Project design. The project design was in accordance with government agricultural and industrial
restructuring strategy and most of the subprojects selected were of the first priority under the local
governments general program which was liable to get government policy and financial support.

8.2      Negative lessons learned

8.2.1    Lessons of selecting on-lending mechanism and PFI. One of the project objectives is to strengthen
the long term lending ability of CTICED. Since CTICED was closed after two years of project



                                                     - 34 -

implementation, the accomplishment of this objective was substantially affected. As a non-banking
financial institution established during the economic transition period, naturally, uncertainties and risks
existed in its operations. Unfortunately, adequate awareness lacks during the project appraisal.

8.2.2    On-lending through PFI increased the loan cost for sub-borrowers. The original terms of 20
years maturity with standard interest rate f LIBOR based US dollar single currency was shortened to 7
years with IBRD rate plus a spread of 2.4 percentage points. Most sub-borrower thought the spread was
too high.

8.2.3    Project management arrangement.

8.2.3.1 As designed in SAR, PMO was also set in MOA to provide technical and policy advice to the
project. As result of poor coordination, MOA did not get enough information of the project and therefore
could not effectively play its role in such kind of things like sub-projects selection and technical and policy
guidance. Also, as CTICED was not familiar with the background of the SF and agricultural sector and
were not able to provide technical and policy guidance regarding SFS and enterprise reform, which in turn
affected the reform progress of the project in certain extent.

8.2.3.2 The nature of PFI determined that CTICED focused mainly on loan repayment ability or short term
financial rate return of the project enterprises rather than the long term development such as setting up
development strategy and strengthening management capability, etc. Lack of a project coordinating agency
incorporated in project management organization system to take care of reform component partly caused
unsatisfactory progress monitoring and evaluation and regular project progress reporting.

8.2.4    The weakness in project design. Paragraph 2.2.2 listed some of the weakness in project design.
Inadequate capacity building and human resource development was one of the most important among
others. Although the World Bank recognized that shortage of enterprise management personnel was the
major risk of the project during the project design, enough effort was not paid in this regard.




                                                      - 35 -

                                               Basic Information for Sub-Projects
                                                   Cost of Sub-project       Construction Period                     On-lending Terms
No.              Sub-project               Total Cost IBRD Loan       IBRD                              Contract         Maturity    Grace Period
                                                                             Year      Period
                                           (US$'000) (US$'000) Loan/Total                                Period       Period (Years)  (Years)
1  Guangdong Baole Infant Diaper               2,822.25                0.0%    1  6/18/98--6/18/99  6/18/98--6/18/03         5            1

2  Guangdong Xinyi Mail Sugar                  8,071.68     3,900.00  48.3%    1  6/23/98--6/23/99  6/23/98--6/23/03         5            1

3  Fujian Zhangpu Citrus                       6,571.74     2,091.30   31.8%   2  6/30/98--6/30/00  6/30/98--6/30/04         6           2

4  Fujian Fu'an Tea Product                    1,674.09     1,624.00  97.0%    2  6/30/98--6/30/00  6/30/98--6/30/04         6           2

5  Fujian Zhao'an Litchi Orchard               5,293.42     2,060.00  38.9%    2  6/30/98--6/30/00  6/30/98--6/30/04         6           2

6  Inner Mongolia Grain                        12,079.11    6,230.00   51.6%   2  7/1/98--7/1/00    7/1/98--7/1/04           6           2

7  Hunan Dongtin Lake Irrigation               5,205.43     2,500.00  48.0%    2  7/7/98--7/7/00    7/7/98--7/7/04           6           2

8  Guangdong Huadu Litchi                      4,773.46     2,250.00   47.1%   2  8/3/98--8/3/00    8/3/98--8/3/05           7           2

9  Dalian Sanhuan Medicine                    12,109.90     2,220.00   18.3%   2  8/31/98--8/31/00  8/31/98--8/31/04         6           2

10 Guangdong Maoming Micro-Crystal Glass      14,879.35     4,580.00  30.8%    1  7/20/98--7/20/99  7/20/98--7/20/03         5            1

11 Guangdong Yantang Dairy                     6,008.45     1,900.00   31.6%   1  9/2/98--9/2/99    9/2/98--9/2/03           5            1

12 Guangdong Zhanjiang Sisal                   11,053.14    2,500.00  22.6%    3  12/10/98-12/10/01 12/10/98-12/10/04        6           2

13 Jiangsu Shengyang Timber Processing         6,909.30     2,500.00  36.2%    1  10/12/98-10/12/99 10/12/98-10/12/03        5           2

14 Yinchuan Yinguangsha Grape                 15,351.45     4,980.00  32.4%    2  10/16/98-10/16/00 10/16/98-10/16/04        6           2

15 Guangxi Sisal                               2,940.69     1,500.00   51.0%   1  2/10/99--2/10/00  2/10/99--2/10/04         5            1

16 Hainan Luoniushan Market                   18,617.90       100.00   0.5%    2  7/31/99--7/31/01  7/31/99--7/31/06         6           2

17 Guangxi Zhongxin Guo'an Shrimp             10,124.40     4,600.00  45.5%    1  8/5/99--8/5/00    8/5/99--8/5/03           4            1

18 Jiangsu Kesheng Pharmaceutical              7,147.95     2,500.00  35.0%    2  9/26/99--9/26/01  9/26/99--9/26/05         6           2

19 Hainan Sanya Timber Processing             20,845.41     2,000.00   9.6%    3  7/95---7/98       10/15/99-10/14/00        1            1

20 Dalian Dairy                                2,406.05      867.00   36.0%    1  2/22/00--2/22/01  2/22/00--2/22/05         5            1

21 Jiangsu Weisang Chestnut Flour              2,855.07     2,364.15  82.8%    1  3/20/00--3/20/01  3/20/00--3/20/04         4            1

22 Xinjiang Land Reclaim                       6,060.39       110.00   1.8%    2  5/19/00--5/19/02  5/19/00--5/19/05         5           2

23 Fujian Zhongrun Tangerine Shaddock          5,704.10     1,802.90   31.6%   2  1999                                       7           2

24 Shandong Guangbei Dairy                     4,896.51      840.00    17.2%   1  1998                                       7           2

25 Zhejiang Ningbo Squid Fishing               5,981.51     2,650.00  44.3%    1  1998-1999

26 Zhejiang Xiaoshan Fast-frozen Vegetable     3,536.23      735.02   20.8%    1  1998                                       4            1

27 TA for CTICED                                   350                 0.0%

   Total                                   204,268.98    59,404.37    29.1%


  Report Date: May 28, 2003




                                                                    - 36 -

- 37 -

