Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4309 CHA
Loan Agreement
(State Farms Commercialization Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 12, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4309 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by China Trust and Investment Corporation 
for Economic Development (CTICED) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CTICED the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
CTICED;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, or (g) 
by the date specified in Part 
B.4(d) of Section II of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of 
any portion of the Loan, (i) have 
received no applications or requests under Part B.4(b) or 
Part B.4(c) of said 
Section II or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the 
Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower 
to 
submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as 
the 
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.  Upon the 
giving of such 
notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
"CTICED" means the China Trust and Investment Corporation for Economic 
Development, a state-owned non-bank financial institution established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower and in accordance with the CTICED Basic Documents.
(c)
"CTICED Basic Documents" means:  (i) the Charter of CTICED, approved by 
the People’s Bank of China (PBC) in 1991; (ii) License to Conduct Financial Services, 
dated October 18, 1991 issued by PBC; (iii) Financial Institution Legal Entity License 
No. K15711000019, dated May 27, 1997, issued by PBC; (iv) Business License No. 
1000787-5, dated May 24, 1993, issued by the Borrower’s State Administration of 
Industry and Commerce; and (v) License to Conduct Foreign Exchange Operations set 
forth in Document No. 384 (1997) dated July 29, 1997, issued by the Borrower’s State 
Foreign Exchange Administration Bureau; as the same may be amended and renewed from 
time to time.
(d)
"MOA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, and any successor 
thereto.
(e)
"Participating Provinces" means such provinces, autonomous regions and 
directly-administered municipalities of the Borrower as may be selected from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; and "Participating Province" 
means any of the Participating Provinces.
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CTICED, of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
Page  3
(g)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(i)
"State Farm Enterprise" means any enterprise operating in the territory 
of a Participating Province of which 20% or more of the outstanding voting stock or 
other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by the State Farms 
Bureau of MOA or by a governmental agency or enterprise operating under the 
supervisory authority of said State Farms Bureau.
(j)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by CTICED out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to a State Farm Enterprise for a Sub-project.
(k)
"Sub-project" means a specific investment project under Part A of the 
Project to be carried out by a State Farm Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a 
Sub-loan.
(l)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CTICED pursuant to Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by CTICED on account of withdrawals 
made by State Farm Enterprises under Sub-loans to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Sub-projects in respect of which withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part 
B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
Page  4
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan 
Agreement, shall cause CTICED to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of CTICED therein set forth, shall take or cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CTICED to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the actions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement in order to ensure the 
proper implementation of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
Page  5
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by  
CTICED pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, integrating 
the plan prepared by CTICED pursuant to Section 2.03(b) of the Project Agreement, for 
the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts adequate to reflect 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing principles 
acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CTICED shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Page  6
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CTICED will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The CTICED Basic Documents shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CTICED to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CTICED or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in Section 5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and 
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
The events specified in Sections 5.01(c) and 5.01(d) of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and CTICED.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CTICED 
and is legally binding upon CTICED in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and CTICED and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CTICED in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
Page  7
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
 Loan Allocated
% of
   (Expressed 
  Expenditures
Category
   in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans
  149,500,000
100% of payments made
by CTICED under Sub-loans
(2)
Goods for Part B
50,000 ) 
100% of foreign
of the Project
) 
expenditures; 100%
) 
of local expenditures
) 
(ex-factory cost); and
) 
75% of local expenditures
) 
for other items procured
 ) 
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
450,000
100%
and training for 
Part B of the Project
    __________
TOTAL
   150,000,000
Page  8
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided that expenditures 
in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for 
goods or services supplied from said Region shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement (i) by CTICED under 
Sub-loans or (ii) for expenditures for Part B of the Project, except that withdrawals, 
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000 may be made on 
account of any such payments made before that date but after December 1, 1996; or
(b) 
a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Section II of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require the following withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower:
(a)
withdrawals under Category (1) for payments made under Sub-loans;
(b)
withdrawals under Category (2) for expenditures for goods; and
(c)
withdrawals under Category (3) for expenditures for (i) consultants’ 
services provided under contracts awarded to individuals costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each and (ii) training.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in: (1) expanding the productive 
capacity, and strengthening of the organization and management, of enterprises 
operating within the Borrower’s state farms system; and (2) further developing the 
Borrower’s rural finance system through strengthening of the institutional 
capabilities of CTICED.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Sub-loans
The financing, through the provision of Sub-loans by CTICED, of investment 
projects to expand the productive capacity of State Farm Enterprises.
Part B:
CTICED Institutional Strengthening
Development and implementation of a program to strengthen the institutional 
capabilities of CTICED, such program to include:  (1) training programs for staff in 
project analysis and supervision and portfolio management; (2) development and 
adoption of a strategic plan for CTICED, development and application of a credit 
manual, standardized loan documentation and policies and procedures for disbursements 
and external audits and further development of a management information system; (3) 
strengthening of CTICED’s organization in the areas of credit and internal audit 
operations; and (4) provision of equipment required for said program.
Page  9
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*    
November 15, 2003
3,165,000 
May 15, 2004
3,260,000 
November 15, 2004
3,355,000 
May 15, 2005
3,455,000 
November 15, 2005
3,560,000 
May 15, 2006
3,665,000 
November 15, 2006
3,775,000 
May 15, 2007
3,885,000 
November 15, 2007
4,000,000 
May 15, 2008
4,120,000 
November 15, 2008
4,245,000 
May 15, 2009
4,370,000 
November 15, 2009
4,500,000 
May 15, 2010
4,635,000 
November 15, 2010
4,770,000 
May 15, 2011 
4,915,000 
November 15, 2011
5,060,000 
May 15, 2012
5,210,000 
November 15, 2012
5,365,000 
May 15, 2013
5,525,000 
November 15, 2013
5,690,000 
May 15, 2014
5,860,000 
November 15, 2014
6,035,000 
May 15, 2015
6,215,000 
November 15, 2015
6,400,000 
May 15, 2016
6,590,000 
November 15, 2016
6,785,000 
May 15, 2017
6,985,000 
November 15, 2017
7,195,000 
May 15, 2018
7,410,000
TOTAL
     150,000,000
_________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
A.
Project Oversight
In order to ensure the proper oversight of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, with functions, composition 
and resources acceptable to the Bank, a Project oversight office within the Foreign 
Economic Cooperation Center of MOA and headed by a Director, to be responsible for (a) 
providing policy guidance and technical assistance to State Farm Enterprises in 
developing Sub-projects, (b) providing policy guidance and technical assistance to 
CTICED in supervising Sub-projects, (c) monitoring the implementation of any 
resettlement plans required pursuant to Part B.1(b)(iii) of Section II of Schedule 1 
to the Project Agreement and (d) liaising between MOA and other agencies involved in 
Page  10
Project implementation.
B.
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to CTICED under a subsidiary 
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CTICED, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include the 
following principal terms:
(a)
The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated and 
repaid in Dollars.
(b)
The Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate equal to the rate 
applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(c)
The Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period not to exceed fifteen 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five years.
2.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3).
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means:
(i)
expenditures in respect of amounts paid by CTICED under Sub-loans 
and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time 
to time to 
Category (1) in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; provided, however, that 
notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.4 
of Section II of Schedule 
1 to the Project Agreement, payments for 
expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans (as 
defined in said Part) may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank 
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof, 
but such expenditures shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the 
Bank 
shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and 
(ii)
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required 
for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Categories (2) 
and (3) in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $45,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  11
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at 
such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 
2.02(a) of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank; the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
Page  12
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
