                   INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                         RESTRUCTURING STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 04/17/2012                                   Report No.: AC5639
1. Basic Project Data
Country: Brazil                              Project ID: P089011
Project Name: BR Municipal APL1: Uberaba
Task Team Leader: Juliana Menezes Garrido Pereira
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 8, 2005      Estimated Board Date: March 21, 2007
Managing Unit: LCSUW                         Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program
                                             Loan
Sector: Flood protection (41%);Sewerage (31%);Water supply (15%);Sub-national
government administration (12%);Other social services (1%)
Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (29%);Other urban
development (29%);Water resource management (14%);Environmental policies and
institutions (14%);Urban services and housing for the poor (14%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):December 30, 1899
IDA Amount (US$m.):              0
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0
Other financing amounts by source:
         Borrower                                                     60.07
                                                                      60.07
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment
Simplified Processing                        Simple []           Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                  Yes [ ]    No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
To promote better living conditions for all residents of the municipality of Uberaba
through the promotion of integrated urban sanitation, environmental preservation, and
expanded parks, recreational and cultural opportunities.

 Overall indicators of success will include:
 •     Guarantee of adequate water supply while maintaining Uberaba River flow at
minimum levels required under environmental legislation;
 •     Improvement of the Water Quality Index of Uberaba River; and,
 •     Citizen understanding of environmental problems and satisfaction with
environmental services (WS&S, drainage, parks) (survey).

3. Project Description
Background: The Uberaba River Basin extends for approximately 150 km, passing
through the municipalities of Uberaba, Verissimo, Conceição das Alagoas and Planura. It
is an important water source for agriculture, industry and consumption and is a tributary
to the Rio Grande River. Water quality varies, particularly once it passes through the
urbanized portion of the municipality of Uberaba, where it fails to conform to Class 2
quality levels. This is due primarily to the direct dumping of untreated sewage into the
river (downstream from the extraction source the city uses as its main sources of drinking
water) by the municipality of Uberaba, impacting water quality downstream, including
the Grande river.

  Changing land uses over the years has contributed substantially to the degradation of the
river’s water quality. In the 1960’s 4 of land in the basin was covered by native
vegetation. By the 1990s this was reduced to less than 20%, with most of that land
converting to agricultural and grazing lands, and urbanization. The changing land uses,
deforestation and soil erosion have also contributed to the worsening water quality of the
Uberaba River and loss of biodiversity resulting in the need to better manage the basin’s
natural resources and land uses. Protection of the basin’s water resources, and other
natural resources is a priority of the municipal government, for reasons of ensuring a
viable, and sustainable water source for the community and to prevent the further general
decline of the natural resources of the area, and ensure a sustainable mix of uses in the
Environmental Protection Area (APA) within the basin corresponding to the municipality
of Uberaba, it’s been supported under the project.

 Key to the municipality’s integrated water resources management/urban environmental
sanitation strategy is to ensure a high-qualit and reliable water supply and sanitation
service (WS&S) for the residents of the municipality, now and into the future. WS&S
services are provided by the Centro Operacional de Desenvolvimento e Saneamento de
Uberaba (CODAU), an autonomous, municipal agency. Water Supply Coverage is high
at 99%, with micro-metering approaching this same high percentage. Water supply is
provided through Uberaba reservoir, with supplemental supply through deep wells.
Treatment is conventional and the distribution systems adequate, but with problems of
water losses, particularly in the older central city. Following a severe water supply crisis
in 2002 induced by severe seasonal draught conditions, CODAU began supplementing its
water supply via the extraction of water from the Claro River, a stop gap measure.

 To prevent a future crisis (one that would be likely without increases in available
supplies) there is a need to increase the security of the city’s water supply through more
permanent means. Making permanent the transfer of water from the Claro river to the
Uberaba river is one of the most viable option economically, and the most
environmentally sensitive. The supplemental source is only necessary during severe dry
conditions, occurring only about 4% of the time. The Municipality will finance this
intervention with support from the Federal Government’s resources. The project is
supporting improvements to the current system t increase water availability by supporting
activities to reduce water loss and improve current available infrastructure conditions.

  Yet another leg of the municipality’s integrated strategy is to treat 100% of the collected
sewage in the municipality. Currently 95% of sewage is collected, but less than 10% of it
is treated. About 90% of the collected sewage is discharged untreated into the Uberaba
and Conquistinha rivers. The Uberaba River is a major tributary to the Grande River, an
important water source in Brazil. Upstream of the extraction point for the city’s water
supply, the Uberaba River is of high quality at Class 2. Further downstream beginning at
the point of the discharge of raw sewage, the river quality deteriorates rapidly to class 4,
and improves only to class 3 by the time it reaches the Grande River. Improving the
Uberaba and Conquistinha river quality to class 3 will result from the construction of two
waste water treatment plants that will treat 100% of the collected sewage.

  The deterioration of the water quality of the Uberaba River is exacerbated by the severe
macro drainage problems of the city, in particular in the city center. Moreover, the city’s
macro-drainage problems lead to regular, severe flooding in much of the city center,
resulting in high levels of property damage, lost commercial business, the snarling of
traffic and occasional human injury. Flooding is so common and severe in the city center,
that merchants, commercial establishments and other buildings there have devised
‘personal dikes’ in an attempt to divert water from entering their establishments. Retail
goods are routinely kept eleva off the floor to prevent damage during periods of flooding.
The causes of the flooding are mostly man-made due to the covering of once open
drainage canals. The project has included investments in increasing macro-drainage and
micro-drainage capacity in order to reduce the incidence of flooding in the city center and
to improve the water quality of the Uberaba River. These investments will also provide
health improvements by eliminating the mixing of wastewater with storm water.

 Rounding out the water resources/urban environmental sanitation strategy for the
municipality is a comprehensive and integrated approach to planning and environmental
management. The municipality had finalized a process of undertaking a participatory
planning process to update the 1991 Urban Master Plan. This process began in 2000 has
been led by the Secretariat of Planning and the Municipal Council for Urban
Development Planning and Environment, and has been overseen by the Municipal
Council of Uberaba. The plan supports all the actions proposed in the Agua Viva project,
and has served as an instrument to provide for more sustainable long-term development
of the city and the protection of the municipality’s most precious natural resources
through support of an Environmental Protection Area (APA) to protect principally the
water quality of the Uberaba River. Related to this integrated approach to urban
environmental sanitation, is the closing of the controlled land-fill and the opening and
operation of the new sanitary land-fill. While this new land fill is not financed under the
project, it helps to complete the integrated package of WS&S, solid waste management,
drainage, urban planning and environmental protection. The use of Carbon Credits to
fund operations of the sanitary landfill was discussed with the Bank representative in
charge of the fund. However, it was determined that the use of such funds would not be
feasible, in part because the aggressive recycling program of the municipality has already
greatly reduced gas emissions.

 Finally, to further improve quality of life in the municipality, the project has included
several parks and cultural components. This has been addressing a critical lack of
recreational space in the city while also serving an environmental function. In addition,
the support of the Llewellyn Ivor Price Paleontology Research Center has helped to
preserve a rich cultural asset and an important research center. Uberaba is home to one of
the world’s richest deposits of pre-historic fossils, including some unique species of
dinosaurs.

  Restructuring. This Level One Restructuring Package responds to the request of the
Municipality of Uberaba to encompass the following changes: (i) reduction in scope,
specifically related to water supply activities under Component 1 and a change in the
name of the Park under Component 2; (ii) revision of the results framework to reflect the
proposed reduced scope and to refine targets to the actual project’s expected results; (iii)
application of the Bank’s safeguard policy OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement linked to
land acquisition activities, with no relocation of people nor displacement of economic
activities; (iv) increase in the Project’s total cost through an increase of counterpart
funds; (v) minor reallocation of funds between categories; and (vi) updating of the
Financial Management reporting instrument for the project. In addition, this paper
corrects a typing error on the safeguard table of the original project documents in which
the box related to the safeguard policy OP 4.37 on Safety of Dams was not checked,
despite the fact that the policy itself was triggered during project preparation and
indicated as such in the Project documentation.
  Most activities planned under the project have been concluded or are underway with
funds already secured and in full compliance with Bank’s safeguard policies. However, in
the Water Supply subcomponent, there are activities without funding available or which
are financed at 100 percent with counterpart funds but which are yet to be procured
and/or have their engineering designs still at the development stage. Considering the
resource and implementation time limitations, some water supply activities planned under
the Environmental Sanitation component therefore needed to be removed from the
project scope. These reductions impact Water Supply subcomponent referring to (i) the
regularization of the flow of the Uberaba River by making permanent the seasonal
transfers of water from the Claro River to the Uberaba River, which would be removed;
and (ii) to the modernization of CODAU’s commercial operations and the automation of
their water supply system. Although seemingly substantial, the reduction in scope does
not affect the achievement of the PDO, as Project activities already concluded or
underway have already contributed to the improvement in the delivery of water services.
The city has not been impacted by water rationing and the Uberaba river flow has been
maintained at the environmentally required level. In addition, the restructuring is an
opportunity to correct the name of the park from “Parque da Cidade? to “Parque das
Lajes?.


 As a result of the restructuring, the revised specific project components and associated
costs would include the following:

 1 - Environmental Sanitation: This component includes three subcomponents, and has a
total cost (including contingencies) estimated at US$72.26 million. It includes
design/engineering, works and expropriation costs (the latter, paid with counterpart
resources only).
  (A) Waste Water Collection and Treatment: This subcomponent includes: (i)
engineering designs for subcomponent’s activities, Uberaba wastewater conveyance
system and wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and Conquistinha wastewater
conveyance system which all have been concluded; (ii) the Conquistinha WWTP which
is 20 percent concluded and is expected to be finished by June 2013; and (iii) 26 km of
wastewater interceptors out of which 74 percent have been concluded and works are
expected to be finalized by June 2013. This subcomponent has a total estimated cost of
US$ 39.77 million.

  (B) Urban Drainage: This sub-component includes (i) engineering designs for all
subcomponent’s activities, Leopoldino retention pool and its urbanization which all have
been finalized; (ii) macro drainage works in the urban center is ongoing and is expected
to concluded by June 2013; (iii) micro drainage works in six key micro basins is 20
percent completed, and expected to be finalized by December 2012; (iv) a system of
flood control and alert will be purchased for the Leopoldino retention pool (once the
current system proposal is evaluated by dam safety experts). This system is expected to
be purchased and installed by December 2012; and (v) engineering designs for micro
drainage in key critical areas are being prepared and will be finalized by December 2012.
This subcomponent has a total estimated cost of US$ 27.55 million.

 (C) Water Supply: This sub-component includes (i) engineering designs for
subcomponent’s activities, update of the technical water system cadastre; rehabilitation of
three critical water pipelines; and minor rehabilitation of water treatment plants which
were all concluded; (ii) replacement of 74 percent of 91 thousand micrometers which is
ongoing. This subcomponent has a total estimated cost of US$ 4.94 million.

 2 - Environmental and Cultural Preservation and Recovery: this component includes (i)
the urbanization of the Lajes stream, creation of the Lajes urban Park and a business plan
for the Live Fossil Project which have been concluded, (ii) monitoring of water resources
which is ongoing; (iii) the development of a management plan for a portion of the
Uberaba Environmental Protection Area (APA) (Terms of Reference is being prepared);
and the implementation of main recovery actions recommended by said plan. These
activities are expected to be concluded by December 2012. This component has a total
estimated cost of US$ 2.30 million.

 3 - Planning and Management: This component includes (i) programs of environmental
education which have been developed and are being used by the Municipality during
ongoing environmental training events and social communication activities with the
population at large and are considered as best practice by the Bank; (ii) the Secretary of
Environment’s capacity to start evaluating and issuing environmental licenses which has
been strengthened; and (iii) capacity building activities to the Secretariats of Environment
and Tourism, Planning and Infrastructure which have been implemented. This
component is also financing aspects related to project management. This component has
a total estimated cost of US$ 2.74 million.
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project is located in the Uberaba River Basin, in the Municipality of Uberaba, State
of Minas Gerais, Brazil. The project intervention has been physically concentrated in the
Uberaba River basin and the Conquistinha River basin. Investments were primarily in the
urbanized area, except for the construction of the wastewater treatment plants. The
Uberaba River Basin environmental protection area will benefit under the Project, for
better management and from improved river water quality.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Ms Soraya Simao Melgaco (LCSSO)
   Mr Jose Alexandre Monteiro Fortes (LCSUW)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                              Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                         X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                 X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                     X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                      X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                          X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                   X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                         X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                  X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
The Project was rated category A, pursuant to the environmental policies of the World
Bank, and the following Safeguards were triggered since project preparation: (i)
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01); (ii) Natural Habitats (OP 4.04); (iii) Physical
Cultural Resources (OP 4.11); and (iv) Safety of Dams (OP 4.37). As part of the
restructuring, the Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) safeguard has also been triggered.
  Project implementation is performing satisfactorily regarding safeguard-related aspects.
It is properly addressing the impacts related to these safeguards, including the
implementation of mitigating measures.

 OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment - An Environmental Assessment Report was
prepared in compliance with the environmental policies of the Bank, applicable to
Category A projects. The Project comprises interventions related to the improvement of
environmental sanitation systems (water supply and sanitary sewage), flood control in the
city center, environmental recovery of the Uberaba river basin, which has been legally
defined as an environmental protection area, measures to support the preservation of
city’s cultural inheritance, construction of an urban park, as well as complementary
actions in planning, outreach and management. No large scale, significant and/or
irreversible impacts have been identified. The proposed mitigation measures of the
project’s negative impacts have been included in an Environmental Management Plan,
which is referenced in this summary and has been satisfactorily addressed during project
implementation.

 OP 4.04 Natural Habitats - The Safeguard Policy for Natural Habitat was triggered by
the Agua Viva Project because of the proposed interventions in the Uberaba river’s
Environmental Protection Area (APA). The APA is a maintenance unit of
environmentally sustainable use and in permanent preservation (areas of 30 m of each
side of the seasonal bed of watercourses) according to the Forest Code.

 The APA was organized with the objective of protecting the water resources of the basin
as the main water supply source of the city of Uberaba. Activities planned in the APA
include the development of a management plan for a portion of the APA which has most
problems with soil contamination. The management plan is expected to carry out a
diagnosis, propose the zoning of the area, create norms for its sustainable use, and
propose recovery actions and a management framework for the area. Key strategic
recommended recovery interventions would be implemented by the Project. This plan
and the interventions would be considered as pilots to replicate throughout the APA.
 Regarding the intervention in the permanently protected areas, they are limited to the
interceptor of the left margin of Uberaba and Conquistinha Rivers, which has already
been constructed, which are out of the urban area; and, to the implantation of the linear
park along the Lajes’ stream, deemed a compensatory measure, which is also already
concluded. The environmental law allows the undertaking of these kinds of actions in the
permanently protected areas. In addition, recovery measures have already been identified
and are being undertaken in the area affected by the already constructed interceptors,
including re-vegetation. During project implementation, OP 4.04 and licensing demands
and conditions have been addressed.

  OP 4.11 Physical Cultural Resources - The Physical Cultural Resources Safeguard was
triggered by the Agua Viva Project due to the fact that Uberaba is part of one of the
largest and more important paleontology sites in Brazil, with fossil records dated from 65
to 80 million years. Although the interventions expected by the Project are located in
areas of non-potential occurrence of fossiliferous deposits, the Project includes special
procedures which has been adopted and are being implemented during the construction
phase with the support and supervision of a paleontology center. These procedures
comprised in the Environmental Manual of Construction and applied during project
implementation include foresee: (i) previous field inspection (before issuance of the
notice to bid for the works) of all expected interventions by a team from the
Paleontological Center to evaluate the possibility of sites’ occurrences and the measures
to be adopted; (ii) definition of the chance find procedures, including trainin of the
contractor’s team, provision of “what to do in the case of? booklets, etc. These
procedures have been followed during implementation with close supervision by the
Bank.
 OP 4.37 Safety of Dams – The datasheet (page 47) and safeguard table (page 68) on the
Uberaba Project Appraisal Document (in the appraisal document of the Brazil Municipal
Lending - APL - Program) both show that OP 4.37 on Safety of Dams was triggered as is
the case; however, the corresponding box in the Appraisal Stage Integrated Safeguards
Data Sheet (ISDS) was not checked due to a typing error. An assessment of the dam
safety aspects has been carried out through a panel of experts during Project preparation,
and its results were taken into consideration to define project supported activities. During
Project implementation, a panel of experts has already been contracted to provide support
to key project activities regarding the Leopoldino retention pool, as recommended in said
assessment.

 During Project preparation, the studies of the macro drainage alternatives evidenced its
insufficiency as a solution for the reduction of floods in the city within a recurrence
period greater than 5 years. As a result, the option to construct a series of flood retention
basins has been eliminated. That notwithstanding, as one of the basins had already been
built the Panel was charged with evaluating the safety of this basin.

  However, as the ‘as built’ drawings were unavailable, there was insufficient information
to make a safe assessment of the existi basin. The Panel suggested undertaking technical
surveys, review of reference files and site inspection to make an assessment of the safety
of the basin. A Panel was recruited in December 2011 to undertake this analysis and their
final report with any needed corrections will be presented by March 31, 2012. The panel
is also expected to evaluate a system for flood control for the basin to be further
implemented by the Project.

 It is important to emphasize that the studies of macro drainage alternatives, of the water
supply alternatives, as well as the conclusions provided by the Dams Safety Panel itself,
resulted in beneficial changes from a technical, economic and environmental perspective
as regards the conceptual plan for the flood control and water supply systems,
considering the elimination of the dams which were expected to be constructed.

 OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. Project documents (PAD, Loan Agreement and
Environmental Assessment) indicated that land acquisition (to be paid with counterpart
funds) would take place to implement the works under Component 1. Considering the
small scale of this activity and that the large majority of the acquisitions has been carried
out on a voluntary/amicable basis (through land donation, land swaps and purchase at
mutually agreed market prices), the team documented the lands needed to support project
activities and vetted the process by which these lands had been acquired until May 2005
and this was deemed at the time sufficient to comply with the requirements of OP 4.12;
as a result the policy was not formally triggered. During the first years of project
implementation, from July 2008 until December 2009, no major change in land
acquisition was notified by the Municipality.

  In January 2010, as part of the Portfolio Review Exercise, the Bank carried out a formal
assessment of the land acquired by the project. OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement was
triggered and the Municipality prepared a detailed assessment (a retroactive involuntary
Resettlement Action Plan - RAP) of all processes of land acquisition that occurred as a
result of the Project since preparation, as well as an involuntary Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) to govern the possibility of further land acquisition that may be needed
in the course of project implementation . The Bank also provided hands-on support on
social and involuntary resettlement issues to the Borrower. The scheduled Project mid-
term review in March 2010 served as an opportunity to carry out a comprehensive review
of the Project, which identified all necessary adjustments.

 Based on the outcomes of the mid-term review and implementation progress, the
Municipality finalized a comprehensive restructuring proposal, which was officially sent
to the Federal Government for approval in November 2010. New incoming
administrations at Federal and State levels coupled with the increased demands from the
State Governments led to a backlog in the clearance of new lending and restructuring
requests by the Federal Government inter-ministerial committee (COFIEX). As a result,
the restructuring package was only approved by the Federal Government in June 2011.

 The Safeguard Policy for Involuntary Resettlement was triggered by the Agua Viva
Project because of land acquisition needed for the implementation of activities in
components 1 and 2 of the Project, but neither relocation of families nor economic
displacement took place. Project interventions related to the improvement of
environmental sanitation systems, flood control in the city center; and, construction of an
urban park required that the Municipality of Uberaba and CODAU acquired (using its
own resources) a total of 18 land lots (total of 66.30ha of land). The retroactive
Resettlement Action Plan described here assessed the process carried out and was found
in compliance with Bank safeguard requirements.

 As part of its due diligence, the Bank also interviewed a sample of the affected owners
and verified that they were satisfied with the procedures and solutions arrived at during
the acquisition process. These interviews are described in details in the RAP’s ex-post
assessment item.

 Although no more land acquisition is envisaged for the Project until its completion, the
Borrower has prepared an RPF to govern the possibility of further land acquisition that
may be needed in the course of project implementation. The RPF also indicates the
agreed actions and timeline to identify the need for a Process Framework, in case any
involuntary restriction of access is needed as a result of the preparation of the
management plan for a portion of the Uberaba APA.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
The Environmental Assessment evaluated and interpreted the possible environmental
impacts that may be caused by the implementation of the interventions proposed by the
Agua Viva project in its planning, implementing and operational phases and proposed
mitigating measures of the negative impacts and ways to maximize the positive impacts.
This assessment also included impacts of alternatives, even the dismissed ones, as these
analyses were useful in the selection process of the most viable solutions.
 The project has directly or indirectly benefited all residents of the Municipality of
Uberaba.

 Positive Impacts

 During the Planning and the Works Execution Phases

 During the planning phase the main positive impacts are the convening powers of the
project to bring together a number of municipal secretariats and agencies, including the
Secretariats of Works, Planning, Finance, Environment and the municipal water company
(CODAU). In addition, the planning stage served as a means to consult and communicate
with potential winners and losers of the project, and served to identify project benefits
and negative impacts, including compensatory measures. In order to reinforce these
beneficial effects, the project includes social communication actions and a program of
environmental education, community participation and social and environmental
management measures. During the works execution phase, the main positive impact
refers to an increase of employment opportunities to the city’s population and the
possibility to give priority to the hiring of the local labor.

 During the Operation Phase

 The implementation of the Project is expected to yield the following positive benefits:
 •      Improvement in water quality: Lajes stream, Conquistinha stream and Uberaba
River.
 •      Assurance of water supply to the city population even during critical dry seasons.
 •      Significant reduction of the flood events in the city, with the consequential
economic benefits.
 •      Increase in public leisure areas to the population with the consequent social
benefits.

 In addition, the interventions of the Project should yield the following positive impacts:

 Sanitary Sewage System: (i) improvement of the water quality of the Uberaba and
Conquistinha rivers; (ii) improvement of the population’s health conditions. These
impacts shall be reinforced with measures aimed at eliminating the crossed
sewerage/drainage connections and monitoring of water quality. The simulations made
with Qual 2E evidenced the following impacts in relation to dissolved oxygen, under
minimum flow conditions (Q7,10) of the receiver bodies: (i) no treatment: conditions
consistent with class 4 (CONAMA Resolution 20/86), with the possibility of anaerobiosis
along all of the Conquistinha river and along a length of 30 km of the Uberaba River; (ii)
with a primary treatment, the same conditions as the previous ones noticed in the
Conquistinha River and for a length of 10 Km of the Uberaba River; and (iii) treatment
with a 90% reduction efficiency of the organic load resulting in class 2 conditions in the
Uberaba river and class 3 in Conquistinha river. In relation to fecal coliforms, the class 2
conditions shall only occur with the implementation of wastewater treatment periodic (3-
5% of the time) disinfections.

 Water Supply System: (i) Assurance of water supply throughout the year; and (ii)
reduction of the water loss rate in the system. These impacts shall be reinforced by
maintenance measures of the system’s operational units.

  Urban Drainage System: Flood control in the central area of Uberaba is the significant
impact obtained with the implementation of the drainage system proposed in the Project.
The implementation of the drainage system assures the control for a recurrence period of
25 years. This will result in reduction in loss of property, productivity and possible loss
of life. Separation of wastewater from rainwater drainage in the city center, will result in
less pollution in the Lajes stream. Operational and maintenance measures shall reinforce
these benefits.

  Environmental and Cultural Preservation/Recovery: The positive impacts of this
component are: (i) consolidation of cultural values with an environmental focus; (ii)
expansion of the green and leisure areas in the urbanized portion of the municipality; and,
(iii) valorization of real estate near the proposed park.. These impacts shall be reinforced
by the implementation of environmental education measures and the project’s social
communication plan.

 Governing and Planning: The expected actions would result in positive impacts for the
Project’s implementation adding to its sustainability in the long run.

 Negative Impacts

 During the Planning and Works Execution Phases

 During the planning phase the main impacts are related to the generation of expectations
in that part of the population that resides within the Project’s intervention areas. The
development of the measures of social communication, environmental education and
community participation in order to explain project impacts and engage the population
have been the instruments used to ensure full acceptance by the population, considering
the Project’s costs and benefits. In relation to the population’s expectations regarding
potential problems with operation of the wastewater treatment plants in the future, the
local government arranged a visit for community members to Brasilia to study existing
plants there, which use the same system planned for Uberaba.

 During the works execution phases there are typical impacts expected in relation to the
construction activities, especially in urban areas where the interface with the construction
activity and the population is greater. The following impacts are those that are expected
during construction: (i) increase of noise, dust, motor gas; (ii) interdiction of paths,
pavements and accesses; (iii) traffic deviations and traffic of heavy vehicles; (iv) transit
of people strange to neighborhood; (v) damages to public equipment and houses; (vi)
damages to local business; (vii) deterioration of the urban and streetscape conditions;
(viii) risk to the water quality; (ix) security of workers and passers-by, etc . These
impacts are temporary and reversible and have been minimized through the adoption and
implementation of proper preventive measures and constructive procedures which are
detailed in the Environmental Manual of Construction that is an integrated part of the
Environmental Report.

 The need to discharge materials, especially those deriving from the construction of drain
galleries, requires specific measures for the selection and protection of the areas that shall
be used and for the transportation of these materials. There have been defined specific
routes and security conditions for these purposes, which are foreseen in the
Environmental Manual of Construction, and had been applied by the construction firm.

 The sanitary sewerage, flood control and urban park works required land dispossession
and may have caused vegetation suppression and destruction as well as the disturbance of
the fauna, on a smaller scale. Some mitigating measures have been applied in order to
assure fair conditions for the compensation of the real estate owners (as described in the
retroactive RAP) and recovery of the vegetation affected.

 At this restructuring stage, no additional land acquisition or resettlement is expected.
However, if any works under Components 1 and 2 require land dispossession or may
cause any involuntary restriction of access, an involuntary resettlement policy framework
will be followed which describes mitigating measures in order to assure fair conditions
for the compensation of affected families.

 Uberaba’s Municipal District has one of the largest and most important Paleontology
sites in Brazil. During the implantation of th interventions, the soil excavation may
expose a great amount of sedimentary rocks from the cretaceous period, which may
present fossils. The implementation of joint specific procedures with paleontology
centers and those listed in the Environmental Manual of Construction is the proper
measure that is being adopted to avoid damages to this cultural inheritance. In addition,
these procedures guarantee the recovery, rescuing and maintenance of this material.



 During the Operational Phase

 Sanitary Sewage System: The negative impacts of this system during the operational
phase would be limited to: the possibility of obstruction and rupture of the collection
networks, odor emissions in the treatment plants, eventual overflow of effluents to the
watercourses and increase of the sewage fees collected from the attended population.
Measures for the system’s operational improvement and maintenance, creation of a green
belt around the treatment plants and a social communication program have been
implemented in order to mitigate the impacts considered herein.

 Water Supply System: No negative impact has been identified.
  Urban Drainage System: The system causes impacts primarily during the works
execution phase, as it has already been described. During the operation phase the
transference peak flows downstream is the main negative impact of the proposed system.
The system includes the implementation of energy dissipaters to mitigate such impact.

  Uberaba’s Cultural and Environmental Preservation /Recovery: Valorization of real
property changes regarding soil use, environmental degradation, increase in water and
energy consumption, vandalism and sound pollution are foreseeable consequences from
an increase of the number of visitors to a place that is, presently, typically rural. The new
direction of the economic activities requires qualification of the local labor, such as
training to work in hotels, restaurant, execution of handcrafts and tourism guides. These
are impacts that are manageable, and would need to be addressed by the Municipality.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
Wastewater Treatment Alternatives considered. Originally, it was proposed to construct
three new wastewater treatment plants: Uberaba, Conquistinha and Agua Santana.
However, given the difficulties the Agua Santana posed regarding the technical options,
and the possible contamination to the water supply should an accident occur in the site
proposed, it was necessary to search for other alternatives. According to the Conceptual
Study for the Wastewater System in Uberaba, treatment should depend on two
wastewater treatment plants: Rio Uberaba and Rio Conquistinha. As part of the
preliminary studies, four alternative systems were analyzed for both the Conquistinha and
Uberaba systems, considering seven possible treatment alternatives:
  1. Conventional waste stabilization ponds (WSP);
  2. High rate WSP plus polishing pond;
  3. Samambaia WSP:
  4. Up flow Aerator Sludge Blanket (UASB) reactor plus a series of series of aerated
lagoons ;
  5. UASB plus aerated bio-filters;
  6. UASB plus biological filters;
  7. UASB plus ‘Unitank’ system

 After analyzing the alternatives, it was determined that the best option for both
wastewater treatment plants would be a UASB reactor with a series of aerated lagoons.
The waste water treatment plants will be a key factor in improving the water quality and
class rating on the Uberaba River and Conquistinha stream.

 Urban Drainage Alternatives: Previously, the municipality developed a Plan for the
Control of Urban Floods. Those hydrological and hydraulic studies recommended the
implantation of 4 retention basins to dampen peak flows so as to reduce them to a level
consistent with the discharge capacity of the existing macro drainage system. One of
these basins, the largest one (Leopoldino de Oliveira), has been implemented previously
to Bank involvement in the project. However, during the Project’s preparatory phase new
hydrological and hydraulic studies were prepared by Fundação Cristiano Ottoni of
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais - UFMG (Federal University of Minas Gerais), in
order to: (i) assess the rain water discharge conditions in the main channels and aisles
under a variety or urban development sceneries; (ii) assess current and future risks and
their consequences; (iii) identify flood control and risk reduction alternatives; and (iv)
propose a more advantageous solution considering environmental, technical and
economic criteria. The study proposed several alternatives: construction of retention
basins; and the implementation of additional canals or tunnels in order to increase the
discharge capacity of the flood flows. These alternatives were assessed individually and
jointly in order to determine the best solution from a technical, economic and
environmental perspective.

 The results of the revised hydrological and hydraulic studies show that keeping the
system with the originally proposed configuration of four retention basins would mean
subjecting the population to losses and damages with a non-acceptable recurrence (every
2 years), also involving the risk of losing human lives. The initial proposal of
complementing the existent system with retention basins in the drainage sub-basins of the
Lajes stream also showed itself insufficient to guarantee the flood control with a
recurrence period superior to 5 years. The solution was simply unacceptable.

 Other alternatives were proposed and analyzed in order to guarantee flood control with a
25-year-recurrence. A total of seven alternatives were analyzed, including the current
system. A comparison of the six alternatives to the status quo are indicated below:

 Alternative Estimated Cost                           R$
 Three rain water retention pools and two tunnels     (1) 21,200,000
 Two rain water retention pools and two tunnels       (2) 17,100,000
 Transference of the Grande River Basin               (3) 20,300,000
 Tunnels Connecting GF with SD                        (4) 18,900,000
 Tunnels Connecting GF and FR                         (5) 19,400,000
 Reinforcement of Traditional Galleries               (6) 20,600,000

 Given its technical feasibility, understood risk levels and economic rate of return, the
current option remains the reinforcement of the current system.

  Water Supply Alternatives: New studies were developed during the Project’s
preparatory phase and several additional or substitutiv supply sources were analyzed,
namely: (i) regularization of the Uberaba river’s flow with other dam possibilities; (ii)
use of Claro river, either through the making permanent the current reversion or through
a direct adduction to the water intake point; (iii) supply option using the Grande river;
(iv) water supply capture in Araguari river, and (v) an increase of the number of artesian
wells.

  The studies concluded that the best solution, under the technical, economic and
environmental aspects, would be the permanent implementation of the currently
temporary solution of transposition of the Claro river waters to the Uberaba river basin.
This alternative, which shall be detailed during project execution, shall be submitted to
IGAM in order to obtain the definitive grant for the right of use. It is worth reiterating
that the transposition of the river Claro is the most economically and environmentally
viable of options for augmenting the city’s water supply and is a solution that is only
necessary during severe dr periods (less than 5% of the time). However, during project
restructuring this activity was excluded from the Project as the Borrower made a request
to use PAC resources to construct a 40 kilometer water pipeline to transport water from
the Claro River directly to the water treatment station. In addition, this activity would
take longer than the Project timeline, as engineering designs are still to be finalized.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
 The Environmental Assessment Report comprises several mitigating, compensatory and
reinforcement measures to ensure the reduction of negative impacts and the optimization
of the positive ones. These measures, as well as their costs, schedules and responsible
parties constitute the Environmental Management Plan. Most components of the
Environmental Management Plan are included in the engineering projects themselves and
do not require a separate document.

 Environmental Management System: The Agua Viva Project has as Borrower, the
Municipality of Uberaba and as the general coordinating body the Centro Operacional de
Desenvolvimento e Saneamento de Uberaba - CODAU. One Program Management Unit-
UGP - was implemented under the municipality’s coordination and included the
Technical Units. The Environmental and Social Management Procedure - is an integral
part of the project Management System and is liable for: (i) coordinating the social and
environmental measures of the Project; (ii) inspecting, following-up and directing the
execution of the mitigating measures required in the environmental licenses and the
recommendations of the Environmental Manual of Construction; (iii) implementing the
subcomponents of environmental education and institutional strengthening. The costs of
this activity are included in the Project’s Management and Administration.

 Social Communication Program: The objective of this program is to promote
participation of the population which have been directly or indirectly affected by the
interventions, as well as the entire population. The most active segments of the public and
private community have been notified about the Project’s main activities and
implementation phases and have been encouraged to participate actively during the
planning and works phases. CODAU has been in charge of this activity.

 Sanitary and Environmental Education Program: An environmental and sanitary
education program has been implemented, both broadly and locally. The broad approach
aims at educating the general population on environmental values, concepts and
information in order to increase the perception of the importance of the natural
environment, water quality, biodiversity, the public health and, in short, overall health
quality. This is expected to motivate the community to take active participation in
environmental protection and preservation measures. The local approach is more directly
focused on the population most impacted by the physical interventions and aims at
increasing awareness of the value of the investments to take place, and their impact on
the environment and human health. CODAU is implementing this program and it has
been considered by the Bank as best practice.

 Program for the Elimination of Crossed Connections: The implementation of this
program is essential to guarantee that the benefits arising from the improvement of the
water quality comprised in the Project are accomplished. The city’s sewage and rainwater
networks have been constructed along a number of years, often resulting in sewage
discharge into drain pipes and vice-versa. This program is being implemented by
CODAU, simultaneously with the interceptors works of each basin, and it shall be
concluded along with the conclusion of the last interceptor.

  Operation and Security Program of Leopoldino de Oliveira Retention Basin: In
compliance with the recommendations of the Dam Safety Panel, a plan for the operation
and security of the Leopoldino de Oliveira dam will be implemented, in order to ensure:
(i) the correct operation of the equipment in relation to its specific function of preventing
floods; (ii) the security of the solid pieces of stonework of the dam against rupture risk
and downstream damages; (iii) an alert system for all contingencies that may involve
risks for the population; (iv) an assessment of the feasibility and security to use the area
with leisure activities during the dry seasons. The program was initiated in 2004 with the
Dam Safety Panel and will be terminated in 2012 with the implementation of an alert and
security systems.

 Monitoring of the Water Quality of the Uberaba River and Conquistinha Stream: A
monitoring plan of the waters of the Uberaba river basin has been implemented and of the
Conquistinha stream will be implemented. The main objective of this plan shall be the
verification of the efficiency of the measures implemented in the Project for the
improvement of the water quality of these basins. It will also allow identification and
repair of eventual problems concerning the water quality of the basins. Its results may be
integrated to the Brazilian System of Information of water resources. The Environment
Municipal Secretariat - SEMEA - is liable for the implementation of the program. Other
institutions have taken part in the production of information, diagnosis and monitoring of
the waters within this Project scope, namely: FEAM, IGAM and CODAU.

  Construction Environmental Manual: This Manual was developed to be used as a tool
for establishing proper environmental practices to guide the companies to be contracted
for the execution of the project works. It’s been incorporated into the bidding processes
so that the companies have been previously instructed about the requirements. This
Manual, as indicated earlier, also includes procedures to deal Physical Cultural Property
issues. The Project Management Unit and the construction companies have been liable
for its implementation.

 Institutional Strengthening: From the characterization and analysis of the institutional
environment of the Agua Viva Project, a harmonic set of measures was defined
considering the improvement of the legal, technical and management abilities of the
municipal organizations involved in the execution of the Project and in the operation of
the systems resulting from the investments therein. This set of measures is the vehicle for
ensuring the execution of the environmental and social programs of the Agua Viva
Project. As such the Institutional Strengthening Plan has included actions to build
capacity of those entities directly in charge of provision of public services related to
environmental, urban infrastructure and sanitation management. This has included
measures in order to train personnel of these organizations.

  RETROACTIVE INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
  A retroactive RAP was prepared by the Borrower to describe the process carried out to
acquire land to implement Project activities. The Project interventions for the
construction of (i) Uberaba and Conquistinha wastewater conveyance systems and
wastewater treatment plants (WWTP), (ii) Leopoldino retention pool and its urbanization;
and, (iii) the Lajes urban park required that the Municipality of Uberaba acquired (using
its own resources) a total of 18 land lots (total of 66.30ha of land). Neither relocation of
families nor economic displacement took place.

  The 7 rural land lots were all partially acquired, and land owners were families in 6
cases and a university in 1 case. The 8 urban land lots were all regularized and fully
acquired, and 3 urban lots were partially acquired. Urban land owners were families in 8
cases and firms in 3 cases. No vulnerable population has been impacted by the Project.
For all cases, the Borrower offered two alternatives to the affected land owners: (i)
exchange of land; and (ii) indemnification based on market value. As a result of
negotiations, the final agreements were: 5 voluntary exchanges of land; 3 donations to
the municipality; 7 amicable land acquisition wherein the Municipality’s proposed
market price for the purchase of the land was agreeable to the land owner and the
transaction voluntary ; 1 judicial land acquisitions for which a decision has already been
issued and a court-determined compensation was paid and no contestation was
subsequently registered , and 2 cases that are still being negotiated. Except for the 2
cases under negotiation (which started in 2001, long before project preparation), for
which a value has been agreed upon and the form of payment is being negotiated , all
others have been resolved.

 Except for the 2 cases still under negotiations, all cases have been already paid. The
PIU unit is closely monitoring the conclusion of such processes and carrying ex-post
assessments. The RAP also indicates the amount paid for the land acquisition, the timing
of each process, the institutional and monitoring arrangements used in the Project until
now. This RAP was evaluated by the Bank and found in compliance with the
requirements of OP 4.12.

 INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
 The Municipality of Uberaba prepared an involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework
(RPF) to govern the possibility of further land acquisition that may be needed in the
course of project implementation. The framework indicates that resettlement action plans
(RAPs) will be developed in consultation with affected families and in conjunction with
the technical process of planning any new project intervention. Each RAP will be sent to
the Bank for approval prior to the signature of the corresponding works contract. The
RPF presents the Project activities that could possibly generate the need for resettlement
and the distribution of responsibilities with respect to the resettlement activities.
Currently, no land acquisition is expected, nor any reallocation of families.

  The RPF also includes (i) principles and objectives governing resettlement preparation
and implementation; (ii) a social aspects of possible affected population; (iii) a
description of mechanisms for consultations, including grievance redress mechanism; (iv)
resettlement alternatives to be offered with close attention to vulnerable families; (v)
eligibility criteria for defining various categories of affected people; (vi) legal
framework; (vii) organizational procedures, including arrangements for monitoring and
evaluation; and, (viii) a description of the process for preparing and approving
resettlement action plans.

  The RPF also indicates the agreed actions and timeline to identify the need for a Process
Framework, in case any involuntary restriction of access is needed as a result of the
preparation of the management plan for a portion of the Uberaba APA. This RPF was
formally adopted by the client and was considered by the Bank to be in compliance with
its safeguard requirements.

 The Borrower has the capacity to implement safeguard-related issues and the Program
has the technical assistance and other resources needed to implement appropriate
mitigating measures.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During Project preparation, a Social Assessment Report was developed. This social
impact report was designed in consultation with the mayor’s office, relevant specialists
within Uberaba’s municipal government and through a public forum. It presents an
analys of the relevant socio-economic data about the municipality, including a description
of economic trends and descriptions of the provision and quality of public utilities and
public services.

 This socio-economic description of the municipality is supplemented by the mapping of
those areas that have been directly influenced by the major public works under the Agua
Viva project. Areas were defined as being areas of ‘direct social impact’ through a
process combining the mapping of the areas physical distance from a public works
project with a visit to the areas to determine how they were populated.

 Those areas that were populated and directly impacted by public works projects were
then studied through ‘social diagnosis’ to describe the dynamic of the community before
the intervention.

 Based on research and analysis the social impact report presents two types of
conclusions: First, the report compares expected socio-economic outcomes if the Agua-
Viva program is implemented versus expected outcomes if it is not implemented. Second,
the report makes a series of recommendations to mitigate the negative effects of program
implementation and accentuate positive effects. The final Social Assessment Report is
on Project files for more detailed information.

 Public consultations were held during the environmental licensing of the Project’s
components and during the preparation of the Project’s social assessment. They were
complemented by an additional public consultation during Project preparation, which
occurre on February 2, 2005, in which the Environmental Assessment Report was
presented and discussed. In addition, communication, information and environmental
education campaigns are being continuously carry out by the project with an outstanding
performance and material produced.

 The RAP presents a summary of interviews with several affected owners carried out as
part of Bank’s review of the land acquisition process. The interviews showed that the
owners were fully satisfied with the land acquisition procedures and outcomes. The RPF
also includes clear consultation mechanisms to be followed in case of any new
resettlement is needed during Project implementation. The first consolidated version of
the RAP and the RPF was disclosed to the public in the Project’s website
(www.uberaba.mg.gov.br/portal) and in the Bank’s website in March 2010, and the
updated versions of the individual documents were disclosed in March 2012.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                   02/22/2005
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                               01/26/2005
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                02/22/2005
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
                                                                03/16/2005
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                   02/19/2010
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                               02/22/2010
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                10/28/2010
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?               Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)           Yes
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the           Yes
credit/loan?
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of        Yes
critical natural habitats?
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other   Yes
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures
acceptable to the Bank?
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property?             Yes
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential           Yes
adverse impacts on cultural property?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process               Yes
framework (as appropriate) been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector         Yes
Manager review the plan?
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams
Have dam safety plans been prepared?                                            Yes
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts       Yes
(POE) been reviewed and approved by the Bank?
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements         No
been made for public awareness and training?
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's        Yes
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a        Yes
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities     Yes
  been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project   Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the           Yes
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the             Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                              Name                         Date
Task Team Leader:                   Ms Juliana Menezes Garrido Pereira           03/13/2012
Environmental Specialist:           Mr Jose Alexandre Monteiro Fortes            03/13/2012
Social Development Specialist       Ms Soraya Simao Melgaco                      03/13/2012
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:    Mr Francis V. Fragano                        03/23/2012
  Comments: Acting.
Sector Manager:                     Mr Greg J. Browder                           03/28/2012
  Comments: Acting.
