                       Document of
                   The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00002840



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IBRD-74370)

                         ON A

                        LOAN

        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$17.27 MILLION

                        TO THE

            MUNICIPALITY OF UBERABA

           WITH A GUARANTEE FROM THE

          FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE US$240 MILLION

     BRAZIL MUNICIPAL LENDING (APL) PROGRAM




                    March 31, 2014




          Sustainable Development Department
             Brazil Country Management Unit
         Latin America and The Caribbean Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2014)

                           Currency Unit = BRL
                           BRL 1.00 = US$ 0.41
                           US$ 1.00 = BRL 2.42

                              FISCAL YEAR

                       January 1 - December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
BMLP      Brazil Municipal Lending Program
BOD       Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CEA       Centro de Educação Ambiental, environmental education center
CEF       Caixa Economica Federal, a public sector bank
CODAU     The Uberaba Municipal Water Utility
COFIEX    Commission on External Financing
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
EA        Environmental Assessment
ETA       Water Treatment Plant
ETE       Wastewater Treatment Plant
FEAM      Minas Gerais State Environmental Licensing Body
FMR       Financial Management Report
FRL       Federal Responsibility Law
IPTU      Local Property Tax
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
OD        Oxygen Demand
OP        Bank’s Operational Policies
PAC       Federal Government’s Growth Acceleration Program
SIG/MIS   Management Information System
SIL       Sector Investment Loan
SNIS      National System of Water and Sanitation Indicators
UFMG      Federal University of Minas Gerais
UGP/PMU   Project Management Unit
WS&S      Water Supply and Sanitation

                        Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
                      Country Director: Deborah L. Wetzel
                       Sector Manager: Wambui G. Gichuri
                  Project Team Leader: Juliana Garrido
                     ICR Team Leader: Juliana Garrido
                                   BRAZIL
                  BRAZIL MUNICIPAL LENDING PROGRAM, PHASE I
                         UBERABA ÁGUA VIVA PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph
   
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component, and Results Framework ......................................... 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 38
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 46
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 48
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 51
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 55
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 63
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 64
  Annex 10. Calculation of Outcome Rating for Formally Revised Project (as per ICR
  Guidelines, Appendix B) .............................................................................................. 66
  Annex 11. Original Components (as approved) .......................................................... 67
A. Basic Information
                                                                             BR Municipal APL1:
Country:                  Brazil                      Project Name:
                                                                             Uberaba
Project ID:               P089011                     L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-74370
ICR Date:                 02/04/2014                  ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                             MUNICIPALITY OF
Lending Instrument:       APL                         Borrower:
                                                                             UBERABA
Original Total
                          USD 17.27M                  Disbursed Amount:      USD 16.03M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           USD 16.03M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Municipality of Uberaba (Secretariats of Planning and Environment)
CODAU – Municipal Water and Sanitation Utility
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process                Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:           03/18/2004     Effectiveness:            07/30/2008        07/30/2008
Appraisal:                03/08/2005     Restructuring(s):                           07/06/2012
Approval:                 03/21/2007     Mid-term Review:          11/10/2009        03/22/2010
                                         Closing:                  12/31/2012        12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                                    Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                                              Moderate
Bank Performance:                                                            Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                                        Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings                Borrower                        Ratings
                      Moderately Satisfactory                                           Satisfactory
Quality at Entry:                             Government:
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                Satisfactory                          Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                                               No                              Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                                              Yes                                          Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before                      Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:              Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                                        41                  48
Other social services                                                    1                    2
Sub-national government administration                                  12                    3
Wastewater Collection and Transportation                                31                  41
Water supply                                                            15                    6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                           29                  50
Environmental policies and institutions                                 14                   3
Pollution management and environmental health                           29                  41
Urban services and housing for the poor                                 14                   6
Water resource management                                               14                   0

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:            Deborah L. Wetzel                    Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:              Wambui G. Gichuri                    John Henry Stein
Project Team Leader:         Juliana Menezes Garrido Pereira      Dean Cira / Paula Pini
ICR Team Leader:             Juliana Menezes Garrido Pereira
ICR Primary Author:          Suzana Abbott
F. Results Framework Analysis1

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To promote better living conditions for all residents of the municipality of Uberaba
through the promotion of integrated urban sanitation, environmental preservation, and
expanded parks, recreational and cultural opportunities. The Project includes components
in Environmental Sanitation; Environmental and Cultural Preservation and Recovery and
Planning and Management.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
                 Adequate water supply will be guaranteed while maintaining Uberaba River flow
Indicator 1 :
                 at minimum levels required under environmental legislation
                                                                                 Volume of water
                                                                     2/3 of           has been
Value
                 2/3 of Q7,10=490 l/s with                      Q7,10=490 l/s maintained and
(Quantitative or                                   100%
                          rationing                                 without     water rationing was
Qualitative)
                                                                   rationing     not registered for
                                                                                     year 2013.
                                            December 31,        December 31,
Date achieved 2005                                                              December 31, 2013
                                            2012                2012
                 Met. Based on the available data, the minimum level of river water flow has been
Comments
                 maintained in compliance with the relevant environmental legislation, and
(incl. %
                 CODAU did not register any rationing in 2013. In previous years, rationing was
achievement)
                 registered in few city neighborhoods during dry periods.
Indicator 2 : Water Quality Index of Uberaba River Stream
Value
                 2005: WQI Medium and                           WQI Good,
(Quantitative or                            Good                                WQI Bad, Class IV
                 Class IV                                       Class III
Qualitative)
                                            December 31,        December 31,
Date achieved 2005                                                              September 30, 2013
                                            2012                2012
                 Not achieved. The volume (mass) of BOD pollution removed by the wastewater
Comments         treatment plant (WWTP) reached 160,200 (tons/year) in 2013 with 92 percent of
(incl. %         removal (greater than the originally designed target of 90 percent). However,
achievement) river water quality has not yet improved, due to the fact that there are still
                 interceptor sewers to be constructed, and there are external high polluting



1
    Detailed explanation is included in Annex 2.
                discharges occurring upstream of the WWTP that are impacting the river water
                quality. This latest discharge was only identified once the current monitoring
                procedure started. The city environmental secretary, along with the
                environmental prosecutor’s office, has caused the major polluter to reduce the
                release of effluents into the river.

                 Citizen understanding of environmental problems and satisfaction with
Indicator 3 :
                 environmental services (water supply and sanitation, drainage parks).
Value                                      Focus              Focus
                 Focus Group/Survey
(Quantitative or                           Group/Survey       Group/Survey Satisfactory results.
                 Summary
Qualitative)                               Repeats            Repeats
                                           December 31,       December 31,
Date achieved 2005                                                            January 31, 2014
                                           2012               2012
Comments         Met. Beneficiary surveys carried out in November and December 2013 and in
(incl. %         January 2014 have captured positive impressions and satisfaction by the
achievement) municipality’s citizens.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                                Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Occurrence of flooding in the city center in comparison with intensity of rains.
Value
                Flooding with rain TR=2
(Quantitative                              TR=25               TR=25             See comment.
                years
or Qualitative)
                                           December 31,        December 31,
Date achieved 2005                                                               January 31, 2014
                                           2012                2012
                Met. Monitoring of high rain events in the city center that occurred in December
Comments        2013 and January 2014 have shown that those avenues which have received
(incl. %        macro drainage interventions in the city center have not suffered any flood
achievement) impacts. The study to evaluate the recurrence of flooding for different storm
                return periods was not conducted by the Borrower.
Indicator 2 : Change in value of properties in area of influence of flood project.
Value
                                                  +16%         + 16% (due to
(Quantitative Ave=R$37,000 (2007)                                                +244%
                                           (due to works)      works)
or Qualitative)
                                           December 31,        December 31,
Date achieved 2007                                                               January 31, 2014
                                           2012                2012
                Met. According to personnel in charge of the appraisal of property in the
                municipality, the increase in the value of properties in the city center areas was
Comments
                positively impacted by the implementation of the Project’s drainage works in the
(incl. %
                city, which proved to be a very important factor given that the corresponding
achievement)
                areas have not suffered from any flood events since the drainage works were
                implemented.
Indicator 3:    Decrease in water losses
Value
(Quantitative 38%                          20%                 36%            32.8%
or Qualitative)
                                            December 31,        December 31,
Date achieved 2007                                                            December 31, 2012
                                            2012                2012
                Met. All results for water losses were based on the data contained in the Ministry
                of Cities’ national water supply and sanitation database (SNIS) report. The
Comments
                measured indicators for 2012 are still to be reported by CODAU to SNIS. The
(incl. %
                December 2012 data was assessed by a water loss specialist who worked with the
achievement)
                Borrower to evaluate their water loss program. The 2013 water loss data was not
                available at the time the ICR was prepared.
                Percentage of wastewater collected that is treated. (Note: Wastewater collection
Indicator 4:
                coverage in the city is 99%).
Value
(Quantitative 2%                           -                   75%            44%
or Qualitative)
                                            December 31,       December 31,
Date achieved 2007                                                            December 31, 2013
                                            2012               2012
                Partially met. The Uberaba WWTP implemented under the Project, along with
                the existing Capim WWTP and individual septic tanks treat 44 percent of all the
                wastewater currently collected in urban Uberaba. Once the construction of the
Comments        Conquistinha WWTP is concluded, the accumulated amount of collected
(incl. %        wastewater that is treated would reach 60 percent; furthermore, once the sections
achievement)    of the sewerage collectors already constructed under the Project, and those to be
                constructed along with the macro drainage in Santos Dumont and Santa Beatriz
                avenues, are all finally connected to the Uberaba WWTP, this indicator is
                expected to reach 90 percent, thus exceeding the original Project target value.
Indicator 5:    Change in the number of visitors to the Lajes Park (yearly average)
Value
                                                                              72,000 (50,469 in
(Quantitative 0                            >15,000             >15.000
                                                                              2013)
or Qualitative)
                                            December 31,       December 31,
Date achieved 2005                                                              November 30, 2013
                                            2012               2012
                Significantly exceeded. The Park was visited by 38,692 inhabitants in 2009,
Comments
                rising to 93,823 visitors in 2012 and with an average annual visitation rate of
(incl. %
                72,000 per year over the life of the Project, which is far in excess of the Project
achievement)
                target.
                Management plan for a portion of the environmental protection area (APA) of
Indicator 6:
                the Uberaba River is elaborated and main recovery actions are executed.
                                                               Action Plan Action Plan
Value
                No existing plan, 0                            prepared and prepared. Recovery
(Quantitative                                        -
                hectares (ha) recovered                        1,500 ha         activities not yet
or Qualitative)
                                                               recovered        initiated.
                                            December 31,       December 31,
Date achieved 2005                                                              January 31, 2014
                                            2012               2012
                Partially met. The APA Action Plan was prepared and approved by the River
Comments
                Basin Committee. The Action Plan has been used by the Committee to make
(incl. %
                decisions regarding requests by new businesses to establish themselves within
achievement)
                the APA. Key urgent activities have been identified, which are designed to help
               recover the APA environmentally, but their implementation has not yet been
               initiated.
               Share of city environmental licensing applications that are processed by the
Indicator 7:
               Municipality as opposed to the State
Value
(Quantitative 0                          100%                60%             See comment.
or Qualitative)
                                           December 31,        December 31,
Date achieved 2005                                                            December 31, 2013
                                           2012                2012
               Apparently Met. Since June 2012 the Municipal Secretary for Environment has
               started to evaluate and issue licenses (Classes I-IV) at the Municipal level and
               has increased its capacity from 635 processes (in 2012) to 1,132 (in 2013), with
Comments
               an average of 94 requests being processed by the municipal body per month. The
(incl. %
               data of the licensing processes for Uberaba Municipality that are being processed
achievement)
               by the State (related to Classes V and VI) was not available for these periods.
               Therefore, it became impossible to calculate the indicator as defined.

               Population reached by the Environmental Education & Social Communication
Indicator 8:
               Programs
Value
(Quantitative 0                          All                 All             All
or Qualitative)
                                           December 31,         December 31,
Date achieved 2005                                                              December 31, 2013
                                           2012                 2012
               Met. CODAU delivered environmental training events and social
               communication activities for the population at large. It delivered programs both
               at schools and in specially equipped classrooms in the multi-use center for
Comments       environmental education (CEA). Its programs disseminate information on water
(incl. %       management, conservation, on hand washing and tooth brushing (conserving
achievement)   water), and on recycling and making goods from recycled materials. CODAU
               also carried out a very effective social outreach campaign before and during the
               implementation of works in order to inform citizens, provide for complaints, and
               help mitigate the difficulties that construction in the city center would entail.
Indicator 9:   Project implementation goals are met (financial, physical, procurement, etc.)
Value
(Quantitative 0                                    -         All             88%
or Qualitative)
                                           December 31,        December 31,
Date achieved 2005                                                            December 31, 2013
                                           2012                2012
Comments       Substantially achieved. The project listed 43 activities that were to be carried
(incl. %       out, of which only five were not completed by January 2014. These five
achievement)   outstanding activities are all expected to be concluded by December 2015.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                          Actual
          Date ISR
    No.                             DO                            IP                  Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                      (USD millions)
     1    06/05/2007         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                           0.00
     2    12/18/2007     Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                           0.00
                                                           Moderately
     3    04/15/2008           Unsatisfactory                                                       0.00
                                                         Unsatisfactory
     4    10/30/2008         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                             0.00
     5    05/04/2009         Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory                      1.29
     6    05/28/2009         Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory                      1.29
     7    11/16/2009         Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory                      2.92
     8    05/21/2010         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                             4.64
     9    02/13/2011         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                            10.90
    10    07/17/2011         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                            13.28
    11    04/04/2012         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                            16.37
    12    11/12/2012     Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                     16.37
                              Moderately                   Moderately
    13    07/29/2013                                                                              16.03
                            Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at   Amount
                    Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
    Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
                   Approved                Restructuring
       Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
                  PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                             millions
                                                                       (i) application of the Bank’s
                                                                       safeguard policy OP 4.12 on
                                                                       Involuntary Resettlement; (ii)
                                                                       reduction in scope; (iii) revision of
     07/06/2012          -X-         MS         MS          16.372     the results framework; (iv) increase
                                                                       in the Project’s total cost; (v) minor
                                                                       reallocation of funds between
                                                                       categories; and (vi) updating the
                                                                       Project’s Financial Management
                                                                       reporting instrument.




2
 From July 2012 until July 2013, the Project spent resources out of the designated account with no new
advance request. Once the Project closed, the unused amount of USD 0.34 million was returned to the
World Bank account.
Disbursement Profile
                                  BRAZIL
                 BRAZIL MUNICIPAL LENDING PROGRAM, PHASE I
                        UBERABA ÁGUA VIVA PROJECT

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. The Uberaba Água Viva Project (the Project) was the First Phase of the Brazil Municipal
   Lending Program (the Program), a horizontal Adaptable Program Loan (APL). Lending
   operations under the Program were to meet the following eligibility criteria: (i) focus on the
   priorities of urban poverty, environment, economic development, and municipal
   management; (ii) serve as models of innovation in municipal management and provision of
   services, thereby contributing to cross-municipal learning, replication, and federal policy
                                                                   3
   development; and (iii) comply with the Fiscal Responsibility Law .

2. The Municipality of Uberaba - Context: The Municipality of Uberaba is located in the
   southeastern state of Minas Gerais, the second largest state in Brazil in terms of population
   and the third largest economy. Uberaba was the fifth largest municipality in Minas Gerais
   with a population of approximately 251,000 at the time of Appraisal and currently estimated
   at 315,0004. Social indicators revealed important progress and indicators for water supply and
   sanitation (WSS) coverage were equally impressive with nearly 100 percent coverage of both
   water supply and wastewater collection.

3. The Municipality of Uberaba - Sector Background: The Uberaba River Basin is an
   important water source for agriculture, industry and municipal consumption, and a major
   tributary to the Rio Grande River, an important water source. Water quality of the Uberaba
   River varied at the time of Appraisal, particularly once it passed through the urbanized
   portion of the Municipality of Uberaba, where it failed to conform to Class II5 quality levels.
   This was primarily due to direct discharge of untreated wastewater into the river (downstream
   from the extraction source the city uses as its main sources of drinking water) by the
   Municipality of Uberaba. Changing land uses over the years, coupled with deforestation and



3
  Additional controls on sub-national fiscal performance were introduced in debt renegotiation contracts
signed by the Federal government with the States in 1997, and with some of the largest municipalities in
2001. Passed in 2000, the FRL established limits for personnel expenditures and indebtedness at all levels
of government, only allowed new permanent spending mandates if they were based on permanent revenue
increases, and forbade debt refinancing between different levels of government.
4
  IBGE website
5
  The river classes standards are defined by CONAMA, according to its 357/2005 resolution, based on the
requirements of the main water uses. River waters are classified under 5 categories: (1) special class –
waters for human consumption, with disinfection (purified); to the preservation of the natural equilibrium
of aquatic species; and to the preservation of aquatic environments in integrated protection conservation
areas; (ii) Class I: water for the following uses: for human consumption, after simplified treatment; to the
protection of aquatic species, etc.; (iii) Class II - water for the following uses: for human consumption after
conventional treatment; to the protection of aquatic species; to recreational activities with primary contact,
etc; (iv) Class III: water for the following uses: for human consumption after conventional or elaborate
treatment; to irrigation of trees, cereal crops and other forage species; to amateur fishing; etc; (v) Class IV:
waters for the following uses: navigation and landscape harmony.


                                                       1
    soil erosion, had also contributed to the worsening water quality of the Uberaba River and to
    a loss of biodiversity.

4. Water supply and sanitation (WSS) services were provided by the Centro Operacional de
   Distribuição de Águas (CODAU), an autonomous, municipal agency. Water supply coverage
   was high at the time of Appraisal at 99 percent, with micro metering approaching this same
   high level. Water supply was provided through the Uberaba reservoir, with supplemental
   supply through deep wells. Treatment was conventional and the distribution systems adequate,
   but with a problem of high water losses.

5. The Municipality’s goal was to treat 100 percent of the collected wastewater in the
   Municipality. At the time of Appraisal, about 95 percent of wastewater was collected, but less
   than ten percent of it was treated. About 90 percent of the collected wastewater was
   discharged untreated into the Uberaba and Conquistinha Rivers. The deterioration of the
   water quality of the Uberaba River was exacerbated by the city’s severe macro-drainage
   problems, in particular in the city center. Moreover, the city’s macro-drainage problems led
   to regular, severe flooding in much of the city center, resulting in high levels of property
   damage, losses to commercial business, the snarling of traffic, and occasional human injury.
   The causes of the flooding were mostly man-made, resulting, inter alia, from the accelerated
   urban development and the resulting increase in impermeable surfaces. The Municipality’s
   water resources/urban environmental sanitation strategy also contemplated a comprehensive
   and integrated approach to planning and environmental management.

6. At the time of Appraisal, CODAU was a municipal company whose budget was subject to the
   approval of the municipal legislative body. CODAU’s management structure was also
   considered inadequate for a service provider of its size. Revenue collection rates were high
   and expenses low. Despite this, CODAU had historically only invested small amounts in
   water supply and sanitation infrastructure. Productivity indices placed CODAU on par with
   similar sized utilities in Brazil. However, estimates of water losses were considered
   unreliable given the lack of macro metering, the lack of reliability of the micro meters and
   due to the fact that there was no harmonization between CODAU’s physical and commercial
   operations. Rationing during dry periods of the year was common, resulting in intermittent
   water supply in parts of the city.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

7. The Project Development Objective was to promote better living conditions for all residents
   of the Municipality of Uberaba through the promotion of integrated urban sanitation 6 ,
   environmental preservation, and expanded parks, recreational and cultural opportunities.




6
“Integrated urban sanitation” was defined during preparation as comprising water supply, wastewater
management (collection and treatment) and stormwater management.


                                                   2
8. The Key Indicators used in the PAD to measure the Project’s progress towards its PDO were
   the following:

                Table 1: Project development outcomes and key performance indicators.

                       Project Outcomes                               Project Outcome Indicators
       Citizen satisfaction levels pre and post project     Citizen understanding of environmental
        relevant to project objectives (survey including,     problems and satisfaction with environmental
        inter alia, those most affected by Central City       services (WSS, drainage, parks).
        flooding and the poorest populations).

       Improvement in water quality of the Uberaba          Water Quality Index of Uberaba River is
        river and Conquistinha Stream.                        improved;
                                                             Environmental Classification of Uberaba
                                                              River at a point following the discharge of
                                                              treated sewage;

       Water supply guaranteed without compromising         Adequate water supply will be guaranteed
        relevant environmental legislation (principally       while maintaining Uberaba River flow at
        water flow of Uberaba river).                         minimum levels required under
                                                              environmental legislation;


9. The specific indicators, including the Intermediate Results Indicators, by which progress
   under each component was to be measured, are presented in Annex 2.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

10. The Project’s Development Objectives were not revised. However, the Results Indicators
    were revised in a Level I Restructuring approved on July 6, 2012.7 The revisions to the
    Project’s Key Indicators were intended to streamline them and contribute to a better and more
    realistic monitoring of the Project’s achievements and impacts. The specific changes
    introduced in the Restructuring were:

PDO Indicators:
   The two PDO indicators related to the water quality of the Uberaba River were merged
      into one, which avoided repetition and simplified;
   The indicator on water quality was adjusted to focus only on the Uberaba River,
      removing the Conquistinha Stream from the indicator, based on the realization that
      improvements in water quality resulting from the construction of the Conquistinha
      wastewater conveyance system and WWTP would only be verified after project closure;
      and
   The target on water quality classification was changed to Class III, since more precise
      recent measurements had revealed that the then-current water quality classification of the
      Uberaba River was Class V (worse than measured at Appraisal). This change in



7
 World Bank, Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of the Brazil Municipal Lending
Program 1: Uberaba Água Viva Project, Report No. 63727-BR dated June 26, 2012.


                                                        3
        classification would, nevertheless, maintain the same level of incremental improvement
        that the Project had aimed to achieve from the outset.

Intermediate Results Indicators:
     An Indicator was added to Component One to measure the share of the collected
       wastewater that was to be treated as a result of project interventions (which was also a
       core sector indicator);
     An Indicator was added to Component Two to measure the elaboration of a Management
       Plan and the implementation of the main recovery actions for 1,500 ha in the Uberaba
       River Environmental Protection Area (APA);
     The indicator on “loss of treated water” was revised to decrease the anticipated target
       from 20 percent to a more realistic 36 percent. The initial target was too ambitious for the
       type of activities that were being supported by the Project, as well as for the timeframe
       and the resources allocated for their implementation;
     The repetition of water quality indicators from the Intermediate Results portion of the
       Results Framework were removed;
     The indicators on the “change in the number of visitors to the Fossil Research Center”
       and the “donations received by the Center/Museum” were removed as there were no
       activities planned in the Project scope that were directly linked to those results; and
     Minor revisions to other Indicators were performed to clearly state the targets and data
       source in order to facilitate their measurement.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11. The Project was designed to improve the quality of life of the urban population in Uberaba.
    Its main beneficiaries were expected to include: (i) for investments in the wastewater system,
    193,997 inhabitants in the Uberaba Basin and 81,121 inhabitants in the Conquistinha basin;
    (ii) for investments in urban drainage, 3,845 properties registered in the Municipality (3
    percent of total real estate properties in the Municipality, including those of the greatest
    economic value in the city center); (iii) for investments in water supply, the total population
    of Uberaba (275,000 inhabitants); and (iv) for investments in the linear park, approximately
    60,000 inhabitants. These inhabitants were expected to benefit from more reliable WSS
    services, including the elimination of rationing and intermittent water supply during dry
    periods, which was expected to have positive impacts on their quality of life. They would
    also benefit from a reduction in risks and loss to life and property due to reduced flooding,
    from improved environmental conditions and well-being derived from sewage collection and
    treatment, and from increased access to recreational activities. The population of Uberaba
    was also expected to benefit as a whole from improved sustainability of the Project’s
    investments and from other related investments through improved cost recovery (there was a
    low collection of property taxes in those areas of the city subject to periodic flooding) and
    improved institutional capacity of the Municipality and of CODAU.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

12. The Project comprised three components, as described below. A more complete description
    of the Project’s original components is presented in Annex 11.




                                                4
13. Component One: Environmental Sanitation (USD 24.83 million total Project cost8; USD
    13.56 million World Bank financing 9 ) focused on an integrated package of physical
    investments related to urban environmental sanitation. With this component, the Municipality
    would provide treatment to 75 percent of collected wastewater, providing environmental,
    health and well-being benefits to the municipal population and to populations located
    downstream of the Uberaba River. In addition, the city’s severe flood problems would be
    corrected through the implementation of a macro-drainage program that would reduce
    flooding to a 25-year occurrence from the 2-year return period at the time of Appraisal. This
    component would also increase the efficiency and quality of water supply services through a
    series of investments in the water supply and distribution networks. The component included
    the following three subcomponents: (i) Wastewater Collection and Treatment; (ii) Urban
    Drainage; and (iii) Water Supply.

14. Component Two: Environmental and Cultural Preservation and Recovery (USD 0.77
    million total Project cost; USD 0.72 million World Bank financing). This component
    included three actions aimed at improving the quality of life of Uberaba’s inhabitants by
    providing new recreational opportunities; preserving natural resources, in particular the water
    resources associated with the city’s main drinking water source; and expanding the research
    and tourist opportunities associated with the municipality’s rich fossil deposits and the
    research center that supports them. The component included the following three sub-
    components: (i) Environmental Recovery; (ii) The Parque da Cidade (linear park); and (iii)
    Fossil Vivo (live fossil) research center and museum.

15. Component Three: Planning and Management (USD 2.95 million; total Project cost
    financed by the World Bank). This component was designed to improve the capacity of
    municipal government entities. The activities under this component were intended to support
    actions that were directly related to the Project’s core components, and were therefore
    focused on environmental management, planning and project management. It included efforts
    to increase staff capacity in several thematic areas of the Project’s focus, and activities to
    reinforce the municipality’s capacity in the fields of integrated urban sanitation, preservation
    and recovery. The component comprised the following four sub-components: (i) Sanitation
    and Environmental Preservation; (ii) Environmental Education and Social Communication;
    (iii) Institutional Strengthening; and (iv) Project Management.

1.6 Revised Components

16. Project Restructuring reduced the Project scope by dropping two activities under sub-
    component three (Water Supply) of Component One (Environmental Sanitation), which had
    yet to be procured and/or had engineering designs still under preparation at the time of
    restructuring. Due to funding and time limitations encountered during supervision, the
    following two water supply activities were removed from the Project scope: (i) regularization
    of the flow of the Uberaba River by making permanent the seasonal transfers of water from



8
  Complementary activities originally proposed were not included in the project’s PAD costs, which
included the implementation of wastewater works (Conquistinha and Uberaba wastewater conveyance
systems and Treatment Plants) and the Leopoldino Retention Pond – for a total estimated original cost of
USD13.27 million as counterpart financed activities.
9
  Numbers indicated for each component do not considered the front end fee of USD 0.04 million.


                                                   5
     the Claro River to the Uberaba River 10 ; and (ii) modernization of CODAU’s commercial
     operations and the automation of their water supply system11.

1.7 Other significant changes

17. Project Restructuring also introduced the following modifications to the Project (and to the
    Loan Agreement): (i) application of the Bank’s safeguard policy OP4.12 on Involuntary
    Resettlement, with regard to land acquisition activities (no relocation of people nor
    displacement of economic activities were envisaged); (ii) increase in the Project’s total cost
    through an increase of counterpart funds; (iii) minor reallocation of funds between categories
    of expenditure; and (iv) updating of the Project’s Financial Management reporting instrument.
    The Project Paper for the Restructuring also corrected a typing error on the safeguard table of
    the original project documents in which the box related to safeguard policy OP 4.37 on the
    Safety of Dams was inadvertently not checked, even though the policy itself had been
    triggered during Appraisal, as indicated in the PAD’s Datasheet and in the fact that its
    implementation was underway during project preparation and supervision.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18. Rationale for World Bank Involvement: The rationale for World Bank involvement was
    strong. The World Bank had been supporting different approaches to urban and municipal
    development and service provision in Brazil for the preceding years, and had conducted
    extensive analytical work and provided technical assistance in these fields. The Brazil
    Municipal Lending Program APL was an important element for the implementation of a
    municipal lending strategy that was based on this previous work. The Federal Government
    had requested the World Bank’s support in focusing strategically on a number of
    economically important and creditworthy municipalities (each with at least 100,000
    inhabitants). The Bank was seen as uniquely positioned to provide global experience in
    municipal management, promoting a holistic approach to municipal planning and investment.

19. The Municipality of Uberaba met all the criteria for participation under the APL. The
    Municipality was considered committed, with a reputation of strong leadership and good
    local governance. The Project concept was a strong fit with the Program’s broad objective of
    promoting an integrated approach to addressing the urban environmental agenda and was
    expected to serve as an example of how medium-sized municipalities could tackle
    environmental problems, solve infrastructure deficits, improve social conditions, and reduce
    poverty through sustained commitment and good governance.



10
   The Borrower has accessed PAC resources to implement the water transfer from the Claro River to the
Uberaba River. These works are currently estimated at around BRL 66 million to be implemented in 24
months, and are expected to start in April 2014.
11
   The automation of 18 sites of the water supply system was estimated at around BRL 13 million, to
include activities such as technical visits, equipment inspection, development of engineering designs for a
Control and Supervision System, IT system supply and install, staff training and preparation of user
manuals. Improvements to the technical bidding documents are being discussed and finalized by the
Borrower based on recommendations provided by the World Bank team.


                                                    6
20. The Program was designed to contribute to the objectives of the Bank’s 2004-2007 Brazil
    Country Assistance Strategy 12 that emphasized equity, sustainability, competitiveness and
    macroeconomic stability. The Program, as devised, was especially suited to support the
    CAS’s equity pillar through targeted improvements in basic urban services in low-income
    areas, and its sustainability pillar through improvements in water supply, sewerage, drainage,
    reducing risks from flooding and improving urban pollution management and preservation of
    natural areas.

21. Government Commitment and Participatory Processes: The Federal Government showed
    strong ownership of the Program and demonstrated its ownership by, inter alia, articulating
    guiding principles for the selection of participating municipalities. The Borrower
    incorporated stakeholder input into the Project design through stakeholder workshops and
    seminars held during preparation to define the Project’s Results Framework and to identify
    priority actions needed to improve CODAU’s management capacity.

22. Lessons Learned: Both the Program and the Project incorporated lessons learned from earlier
    water supply, sewerage, municipal and urban operations, generally; more specifically: (i)
    took into account the capacity of the implementing agencies by financing the services of a
    management firm to support the Project Management Unit, and by focusing on only three
    implementing agencies, which were all part of the municipal government with a history of
    working well together (CODAU, the Environmental Secretariat and the Planning Secretariat);
    (ii) focused on a single geographical location for project implementation as a successful way
    to finding common objectives among a multi-agency run project, namely the Uberaba River
    basin. The Project was demand driven and its components and activities were proposed by its
    implementing agencies. It included activities aimed at strengthening their capabilities, and the
    Results Agreement emerged from a multi-sector stakeholder workshop.

23. Project Design: The Project design was focused, comprehensive and incorporated the lessons
    described above. A number of technical, environmental and social analyses were carried out
    in the course of project preparation, resulting in the major redesigning of several of the
    projects components. Two important results of this due diligence by the World Bank team
    were: (i) the elimination of the need to construct a new proposed water flow control dam and
    associated reservoir in an environmentally sensitive area of the municipality, which was
    originally presented as an alternative to increase water supply; and (ii) the reconfiguration of
    the original macro drainage scheme that proposed a series of four storm water retention ponds.
    The following aspects of Project design, however, negatively affected its implementation: (i)
    the cost tables did not include costing for important, large works which were to be financed
    with counterpart resources, but which were nonetheless central to the achievement of its
    PDO; (ii) the original disbursement and cost schedules did not take into account that the first
    two years of implementation would be spent in preparing detailed engineering designs for the
    sewerage and drainage which would provide the technical and cost information required for
    procuring the works and which were necessary to allow implementation and disbursements to
    proceed; (iii) the Results Framework was ambitious, especially in expecting that a project
    implemented over 4,5 years, with multiple activities/works needed to produce results, could
    produce the expected outcomes; (iv) CODAU did not have in place the mechanisms and
    instruments needed to monitor outcomes; and (v) most of the land required for the


12
  World Bank, Brazil Country Assistance Strategy 2004-2007, Report No. 27043-BR dated November 10,
2003.


                                                 7
     implementation of the works had not been acquired at the time of loan approval, and the
     project preparation process had not included the elaboration of an involuntary resettlement
     framework to identify the needed procedures if land acquisition would entail the relocation of
     people or displacement of economic activities.

24. Risks and Mitigation Measures: The risk analysis carried out during preparation did not
    consider several risks that materialized during implementation, including: (i) the possibility
    of cost escalations from the Appraisal estimates; (ii) difficulties in obtaining counterpart
    funds; and (iii) issues with a future change in municipal administration. The counterpart
    funds risk was significant given the high share of funding that the Borrower needed to
    provide, both for activities included in the PAD cost estimates and for those not included but
    needed to achieve the PDO. With an implementation period spanning the period of routinely
    scheduled municipal elections, the possible impacts that a change could have brought to
    implementation could have been identified as a risk, albeit one that actually resulted in very
    minor delays.

2.2 Implementation

25. The Brazil Municipal Lending (APL) Program, and the USD 17.27 million loan to the
    Municipality of Uberaba (with a Guarantee from the Federative Republic of Brazil) in
    support of the Uberaba Água Viva Project, was approved by the World Bank’s Board of
    Directors on March 21, 2007. The Loan and Guarantee Agreements were signed on May 19,
    2008, and became effective on July 30, 2008.

26. There was a fourteen-months initial delay in signing of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements,
    and in declaring effectiveness due to a lengthy congressional approval process and the time
    required for the issuance of the necessary certificates for the sovereign guarantee13. Despite
    these initial delays, however, the Municipality began implementing the Project with
    counterpart funds, for activities supporting the improvement of wastewater collection and
    treatment, as well as other minor ones which were well advanced even before signing. By the
    time of effectiveness, the Project Management Unit (PMU) was formally organized and fully
    staffed, and project implementation evolved significantly, although disbursements were still
    behind schedule. Subsequently, the Project made good implementation progress despite the
    financial constraints it faced. The Project’s ISRs rated DO and IP as either Satisfactory or
    Moderately Satisfactory throughout most of the implementation period, although individual
    project ratings (monitoring and evaluation, procurement and financial management) were
    occasionally rated Moderately Unsatisfactory or Unsatisfactory.

27. During a process of intensive supervision leading up to and immediately following the Loan’s
    December 31, 2012 Closing Date, the Municipality assured the World Bank that the resources
    required (totaling about 20 percent of total project costs) to complete all of the Project’s
    remaining activities after the Closing Date were committed and sources of funding were
    secured. A newly elected mayor demonstrated commitment to finalizing the works under


13
  The guarantee by the Federative Republic of Brazil required not only congressional (Senate) approval, but
also approval of the Brazilian Treasury and issuance of required certificates to that effect. One of the
reasons for the delay in the issuance of the Treasury’s certificate was the expiration of the certificate of “no
outstanding social security debts”, based on information submitted by the municipality. In addition, during
Congress approval, due to political reasons, Senators requested more time to evaluate the proposal.


                                                       8
     implementation both in meetings and in writing. However, when the new municipal
     administration entered office in January 2013, it advised the World Bank that the
     municipality was facing financial difficulties and that the remaining works could not be
     completed before December 31, 2013, as originally planned. In view of these developments,
     the final ISR dated July 29, 2013 downgraded both the DO and IP ratings to Moderately
     Unsatisfactory.

28. Project Funding The cost of the Project, at Appraisal, was estimated at USD28.78 million.
    With the addition of counterpart-financed activities in the amount of USD13.27 million that
    were described as part of the Project, yet not reflected in the Project’s costs14, the total cost
    was expected to amount to USD42.05 million. In addition to this issue related to the
    definition of the actual Project costs, three additional factors caused a further increase in cost
    over the life of the Project (see Annex 3 for more details):
     Construction Costs. Construction costs throughout Brazil increased significantly from
        the time of Appraisal, due to specific circumstances in the civil construction market
        including high demand caused by economic growth; public and private investments in
        infrastructure, housing and other civil construction activities; and the effects of vast
        amounts of federal infrastructure investments that were being implemented during this
        period, especially through the Federal Government’s Growth Acceleration Program
        (PAC) and the building of infrastructure for the World Cup. The National Indices for
        Civil Construction (INCC) increased by some 73 percent, as a national average, between
        2005 and 2013 (see Annex 3).
     Appreciation of the Brazilian Real. The Brazilian Real (BRL) appreciated 12 percent
        against the US Dollar (USD) between Appraisal and Project Closing, increasing in value
        from BRL 2.5 per USD initially to a low of BRL 1.59 and fluctuating to an average of
        BRL 1.99 over the Project lifetime (see Annex 3).
     Actual Cost of Works. The ex-post economic analysis of the Project shows that the real
        increase of costs that were controllable by the Borrower and Bank teams is, in fact,
        estimated at 75 percent.

29. These factors resulted in an increase in the Project costs from the original estimate of USD
    42.05 million to USD 112.00 million. Throughout Project implementation the Municipality
    strived to secure additional funding to bridge this gap, and was able to increase its counterpart
    contribution to USD 62.97 million by tapping Federal Government resources from the PAC
    as well as funds from CODAU. Despite these efforts, the Project’s implementation timeframe
    proved to be too short, and the amount of additional counterpart resources mobilized within
    this period insufficient, to allow the Municipality to implement all of the originally planned
    Project activities by the Closing Date. This situation resulted in a reduction of the Project
    scope under Component One at restructuring, and in a few project activities not completed by
    Project closure. As result, the total Project cost totaled USD 79 million.

30. Closing Date: When it became clear that the Borrower would not be able to complete the
    Project by the December 31, 2012 Closing Date, the World Bank supervision team and the
    Municipality began looking for ways of completing it beyond this date by leveraging
    alternative sources of financing. Although implementation had slowed down in the period pre



14
  Wastewater related works (Conquistinha and Uberaba wastewater conveyance systems and treatment
plants) and the Leopoldinho Retention Pond.


                                                  9
    and post October 2012 elections, the incoming Mayor had stated his commitment to the
    Project. However, it did not prove possible to obtain an extension to the Closing Date, which
    required the concurrence of both the Federal Government and the World Bank. The Borrower
    subsequently committed itself to complete the remaining works by December 31, 2013 using
    CODAU funds (for the conclusion of the sewerage system) and resources secured from the
    Federal Government’s PAC Program (for the macro drainage works), and formally requested
    that the World Bank therefore delay the preparation of this ICR by nine months to allow it to
    better capture the Municipality’s efforts to conclude the Project and achieve the expected
    results. This extension of the ICR due date was approved by the World Bank.

31. Although the remaining civil works initially progressed well, the Municipality subsequently
    decided to deliberately delay the implementation of the sewerage works so they could be
    executed simultaneously with the PAC-financed drainage works in the busy commercial
    center of Uberaba, thus minimizing construction disruptions. In early to mid-2013, it became
    clear that, even with PAC-secured funding, the Municipality did not have the necessary
    counterpart resources required by PAC to allow the completion of all the Project activities by
    December 2013. In January 2014, the Borrower nevertheless restated its commitment to the
    full completion of all Project activities, as it had managed to access more PAC funds and
    secure the necessary CODAU and Municipality resources needed. Therefore, at the time of
    writing of the ICR, the Borrower was expecting to be able to conclude all Project works and
    activities by December 2015.

32. OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement: The Project documents (PAD, Loan Agreement and
    Environmental Assessment Report) indicate that land acquisition would take place to
    implement the works under Component One to be financed with counterpart funds. The
    amount of land and value of transactions was small and the majority of the acquisitions had
    been carried out on a voluntary/amicable basis (through land donation, land swaps, and
    purchases at mutually agreed market prices). During preparation, the documentation of the
    land acquired by the Borrower was considered sufficient to comply with the requirements of
    OP 4.12 and as a result, the policy was not formally triggered. In January 2010, as part of a
    portfolio review exercise, a formal assessment of the land acquired for the Project was carried
    out. As a result, the Involuntary Resettlement safeguard was triggered and the Municipality
    prepared (i) a detailed assessment (a retroactive Involuntary Resettlement Action Plan)
    covering all of the land acquisition processed that had occurred as a result of the Project since
    preparation, and (ii) an Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework to govern the possibility
    of further land acquisition that may have been needed in the course of implementation. Apart
    from the administrative time and effort in preparing and processing the necessary paperwork,
    there was no real impact of this retrofitting process on Project implementation.

33. Mid-Term Review: The Project’s Mid-Term Review (MTR) was carried out from March 22-
    26, 2010, at which time the implementation issues described above had been identified, and
    the MTR consequently discussed a proposal for restructuring the Project. Although none of
    the changes proposed in the Restructuring were delaying implementation, its approval
    entailed a lengthy process. The restructuring proposal was officially sent by the Municipality
    to the Federal Government for approval in November 2010, but the incoming administrations
    at the Federal and State levels, coupled with increased overall demands from State
    Governments for external financing, led to a backlog in the clearance of new lending and
    restructuring requests by the Federal Government’s inter-ministerial Commission on External
    Financing (COFIEX). As a result, the Federal Government only approved the restructuring
    package in June 2011, following which it needed to undergo a process to update costs and
    progress. The package was approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors in July 2012, along

                                                 10
    with other LAC region projects that needed Level 1 restructuring as result of the Portfolio
    Review Exercise.

34. Municipal Elections: Municipal elections were held in October 2012, with a new
    administration taking office in January 2013. Although the administration remained fully
    committed to the Project and its objectives, it took a more cautious approach to municipal
    finances, resulting in the slowing down of some of the works and the partial suspension of
    others. During 2013, the Municipality sought additional funds to finalize all Project activities;
    by January 2014 it had secured the needed financing to do so.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

35. Design: The Project’s Results Framework provided the basis for its monitoring and
    evaluation. The Municipality was meant to have put in place a Management Information
    System intended to monitor the Project’s physical and financial progress, as well as allowing
    the Key Development and Intermediate Outcome Indicators to be input in order to facilitate
    the M&E process. The PMU was to play a critical role in assisting the Municipality and
    CODAU in maintaining the system and ensuring that information would be properly input to
    permit continuous review of implementation and impacts. The original PDO and some of the
    original Intermediate Outcome Indicators were judged ambitious. Although adjusted during
    the MTR, the targets were still ambitious and the mechanisms were not in place during the
    Project lifetime to assure their routine monitoring.

36. Implementation and Utilization: The PMU assisted the Municipality and CODAU in setting
    up the framework and systems for Project monitoring and reporting. However, the Project’s
    ISRs repeatedly mentioned that progress reports lacked consistent information and did not
    report on the monitoring of Project indicators. No significant improvement was achieved
    during Project implementation to these M&E, despite efforts during supervision.

37. The difficulties became more evident upon completion of the Bank financing: more than one
    year after the Project Closing Date the Borrower was unable to deliver its Completion Report,
    even though a consultant was hired to prepare a draft. Information used as input to this ICR
    was consequently collected from a myriad of individual reports and documents on different
    aspects of project activities and components. Nevertheless, data on several indicators were
    still not available at the time of finalizing the ICR.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

38. Safeguard Compliance: The Project was classified as Category A for environmental impacts.
    During preparation, an Environmental Assessment was carried out to identify potential
    impacts, recommend mitigation and compensatory measures of the negative impacts and
    maximize the largely positive environmental impacts that it was expected to have. The
    environmental assessment included an Environmental Management Plan, which was
    incorporated into Project design. In addition to OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), the
    Project also triggered safeguards related to Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Cultural Property (OP
    4.11) and Safety of Dams (OP 4.37), which were addressed, included in the Environmental
    Assessment, and reflected in the project design. Overall, while the negative impacts were
    expected to be temporary ones related to large civil works interventions, the Project’s overall
    environmental impacts were expected to be positive, especially in view of expected outcomes
    that included the collection and treatment of wastewater, flood control, separation of

                                                 11
    wastewater collection from storm water collection, improved efficiency of water supply
    systems, increasing cultural and recreational opportunities, and the management of
    environmentally protected areas.

39. The World Bank implementation support adequately incorporated supervision of compliance
    with safeguard aspects. The Environmental Management Plan was addressed satisfactorily
    during implementation, including the compliance with the Natural Habitats and Cultural
    Property policies (Uberaba is one of the largest and most important paleontology sites in
    Brazil). Even before MTR, monitoring of land acquisition processes was incorporated into
    project supervision. Public consultations were held during the environmental licensing of the
    Project components and during preparation of the social assessment. The Municipality, with
    solid performance and high quality material, carried out communication, information and
    environmental education campaigns throughout implementation. The World Bank team
    considered the environmental education campaigns, which the Municipality developed and
    carried out as good practice. The Municipality followed environmental evaluations and
    licensing processes closely. The Project reviewed the final evaluation report prepared by the
    Dam Safety Panel, which demonstrated that the Leopoldino retention pond was in safe
    operating condition. Two activities to enhance the safety of the surrounding pond area
    recommended by the Panel (the implementation of an alert system and the establishment of
    riparian forest) are still to be implemented, but are expected to be concluded by December
    2014.

40. Fiduciary Compliance Full financial management (FM) compliance was problematic, in part
    due to the requirements that the World Bank had set for the use of an automated FM system.
    Minor shortcomings in financial management existed but did not prevent the timely and
    reliable provision of the information required to manage and monitor the Project.
    Procurement post-reviews were carried out routinely, and during supervision the World Bank
    team consistently reported that procurement actionswere well processed and documented,
    although they took longer than expected.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

41. There are five remaining activities to be carried out that were part of the Project: (i) the
    Conquistinha WWTP is 78 percent concluded – funds have been secured from CODAU and
    from the federal government to complete the works, which CODAU will carry out directly;
    (ii) CODAU has secured additional resources to conclude the sewerage collectors within the
    scope of the ongoing works contract; (iii) funds have been secured from the Municipality and
    the federal government to conclude the macro-drainage activities in Santa Beatriz and Santos
    Dumont avenues within the ongoing works contract; and (iv) the implementation of an alert
    system and the establishment of riparian forests around the retention pond will be carried out
    by the Municipality using transferred resources from savings from the loan account. At the
    time of writing the ICR, the Municipality was planning to complete all of these remaining
    Project activities and works by December 2015.

42. The Municipality continues to carry out capacity building activities and environmental
    licensing and supervision. In March 2012, the Municipality secured approval of a Municipal
    Law to structure the PMU permanently to support Project implementation. The Unit includes
    15 professionals who provide continuity in managerial support and supervision of works in
    order to ensure the satisfactory completion of Project implementation, albeit without Bank
    supervision. In addition, the PMU will manage, supervise and monitor ongoing PAC-
    financed investments. Upon completion of the ongoing works, the Municipality, through its

                                               12
    Environmental Secretariat, the Infrastructure Secretariat and CODAU, will assume full
    responsibility for operation of Project-financed works and other interventions, including their
    funding and maintenance.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

43. Relevance of Objectives: The Project objectives were clearly defined, were consistent with
    the Federal Government and Borrower priorities at the time of Appraisal and were highly
    relevant. They continue to be relevant today. Increases in public and private investments are
    still needed in Brazil to address existing infrastructure bottlenecks, inter alia in water supply,
    sanitation and drainage. The Federal Government established its PAC program in 2007 to
    help states and municipalities address infrastructure deficits. The Municipality was able to
    mobilize around USD 32.5 million from PAC to support Project activities. The federal
    government also prioritized making growth more inclusive and environmentally sustainable,
    inter alia by increasing the country’s resilience to climatic shocks, whose results are
    becoming increasingly evident in the increased recurrence of flooding and droughts that have
    caused, and continue to cause, significant social and economic impacts in Brazil. The World
    Bank’s FY12-15 Brazil Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) is aligned with the strategies of
    the Government of Brazil that took office in 2011. Although the CPS prioritizes assistance to
    the poorer Northeast Region of Brazil, and towards larger broader projects to states and to
    larger municipalities, the Project’s objectives (and those of the Program) are nonetheless fully
    compatible with the development priorities presented in the CPS.

44. Relevance of Design and Implementation: By incorporating well the lessons of earlier
    operations, the Project components were well designed such that they could reachexpected
    outcomes. It was well within the Borrower’s capacity to implement, with the support of the
    pre-identified and loan-financed technical assistance. The Project was impacted, however, by
    the way it presented and accounted for the counterpart funds in the PAD and in the Project
    cost estimates themselves. In addition, as mentioned above, the initial costs were affected by
    factors that could not have been foreseen during preparation. The Project’s original
    implementation schedule was also optimistic, especially since the detailed engineering
    designs were to be financed during implementation and the resultant civil works could only
    be procured and implemented once these designs were finalized.

45. Its relevance during implementation, is confirmed by the constant, and mostly successful,
    efforts by the Borrower to mobilize additional resources to bridge the funding gap and
    complete the Project, reflected the tremendous commitment and priority that the Municipality
    attached to the objectives.

46. The Borrower requested additional financing during the MTR and a Closing Date extension
    in mid-2011 which was not granted. The World Bank agreed to an extension for the delivery
    of the ICR to allow the Borrower additional time to advance with project activities with the
    additional resources it was able to mobilize. The Municipality consequently allocated
    resources from its own budget, and obtained PAC resources though not sufficient to complete
    the Project within the original timeframe.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives



                                                 13
47. The achievement of the Project Development Objective is rated as Moderately Satisfactory
    based on the fact that the Project made great progress towards its stated objective through the
    promotion of integrated urban sanitation, environmental preservation, and expanded parks,
    recreational and cultural opportunities. Nevertheless, issues related to M&E made it difficult
    to undertake a complete evaluation of progress regarding the PDO indicators, both as
    originally defined and as restructured. The main activities carried out and some of the results
    reached are highlighted below (see details in Annex 2).

48. Improvement of Water Quality: Detailed engineering designs for the wastewater
    interceptors were concluded and land was acquired for the construction of the conveyance
    systems and for the Uberaba WWTP. The wastewater conveyance systems for both
    Conquistinha and Uberaba WWTPs have been completed, as have the works for the Uberaba
    WWTP. The Uberaba plant has been operating since 2009 with efficiency levels of greater
    than 85 percent on the abatement of BOD, COD and suspended solids. The WWTP works
    were to be complemented by the construction of 26 kilometers of wastewater interceptors in
    the city center, for which, at the time of the ICR, over 82 percent of the works have been
    concluded.

49. Flood control: The Leopoldino retention pond was constructed and the area surrounding it
    was upgraded into a pleasant urban park setting. The retention pond is designed to mitigate
    the impact of downstream flooding by 11 percent. The Project also financed engineering
    designs for several activities, including macro drainage works in the city center, and micro
    drainage works in three key micro basins (works not originally intended to be financed by the
    Project). The micro drainage works in three critical flood prone areas have been completed
    (Exposição, Olinda and Cartafina) as well as the macro and micro drainage works in the city
    center (Leopoldino de Oliveira, Pedro Salomão and Guilherme Ferreira avenues).

50. Adequate Water Supply: Measures to ensure adequate levels of water supply focused on
    efforts by CODAU to reduce water losses. A consultant was contracted to support CODAU
    develop its water loss control plan, with proposed activities prioritized into short- medium-
    and long-term actions. CODAU has successfully implemented several operational
    improvements as part of these water loss reduction efforts, including: (i) the replacement of
    about 102,000 micrometers (representing 100 percent of their micrometer base); (ii) the
    substitution of three critical water mains in the city center that needed urgent replacement due
    to their excessive maintenance needs; and (iii) updated the technical water system cadaster.
    The actions implemented have reduced water losses from an estimated 38 percent in 2006
    down to 32.8 percent in 2012. This equates to some 1.2 million m3 of water per year, or
    enough to supply around 19 thousand inhabitants annually. CODAU reported that despite
    population increases in the Municipality, it has not suffered water shortages in 2013 due in
    part to CODAU’s efforts to reduce losses and to reduce demand for water, as identified and
    supported by the Project.

51. Understanding of Environmental Problems: Addressing this sub-objective, the Project
    financed the establishment of a 25-ha linear park along the Uberaba River, in addition to a
    12-ha urban park, through re-forestation, landscape improvements, paths and trails, and play
    areas. It also financed the installation of a multi-use center for environmental education (the
    Centro de Educação Ambiental, CEA), with educational playrooms for children, a library,
    laboratories for water and soil monitoring, a fully equipped geo-processing center, and a
    multi-use conference center aimed at housing seminars, courses, and symposiums on
    environmental themes in the urban Park. From 2009 through 2013, the urban Park received


                                                14
     an average of 72,000 visitors, of which most part was children participating in environmental
     playgroups in CEA, numbers which greatly exceeded the Project’s original expectations.

52. A Priority Action Plan was prepared that includes a system for monitoring the use of water
    resources and environmental mapping, and key urgent recovery activities were identified to
    support the conservation of the Uberaba River APA. Under the Action Plan, the following
    activities have been completed: (i) an image mapping exercise that permits the geo-
    processing of the APA; (ii) a prioritization of the recovery actions in the APA; and (iii)
    establishment of a fully equipped geo-processing center in CEA.

53. CODAU has also assumed responsibility for the monitoring of the quality and quantity of
    water resources in the Municipality. CODAU had acquired the necessary equipment to do so,
    including boats with Doppler systems, and assigned and trained staff to undertake weekly
    monitoring exercises. The resultant data will be made widely available through CODAU’s
    internet site.

54. A business plan to support the Llewellyn Ivor Price Paleontology Research Center was
    prepared, but no other specific activities were supported by the Project as the administrative
    responsibility of the Center’s was transferred to the University during Project implementation,
    and the University made the necessary arrangements to improve the Center’s sustainability
    with its own resources.

55. Planning and Management: After equipping and staffing an Environmental Secretariat in
    June 2012, the Municipality signed an agreement with the state environmental authority
    granting the Municipality the authority to issue environmental licenses up to Class IV15; for
    licenses above this class, the Municipal Environmental Secretariat conducts the background
    analysis together with state authorities.

56. One of the Project’s most successful results was its comprehensive program of environmental
    education and social outreach. CODAU using CEA as one of its delivery mechanisms, has
    developed environmental training events and social communication activities for the
    population at large, and especially for children aged eight to eleven. CODAU also carried out
    a very effective social outreach campaign before and during the implementation of its major
    civil works under the Project in order to inform citizens, provide mechanisms for complaints,
    and help mitigate the difficulties that construction in the city center inevitably encountered.

3.3 Efficiency




15
  Decree 44,309/2006, Deliberação Normativa Copam 74/04 defines the classification of the enterprises
following 6 categories: Classes I-IV range from small-medium-large size enterprises with small-medium
polluting potential; and, Classes V and VI are related to large size enterprises with medium to large
polluting potential.


                                                  15
57. A comprehensive economic analysis was carried out for the works implemented under the
    project. The evaluation was conducted for the same components analyzed during Appraisal,
    namely: (i) sanitation (wastewater collection and treatment); (ii) drainage; (iii) water supply;
    and (iv) the linear park. The same approach used during Appraisal – a cost benefit analysis –
    was also used for this ICR evaluation.

58. The ex-post economic analysis of the Project transformed all Project costs to 2005 prices in
    order to eliminate the exchange rate fluctuation and civil works inflation, and shows that,
    project costs increased by 88 percent, being 21 percent related to the real increase of costs –
    the remaining is explained by an exchange rate fluctuation of 12 percent and an average
    inflation rate of 39 percent during the implementation of the Project. However, if the two
    activities dropped at restructuring were included as actual Project costs to compare with
    Project appraisal costs, the project costs increase would reach 166 percent, of which 75
    percent is related to the real increase of costs, and remaining 52 percent explained by
    exchange rate and inflation.

59. During Appraisal the fluctuations resulting from the subsequent macroeconomic volatility
    were not foreseen, were beyond the control of the Municipality of Uberaba and the Bank, and
    would have been difficult to predict. The real increase of costs that were controllable is, in
    fact, estimated at 75 percent and is attributed to (i) the adjustments in the cost estimates
    emerging from the detailed engineering designs; (ii) the final costs emerging from the works
    contracts themselves of the major Project interventions, resulting from, among other things,
    the Borrower’s efforts to coordinate interventions in the city center to minimize disruptions;
    and (iii) scaling up of original activities to include the implementation of micro drainage in
    key basins and creation of 12 ha of an urban park including the construction of a multi-use
    center for environmental education.

60. The Project’s water supply, the wastewater and the drainage components reached a great
    number of beneficiaries and in some cases, have actually exceeded the Appraisal beneficiary
    targets (see following table).

            Table 1 – Beneficiaries expected at appraisal versus actual by components

  Components                   Beneficiaries foreseen at        Actual Beneficiaries (percentage of
                               Appraisal                        Appraisal target)
   
  Drainage                     3,845 properties                 3,021 properties (nearly 79%)
  Water Supply                 Total population of Uberaba:     Total population of Uberaba:
                               275,000                          315,000 (114.5%)
                               Water losses: 38%                Water losses: 32.8%
  Wastewater System            193,997 inhabitants in Uberaba   217,847 inhabitants in Uberaba
                               basin                            basin (112%)
                                                                The full intervention was not
                               81,121 in Conquistinha basin     concluded in Conquistinha basin
                                                                (0%)
  Linear Park (number of       60,000                           72,000 (120%)
  yearly average visitors)


61. Project Outcome Impact: The results of the economic analysis show that those works already
    implemented have generated benefits twice as large as their costs. The Project’s net benefits
    were as much as R$ 73 million, and its economic rate of return was 22.5 percent. The benefits

                                                 16
    were lower than expected at appraisal (R$ 270 million) for the following main reasons: (i)
    some of the civil works were not implemented and led to project delays; and (ii) the higher
    investment costs. However, despite these factors, the Project’s actual economic return was
    higher than the 18 percent estimated at Appraisal. When compared to the results of other
    similar municipal projects, such as Betim (which had a final EIRR of 18 percent for its
    infrastructure investments, and 15 percent of the other components), the results of the
    Uberaba project were greater.

62. Drainage and sewerage works were still being implemented at the time the ICR preparation,
    and were scheduled to be completed by December 2015. When these are concluded, it is
    estimated that the benefits will increase by R$ 28 million for the sewerage activities and by
    R$ 50 million for the drainage activities, with internal rates of return of 16 percent and 36
    percent, respectively. With these additional benefits, it is estimated that the Project will
    generate R$ 102 million of overall benefits and a return of 25 percent.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

63. The Overall Outcome Rating is Moderately Satisfactory. The Project is still very relevant to
    the development priorities of Brazil and of the Municipality. The Borrower has demonstrated
    great commitment throughout Project implementation. The majority of Project activities were
    completed and the greater part of its objectives was achieved by the time the Bank loan
    formally closed.

64. Even with the difficulties pointed out above regarding monitoring the Project results
    indicators, the evaluation of the indicators as presented in this ICR indicates that the Project
    has successfully achieved most of the PDO and Intermediate targets at the time of ICR
    preparation.

65. The results of the economic analysis confirm the positive outcomes by showing that the
    implemented works have generated benefits twice as large as their costs. The Project’s net
    benefits were as much as R$ 73 million, and its economic rate of return was 22.5 percent
    (higher than originally estimated).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

66. The Project’s objectives and interventions were not targeted at a specific group of residents,
    but are designed to impact the lives of all 315,000 residents of Uberaba alike.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

67. The Project did not have a specific institutional capacity building objective, although some of
    its activities did have an impact on the Municipality’s long-term institutional development.
    Specifically, the capacity of the Environmental Secretariats to evaluate and issue
    environmental licenses has been strengthened, and its mandate for doing this has been legally
    approved in an agreement between the State of Minas Gerais and the Municipality.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


                                                17
68. On March 23, 2012, the Municipality issued a decree formalizing the role of the PMU as well
    as the staffing. The decree also maintained the existing staff in their positions in the event of
    a change in administration following municipal elections. The PMU remains in place to
    oversee the implementation of the remaining Project and PAC activities. It is possible that the
    PMU will also now be used for reaching out for new sources of financing to support the
    Municipality’s investment needs.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

69. Three beneficiary surveys were carried out by the PMU in November and December 2013,
    and in January 2014. The surveys documented very positive impressions of the beneficiaries
    with regard to the urban park surrounding the Leopoldino retention pond, the drainage works
    in the city center, and CODAU’s service delivery. More details of the results of these surveys
    are presented in Annex 5. A workshop was held in June 2013 for representatives of the
    Project’s main implementing units 16 and the World Bank team members with the aim of
    learning lessons from the Project design, management and implementation. A translated
    summary of the conclusions of this workshop is included in Annex 6.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

70. The Risk to Development Outcome is considered Moderate. The Municipality continues to
    assign high priority to the Project, which is fully aligned with those of the Federal
    Government. The Project is well designed technically, and those components that have not
    been concluded are at an advanced stage of implementation, with needed resources secured
    and contracts underway. Many of its components and activities have been completed
    successfully, and are in operation by CODAU or related Secretaries. The Municipality
    continues to carry out or is seeking more resources to complement Project activities in line
    with the Project’s objectives e.g. the implementation of the water transfer from the Claro
    River and the automation system; installation of a new water treatment plant and
    rehabilitation of the two old ones, hiring of a specialized consulting firm to assist CODAU to
    implement the water loss reduction plan, among others. In addition, the PMU has been
    maintained and will assist the Municipality in the implementation of above listed activities,
    among others.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

71. Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The World
    Bank’s support to Program and Project preparation was timely, responsive and well-focused
    on an important priority of the Municipality of Uberaba. The process was participatory, and



16
  It included participants from the PMU, the Municipal Government and CODAU, in addition to the World
Bank.


                                                 18
      the institutional and other implementation arrangements well within the Borrower’s capacity
      to handle... In addition, technical and environmental due diligence analyses carried out
      avoided the need for the Municipality to invest in some very major and costly infrastructure
      investments (e.g. analyses provided evidence that the proposed new dam was not necessary).
      There were also some shortcomings in the preparation process, however, such as the
      underestimation of project costs (some of it was beyond the control of the Municipality of
      Uberaba and the World Bank). As the engineering designs were to be financed with the Loan
      funds, the cost estimates could have included higher contingency funding. The Project
      Results Framework was ambitious, especially insofar as expecting that a project to be
      implemented through multiple activities/works needed to produce results that could yield the
      expected outcomes over a relatively short implementation period. Furthermore, CODAU did
      not have in place at Appraisal, the necessary mechanisms and instruments required to monitor
      Project outcomes. Finally, preparation failed to take into account the fact that the Project
      would acquire land therefore OP 4.12 related instruments should have been prepared –
      however, in the end, this was not a significant issue affecting implementation.

(b)   Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

72. The Quality of Supervision is rated Satisfactory. The World Bank team comprised well-
    qualified technical, social, environmental and fiduciary teams who performed intensive,
    hands-on and comprehensive supervision. When needed, experts in specific themes (such as
    water loss and automation) were hired to give the client specialized technical assistance.
    Reporting in the ISRs was clear; results focused, and highlighted the main issues affecting the
    Project and progress towards their resolution. The Project restructuring correctly addressed
    issues that had surfaced with respect to the Project’s preparation (i.e., application of the
    Involuntary Resettlement safeguard).

(c)   Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73. The Overall Bank Performance rating is Moderately Satisfactory, based on the ratings for
    Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision; and on the overall outcome rating.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

74. The Borrower’s performance is rated Satisfactory. The Borrower is taken to mean the
    Municipality of Uberaba, and its broader government units, including CODAU. Despite
    delays in signing, the Borrower demonstrated strong ownership of the Project, and gave its
    commitment to its early implementation by starting counterpart funds activities first and to its
    completion following the formal closing of the World Bank loan. It was fully committed to
    Project objectives, especially to the safeguard aspects. Throughout Project implementation,
    the Municipality involved stakeholders and beneficiaries through consultations and
    environmental education programs, which were judged as good practice by the Bank. The
    Municipality put in place the staff required to coordinate implementation in a unit with
    Secretariat level status. Despite continued funding constraints, the Municipality continuously
    sought to arrange alternative sources of funding, and did so successfully.



                                                19
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75. The Implementing Agency Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Implementing
    Agency is taken to mean the Project Management Unit. It was also fully committed to the
    Project’s objectives, created specifically for the purpose of coordinating activities and works.
    The Implementing Agency, with support from an external management firm and later from a
    works supervision firm, was able to coordinate the Project in a timely manner, despite the
    significant financial constraints the Project faced and the considerable challenges these posed
    to Project implementation. It absorbed full responsibility for coordination in December 2011,
    when the funding for the external management firm came to an end. Implementation had
    slowed down during (a longer than expected) transition period, however in view of the
    capacity that had been created in the PMU it picked up – but never with the same timely
    response as initially. The main shortcomings the PMU faced were in the areas of monitoring,
    reporting and financial management. The PMU will remain in place to complete the
    outstanding Project activities and the complementary activities under way.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

76. Overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory, based on the ratings for
    Government Performance and for Implementing Agency Performance.

6. Lessons Learned

77. The Project offers several lessons that are relevant to project design, generally, and to
    integrated water sector projects in particular. They are as follows:

Project Design

78. In order to provide a timely response to Borrowers’ needs, projects contemplating large civil
    works could be appraised on the basis of conceptual/preliminary engineering designs, but the
    project’s costing, disbursement and implementation schedules need to clearly reflect this.
    There is always a tradeoff between preparing a project quickly and having the time to
    undertake preliminary or detailed engineering designs, which can add another 12-24 months
    to a preparation schedule. Where the engineering designs are not finalized during preparation,
    then the large disbursement lag that will result from having them undertaken during project
    implementation and the related impacts on the project’s overall implementation timeline and
    risks on costs estimates, need to be fully taken into account in project design.

79. Project design needs to ensure the coordination of civil works interventions so as to minimize
    their impact on the community. Project implementation designs and works management
    schedules should take into consideration the location and sources of financing of works under
    separate components. The Project contemplated both macro-drainage works and the
    installation of wastewater interceptors in the same location in the city center. As these were
    packaged as two separate works contracts, with two different sources of financing,
    procurement processes and construction contracts needed to be well coordinated to minimize
    disruption in the same location twice, but also resulted in reduction of cost of works. Civil
    works planning which combines and coordinates such interventions not only reduces
    disruption and inconvenience, but can also help reduce the overall cost of the works.

                                                20
80. The use of an external management support firm can be positive in transferring knowledge to
    the local team, but the knowledge transfer can take time and a transition period is needed to
    ensure the local team is fully operational. A management firm can help professionalize
    project management and improve the efficiency of project execution, generally, and works
    implementation more specifically, especially during the critical start-up months of a project.
    However, the transfer of knowledge from the management firm to the local team (which was
    an explicit element of the firm’s contract in this case) takes time and a transition period is
    needed to avoid gaps until the local team is fully up to speed on all aspects of project
    management.

81. Results frameworks need to be designed (i) candidly to present what a project can actually
    achieve during its timeframe; and (ii) taking into account Borrowers’ capacity for measuring
    results and the availability of reliable baseline data. In of this Project, the targets for the
    outcome indicators were too ambitious to be achieved within the Project’s implementation
    period, especially considering that multiple works needed to be first completed for many of
    the targets to be monitored and finally met. Furthermore, the design of indicators and the
    targets established did not take into account that other, exogenous, factors could have an
    impact on their achievement (i.e., pollution of the river by a third party unrelated to the
    Project). In addition, the World Bank implementation support should focus from the start on
    operationalizing Project monitoring with the client – to internalize monitoring and reporting
    among Project priorities, and have in place the staff, equipment and processes required for
    monitoring. The World Bank team may also consider including an M&E specialist in the
    team to support the Borrower throughout project implementation.

82. The design and implementation of a strong and effective communication plan is a key
    instrument to address citizen demands regarding impacts from large infrastructure
    investments. With multiple large works expected to disrupt activities in the city center,
    CODAU had expected numerous complaints, and proactively adopted a strong program to
    communicate works plans with the citizens. The pamphlets distributed announcing these
    plans, the complaint line that was set up, and the efforts to reach out to the population to hear
    their concerns through community meetings, all went a long way to building the acceptance
    of the citizens for the inconvenience they would be facing.

Integrated water sector projects

83. Complex urban development projects can be managed effectively by medium-sized
    municipalities with a reasonable institutional and operational capacity 17: (i) municipalities
    are the primary actors in urban development and in the provision of local urban services such
    as wastewater management, water supply, drainage and urban parks – such interventions
    require strategic planning and considerable resources and should be developed in strict
    collaboration with the key municipal stakeholders to ensure their relevance and full
    ownership across the administration; (ii) integrated urban development projects such as these
    enhance local governments’ capacity to manage complex interventions as well as strategic
    thinking on how cities must be shaped, institutionally and physically; and (iii) complex urban
    development projects can be managed effectively by medium-sized municipalities; however,
    external support (by the Bank and consultants) is critical, especially in key areas such as


17
     As in similar projects such as Betim Municipal Project (P082328, Ln 7246-BR).


                                                     21
    project design, monitoring, institutional strengthening, complex engineering tasks, and
    fiduciary issues.

84. An integrated urban water management approach is effective, creates synergies among
    financing and implementation institutions, and allows local stakeholders to understand
    project objectives and results. The Project followed an approach to integrated urban water
    management (IUWM), in which water supply, wastewater management, drainage and related
    aspects were all effectively incorporated in the Project’s analyses, planning and interventions.
    In the case of Uberaba, the Project’s efforts to ensure adequate levels of water quality by
    collecting and treating wastewater, to reduce flooding in the city center, and to combat
    potable water losses, were complemented with activities to educate the population on the
    benefits of water and environmental conservation while providing the inhabitants with much-
    needed green spaces and leisure areas around associated with the city’s water bodies. Each of
    these activities was complementary and provided a synergistic approach which resulted in
    easier understanding of the rationale for the Project objectives and for local stakeholder
    commitment.

World Bank assistance

85. The relevance of the World Bank’s assistance for achieving impact and sustainability is high
    even when it is not the main source of funding. The Project involved a multitude of
    complementary civil works, but the amount of financing provided by the World Bank loan
    was relatively small. Nevertheless, the Bank financed critical components, such as the
    detailed engineering designs, under each of the components. The Bank assistance therefore
    assumed an important, catalytic role in assisting the Municipality in bringing the Project’s
    activities to a new strategic level, in strengthening the institutions in charge of the various
    aspects of municipal development, and in facilitating the leverage of funds to allow for the
    full completion of the Project. From the Municipality’s perspective, this is an attractive
    arrangement, through which the Bank provides strong technical assistance and advice as well
    as a ‘stamp of approval’ which facilitated the leveraging of further funding.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

86. The Borrower reviewed a draft copy of the ICR and provided comments agreeing on the
    relevance of the Project and main aspects affecting its implementation. The Borrower agrees
    with the ratings of the ICR, states the main results reached and activities implemented
    (including complementary activities that contribute to the Project objectives). In addition, the
    Borrower reaffirmed its commitment to completion of the Project and thanked the Bank for
    the support provided. The Borrower highlights, however, that if an extension of closing date
    had been granted, results could have been even greater. No updates or corrections were
    requested (see details in Annex 7).

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable.


                                                22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)   Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                      Estimated at
                                                                     restructuring       Actual/Latest
                                            Appraisal Estimate      (USD millions) –                         Percentage of
              Components                                                                 Estimate (USD
                                             (USD millions)18         July, 201219                            Appraisal
                                                                                            millions)



      1.   Environmental Sanitation
1A. Waste Water Collection and
                                                       8.70                     39.77             35.98          413.56
Treatment
1B. Urban Macro Drainage                              11.78                     27.55             33.84          287.27
1C. Water Supply                                       4.35                      4.94               4.71         108.27
      2. Environmental and Cultural
         Recovery and Preservation
2A. Environmental Protection Area
                                                       0.32                      0.29               0.34         106.25
(APA)
2B. Linear Park                                        0.40                      1.98               1.27         317.50
2C. Fossil Vivo                                        0.05                      0.03               0.03         60.00
      3.   Management and Planning
3A. Sanitation and Environmental
                                                       0.16                      0.09               0.08         50.00
Protection
3B. Environmental Education and
                                                       0.15                      0.20               0.18         120.00
Outreach
3C. Institutional Development                          0.21                      0.17               0.17         80.95
3D. Project Management                                 2.43                      2.28               2.36         97.12
                      Total Baseline Cost             28.52                     77.30             78.96          276.85
Physical Contingencies                                                           0.00
                                                       0.00                                         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                                              0.00
                                                       0.19                                         0.00            0.00
                        Total Project Costs           28.61                     77.30              78.96          275.99
Front-end fee IBRD                                     0.17                      0.04               0.04           23.53
              Total Financing Required                28.78                     77.34              79.00          274.50
* Activities still to be concluded amount to BRL 33.53 million (USD 13.85 million or 17.5 percent of the total Project
cost).




(b)   Financing


18
   Complementary activities originally proposed were not included in the project’s PAD costs, which
included the implementation of wastewater works (Conquistinha and Uberaba wastewater conveyance
systems and Treatment Plants) and the Leopoldino Retention Pool – for a total estimated original cost of
USD13.27 million as counterpart financed activities. This would increase the total cost at appraisal to USD
42.05 million.
19
   Complementary activities originally proposed were included with their actual cost of USD29.73 million.


                                                         23
                                                                      Estimated at
                                                        Appraisal                   Actual/Latest
                                                                      restructuring
                                            Type of     Estimate                      Estimate    Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                                (USD
                                          Cofinancing    (USD                          (USD        Appraisal
                                                                       millions) –
                                                        millions)                     millions)
                                                                        July, 2012
 Borrower
  Municipality of Uberaba, CODAU and                             20
                                               -         11.51           60.0721       62.97         547.09
                                    PAC
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                               -             17.27       17.27         16.03          92.82
and Development




20
   Complementary activities originally proposed were not included in the project’s PAD costs, which
included the implementation of wastewater works (Conquistinha and Uberaba wastewater conveyance
systems and Treatment Plants) and the Leopoldino Retention Pool – for a total estimated original cost of
USD13.27 million as counterpart financed activities.
21
   Complementary activities originally proposed were included with their actual cost of USD 29.73 million.


                                                        24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component, and Results Framework

     (a) Summary table of Component’s activities and Status in January/2014

Component/Sub-component                 PAD-Financing Plan        Restructuring (PP) Financing
                                                                              Plan                          Status in
                                       Bank         Borrower         Bank           Borrower              January/2014
Component One: Environmental Sanitation
A. Waste Water Collection and Treatment
Engineering designs for all       √                                Engineering                             Completed
subcomponent’s activities                                           designs of
                                                                    wastewater
                                                                  interceptors in
                                                                  the city center.
                                                                   (Completed)
Wastewater conveyance system for                                                      Completed
Uberaba wastewater treatment plant
(WWTP) and wastewater                                                                                      Completed
conveyance system for Conquistinha
WWTP, works                                     √
Uberaba WWTP, works                             √                                     Completed             Operating
Conquistinha WWTP, works                                                             20     percent   Ongoing-is delayed in
                                                                                     completed;         view of contracted
                                                √                                    expected            firm’s financial
                                                                                     6/2013           difficulties; expected
                                                                                                          12/2014 (78%
                                                                                                            concluded)
Construction of 26 km of                        √                 74 percent completed; expected      Ongoing-expected to
wastewater interceptors in the city                                           6/2013                       be concluded
center, works                                                                                          12/2015, along with
                                                                                                        macro drainage to
                                                                                                       avoid disturbing the
                                                                                                         city center (82%
                                                                                                            concluded)
Expropriation of land needed for the                                                  Completed             Completed
construction of conveyance systems                     Land
and Uberaba wastewater treatment                    acquisition
plant.
B. Drainage
Engineering designs for all
subcomponent’s activities                                           Engineering                            Completed
                                        √                         designs for the
                                                                       macro
                                                                      drainage
                                                                   system in the
                                                                     city center
                                                                   (Completed)
Leopoldino retention pool and its                       √                             Completed             Operating
urbanization, works
Macro drainage system in city center                                                   Ongoing;       One contract has been
                                                                                       expected        concluded. Another
                                                √                                       6/2013.       is ongoing-affected by
                                                                                     Financed with     financial constraints;
                                                                                      counterpart         expected to be
                                                                                        (PAC)              concluded by
                                                                                                             12/2015.
Micro drainage works in six key                                                      20 percent (of     Works for three key
micro basins                                                                             three)        neighborhoods have
                                                √                                     completed;       been concluded. The
                                                                                       expected        works on three others
                                                                                        6/2012.        have been cancelled.
                                                                                     Financed with
                                                                                      counterpart
                                                                                        (PAC)
Engineering designs for micro           √                         Being                                    Completed.
drainage in key critical areas                                    prepared;

                                                            25
                                                             expected
                                                             6/2012
System of flood alert and a safety           √               Will be                           Still to be procured
ring for the Leopoldino retention                            purchased                         using counterpart
pool                                                         once the                          financing. Expected
                                                             current system                    until 12/2014.
                                                             proposal is
                                                             evaluated by
                                                             dam safety
                                                             experts;
                                                             expected
                                                             purchase and
                                                             installation
                                                             6/2012
C. Water Supply
Engineering designs for                  √                     Completed                             Completed
subcomponent’s activities
Update of the technical water system         √                                   Completed           Completed
cadaster
Rehabilitation of three critical water       √                          Completed                    Completed
pipelines
Rehabilitation of two water                  √                Dropped from Project although          Completed
treatment plants                                               works initiated and expected
                                                                          6/2014
Replacement of micrometers                   √                                  Replacement    Replacement of 100%
                                                                                  of 74% of      of 102 thousand
                                                                                    91,000         micrometers
                                                                                 micrometers        completed.
                                                                                   ongoing
Regularization of the flow of the            √                                                 Works are expected to
Uberaba River through making                                             Dropped                 start in April 2014
permanent the transfer of water from                                                                with secured
the Claro River                                                                                 resources from PAC.
Automation of the water system               √                 Dropped, but bidding process      Activities are being
                                                                         ongoing                revised based on TA
                                                                                                 given by the Bank.
TA to CODAU to develop its water         √                      Dropped, water loss control     Consultant was hired
loss control program                                           program still being developed   to support CODAU to
                                                                                               develop its water loss
                                                                                                 control program—
                                                                                               product was delivered
Component Two: Environmental and Cultural Preservation and Recovery
A. Environmental Recovery (APA)
Monitoring of water resources
(quantity and quality) and signing
agreements with local universities to
                                             √                           Ongoing                     Completed
assist CODAU with its operation
(and equipment acquired)
Action plan agreed and implemented
to support the recovery and                                    Expected by
conservation of 1,500 ha in the
                                             √                   6/2012                             Action plan
Uberaba Environmental Protection                                                                completed. Recovery
Area22                                                                                         actions not started yet.
B. Parque da Cidade (re-named Parque das Lajes)
Urbanization of the Lajes Stream         √                              Completed              Completed, creating a
                                                                                                leisure park used by



22
  An Action Plan was agreed and is ongoing to support the conservation of the Uberaba Environmental
Protection Area (APA) which includes: (i) acquisition of an image of the area-concluded; (ii) treatment of
the image by a specialist-concluded; (iii) preparation of an emergency action plan based on the results of (i)
and (ii)-concluded; and (iv) preparation of the TOR for a full management plan for the area-concluded.
This TOR will be used by CODAU to carry out such activities using own resources; and (v)
implementation of a geo-processing center at the Urban Park-under way.


                                                     26
                                                                                     people living in the
                                                                                        neighborhood
Implementation of the Lajes                  √                                      Completed, including
(Barriguda) Urban Park                                                                an Environmental
                                                                                      Education Center
Implementation of a geo-processing
center at the Lajes (Barriguda)                                                          Under way
Urban Park
                                             √
C. Fossil Vivo
Preparation of Business Plan for the     √                           Completed           Completed
Live Fossil Project
Component Three: Planning and Management
A. Sanitation and Environmental Preservation
Environmental Secretariat                        √                    Capacity to       Capacity to start
established                                                               start     evaluating and issuing
                                                                      evaluating         environmental
                                                                      and issuing   licenses strengthened;
                                                                    environmental        started issuing
                                                                        licenses     licenses in June 2011
                                                                     strengthened
B. Environmental Education and Social Communication
Programs of environmental        √                                   Completed           Completed
education developed
Environmental training events and                                     Ongoing,         Ongoing, being
social communication activities                                     being carried       carried out
carried out to the population at large
                                         √                               out
C. Institutional Strengthening
Capacity building activities carried                                Implemented          Implemented;
out for the Secretariats of                                                           Strategic Plan for
Environment, Tourism, Planning
                                         √                                            CODAU prepared;
and Infrastructure                                                                   PMU and municipal
                                                                                    staff received training
D. Project Management
Specialized management consultant                                                        Implemented;
firm hired to support and transfer                        Ongoing                       contract expired
capacity to PMU
                                         √                                                   during
                                                                                    implementation, PMU
                                                                                     staffed by Municipal
                                                                                              Law




                                                     27
    (b) Detailed description of Component’s outputs

Improvement of Water Quality

1. Several activities under the Project were expected to work together to improve the water
   quality in Uberaba:

2. Wastewater Collection and Treatment. Two independent sewage treatment systems,
   including two sewage treatment plants (Uberaba expected to attend 75 percent of the
   population and Conquistinha expected to attend 15 percent of the population) were expected
   to be a key factor in improving the water quality and class rating on the Uberaba River and
   Conquistinha Stream. Detailed engineering designs for the wastewater interceptors were
   concluded, and land was acquired (financed by the Municipality) for the construction of the
   conveyance systems and for the Uberaba WWTP. The wastewater conveyance systems for
   both plants have been completed, as have the works for the Uberaba WWTP (completed with
   counterpart resources). The Uberaba plant has been operating since 2009 with efficiency
   levels of greater than 85 percent on the abatement of BOD, COD and suspended solids. The
   volume (mass) of BOD pollution removed by the WWTP reached 160,200 (tons/year) in
   2013; with 92 percent of removal (greater than the originally designed target of 90 percent).
   Works for the Conquistinha wastewater treatment plant are still ongoing with financing
   obtained through the Federal Government, but delayed in part due to financial difficulties by
   the contractor (that has now been resolved). At present, all equipment has been acquired and
   works are about 78 percent completed. The plant is expected to be concluded in December
   2014. When the WWTP starts operating, an estimated 60 percent of wastewater collected in
   Uberaba will be treated.

3. The above works were to be complemented by the construction of 26 kilometers of
   wastewater interceptors in the city center. The interceptors were financed by the loan, but
   works were put on hold to coordinate their execution with the macro drainage works (see
   below) that would be carried out in the same locations in the city center. At the time of the
   ICR over 82 percent of the works have been concluded. When the works for the interceptors
   are concluded (expected to December 2015), an estimated 90 percent of wastewater collected
   in Uberaba will be treated.

Flood control

4. Drainage. The Project aimed to improve Uberaba’s urban drainage system through several
   activities. The Leopoldino retention pond was constructed and the area surrounding it was
   upgraded into a pleasant urban park setting (financed by the Municipality before the Project
   began implementation). The retention pond is designed to mitigate the impact of downstream
   flooding by 11 percent. A system of flood alert for the pool as well as a safety ring is being
   procured. The Project also financed engineering designs for several activities, including
   macro drainage works in the city center, and micro drainage works in three micro basins
   (works not originally intended to be financed by the Project). The micro drainage works in
   key three critical flood prone areas have been completed (Exposição, Olinda and Cartafina)
   as well as the macro and micro drainage works in the city center (Leopoldino de Oliveira,
   Pedro Salomão and Guilherme Ferreira avenues). There are macro drainage works currently
   expected to be restarted in two locations (Santos Dumont and Santa Beatriz avenues) with
   resources mobilized from the Federal Government. In financing these works, the
   Municipality (and later the Public’s Hearing Office reinforced) made the effort to proceed
   only if the macro drainage works were executed together with the installation of wastewater

                                               28
    interceptors, as this not only produced a reduction in the cost of works, but also reduced the
    inconvenience to the affected population. Monitoring reports of high rain events in the city
    center that occurred in December-2013 and January-2014 have shown that those avenues
    which have received macro drainage interventions in the city center have not suffered any
    flood impacts.

Adequate Water Supply

5. The provision of adequate levels of water supply contemplated a program to reduce water
   losses, including an update of the technical water system cadaster and rehabilitation of three
   critical water pipelines. Measures to ensure adequate levels of water supply focused on
   efforts by CODAU to reduce water losses that were estimated at 38 percent at appraisal. A
   consultant was contracted to support CODAU develop its water loss control plan, with
   proposed activities prioritized into short, medium and long-term actions. CODAU has
   successfully implemented several operational improvements as part of these water loss
   reduction efforts, including: (i) the replacement of about 102,000 micrometers (representing
   100 percent of their micrometer base); (ii) the substitution of three critical water mains in the
   city center that needed urgent replacement due to their excessive maintenance needs; and,
   (iii) updated the technical water system cadaster. The actions implemented have reduced
   water losses to 32.8 percent in 2012. This equates to some 1.2 million m3 of water per year,
   or enough to supply around 19 thousand inhabitants annually. CODAU has expressed its
   intention to continue implementing the water loss control plan, by addressing the medium-
   and longer-term issues identified in the plan, including finalizing the cadaster, tackling
   internal management and human resource issues and hiring a specialized firm to provide
   technical assistance. CODAU also intends to continue replacing micrometers that have a
   five-year useful life on a rolling basis. CODAU reported that despite population increases in
   the Municipality, it has not suffered water shortages in 2013 due in part to CODAU’s efforts
   to reduce losses and to reduce demand for water, as identified and supported by the Project.

Understanding of Environmental Problems

6. The objective of these activities was to improve the quality of life in the Municipality and
   provide sustainability to the investments supported by the Project. Addressing this sub-
   objective, the Project financed the establishment of a 25-ha linear park along the Uberaba
   River, in addition to a 12-ha urban park, through re-forestation, landscape improvements,
   paths and trails, and play areas. It also financed the installation of a multi-use center for
   environmental education (the Centro de Educação Ambiental, CEA), with educational
   playrooms for children, a library, laboratories for water and soil monitoring, a fully equipped
   geo-processing center and a multi-use conference center aimed at housing seminars, courses,
   and symposiums on environmental themes in the urban Park. CODAU has signed
   agreements with the State Secretariats of Health and Education, and with several universities
   for conducting activities in and providing outreach from the CEA. From 2009 through 2013,
   the urban Park received an average of 72,000 visitors, of which most part was children
   participating in environmental playgroups in CEA, numbers which greatly exceeded the
   Project’s original expectations.

7. The Project made progress towards developing the terms of reference to prepare a full
   Management Plan for the APA Uberaba, however it fell short of original targets for actually
   preparing the Management Plan and recovering 1,500 hectares within the APA. A Priority
   Action Plan was prepared that includes a system for monitoring the use of water resources
   and environmental mapping, and key urgent recovery activities were identified to support the

                                                29
     conservation of the Uberaba River APA. Under the Action Plan, the following activities have
     been completed: (i) an image mapping exercise that permits the geo-processing of the APA;
     (ii) a prioritization of the recovery actions in the APA; and (iii) establishment of a fully
     equipped geo-processing center in CEA. The APA Action Plan was approved by the River
     Basin Committee. It has been used by the Committee to take decisions regarding requests for
     new businesses to establish themselves within the APA. Key urgent activities have been
     identified, which are designed to help recover the APA environmentally, but their
     implementation has not yet been initiated. CODAU has secured funding for preparation of the
     full Management Plan, and expects to complete the process in eighteen months. The
     Municipality has signed agreements with several universities to conduct courses using the
     geo-processing center, which define the responsibilities of CODAU and the PMU and of the
     universities. The Municipality is supporting this initiative through the purchase of additional
     equipment for an additional room for the center. The first course is expected to begin in
     August 2014.

8. CODAU has also assumed responsibility for the monitoring of the quality and quantity of
   water resources in the Municipality. Having acquired the necessary equipment to do so,
   including boats with Doppler system, and assigned and trained staff to undertake weekly
   monitoring exercises. The resultant data is being made widely available through CODAU’s
   internet site.

9. A business plan to support the Llewellyn Ivor Price Paleontology Research Center was
   prepared, but no other specific activities were supported by the Project as the administrative
   responsibility of the Center’s was transferred to the University during Project implementation,
   and the University made the necessary arrangements to improve the Center’s sustainability
   with its own resources.

Planning and Management

10. After equipping and staffing an Environmental Secretariat in June 2012, the Municipality
    signed an agreement with the state environmental authority granting the Municipality the
    authority to issue environmental licenses up to Class IV23; for licenses above this class, the
    Municipal Environmental Secretariat conducts the background analysis together with state
    authorities. In 2013, it was able to process 1,132 licensing requests; increasing its capacity
    from original 635 in 2012. The Secretariat has been staffed with biologists, geologists and
    forestry engineers, and counts on adequate office space, equipment and vehicles to
    adequately carry out its supervision and inspection functions. It is also implementing several
    other measures to strengthen its capacity, including, signing agreements with universities to
    provide support in areas where it needs specialized input and having its staff benefit from
    several learning events provided by the state secretariat.

11. One of the Project’s most successful results was its comprehensive program of environmental
    education and social outreach. CODAU using CEA as one of its delivery mechanisms, has
    developed environmental training events and social communication activities for the


23
  Decree 44,309/2006, Deliberação Normativa Copam 74/04 defines the classification of the enterprises
following 6 categories: Classes I-IV range from small-medium-large size enterprises with small-medium
polluting potential; and, Classes V and VI are related to large size enterprises with medium to large
polluting potential.


                                                  30
    population at large, and especially for children aged eight to eleven. It has signed agreements
    with the Municipal Secretariats of Education and Health, and delivers programs both at
    schools and in specially equipped classrooms in the CEA. Its programs disseminate
    information on water management, conservation, on tooth brushing (conserving water), and
    on recycling and making goods from recycled materials. A specifically designed mascot,
    “Clarinha”, is used in pamphlets, publications and video distributed to children, and is
    apparently now synonymous with water conservation. The environmental education program
    developed and implemented by CODAU was considered good practice by the Bank
    supervision team.

12. CODAU also carried out a very effective social outreach campaign before and during the
    implementation of its major civil works under the Project in order to inform citizens, provide
    mechanisms for complaints, and help mitigate the difficulties that construction in the city
    center inevitably encountered. It routinely provided folders announcing the works, the
    purpose, the duration, etc., held meetings with residents in areas that would be affected,
    mobilized parking for the residents, and incorporated their suggestions in the works areas
    where possible.




                                                31
                                                                          BRAZIL
                                                                MUNICIPAL LENDING PROGRAM
                                                                UBERABA ÁGUA VIVA PROJECT

                                                                            Results Framework

Project Development Objective (PDO): To promote better living conditions for all residents of the Municipality of Uberaba through the promotion of           Status
integrated urban sanitation, environmental preservation, and expanded parks, recreational and cultural opportunities.                                        during
                                                                                                         Original     Revised Target                         restructuri
              PDO Level Results Indicators                       Unit of Measure        Baseline      Target in PAD          in            Actual            ng
                                                                                                                       Restructuring
                                                                                                                            PP
Indicator One:                                                                            2/3 of                           2/3 of        Volume of
Adequate water supply will be guaranteed while                   Volume of water       Q7,10=49           100%         Q7,10=490 l/s     water has            Revised in
maintaining Uberaba River flow at minimum levels                                        0 l/s with                    without rationing      been                PP
required under environmental legislation                                                rationing                                        maintained
                                                                                                                                         and water
                                                                                                                                          rationing
                                                                                                                                           was not
                                                                                                                                         registered
                                                                                                                                           for year
                                                                                                                                            2013.
Comment: Met.

CODAU is not yet measuring the water available in the Uberaba river upstream or downstream of the water intake. CODAU has acquired the equipment needed and has
trained its staff to start monitoring the water quantity. This is conditionality at CODAU’s water rights permit. However, considering that the average water intake
volume by CODAU is 905 l/s, ranging from the maximum of 975l/s and minimum of 756 l/s; and that the minimum average Uberaba river flow based on calculations
from 2007 appraisal documents is 1,700 l/s (no recent data is available); results that the minimum levels of water required under environmental legislation (490 l/s) has
been adequately complied with.

CODAU did not register rationing events in 2013; once all water project activities were concluded as well as operational improvements were carried out by CODAU
(based on the Water Loss Reduction Plan). In previous years, rationing was registered in few city neighborhoods during dry periods.
Indicator Two:                                                  WQI, and Water            2005:                                             WQI Bad,       Revised in
Water Quality Index of Uberaba River and Conquistinha        Quality Classification       WQI             Good             WQI Good,         Class IV      PP to read:
Stream                                                                                   Medium                              Class III                       Water
                                                                                        and Class                                                            Quality
                                                                                           IV                                                               Index of
                                                                                                                                                            Uberaba
                                                                                                                                                            River is



                                                                                        32
                                                                                                                                                                 improved
Comment: Not achieved.

The Uberaba wastewater treatment plant has been operating since June 2009. The volume (mass) of BOD pollution removed by the wastewater treatment plant (WWTP)
reached 160,200 (tons/year) in 2013 with 92 percent of removal (greater than the originally designed target of 90 percent). The WWTP has been receiving an average
volume of 232 l/s. It has the capacity of treating up to 480 l/s of wastewater, but was expected to treat around 280 l/s in the first years of implementation. The volume of
sewerage will increase once the remaining interceptors are finalized and connected to the WWTP.

The analysis of the water quality of the river Uberaba compared the data of BOD, DO and fecal coliforms levels in the following situations: a) simulation results of water
quality-2005 year average flow conditions in the stretch downstream (about 60 km) from Lajes stream (data from project appraisal); and, b) results of water quality
monitoring of river Uberaba in the period from October 2012 to September 2013, in the downstream stretch of Lajes stream, in a stretch of 36 km. The analysis of these
results does not allow considering that improvements in water quality have occurred in the Uberaba River until an average stretch of about 20 km downstream of Lajes
stream and the discharge point of the Uberaba WWTP. So, in general, the conditions simulated in 2005 remains the same, demonstrating that the river in this stretch is
still in class IV.

The current monitoring data demonstrate the significant increase of BOD and fecal coliforms in points immediately downstream of the Lajes and Juca streams (both
tributaries located immediately upstream of the Uberaba WWTP discharge point), with decreasing levels of DO. This situation is due to (i) the discharge, still
significant, of raw sewage in urban drainage channels and in the Lajes stream provided mainly by the drainage basins of Santos Dumont and São Bento avenues; and, (ii)
the existence of external polluting discharges (e.g. Fridge that inadequately treats its effluents and discharges with high organic load) to the Juca stream. This latest
discharge was only identified once the current monitoring procedure started. This inadequate discharge is causing the deterioration of the water quality of the river in the
stretch which masks any positive results of all investments made by the Project. The city environmental secretary, along with the environmental prosecutor’s office, has
caused the major polluter to reduce the release of effluents into the river.

Indicator Three:                                                   Water Quality
Environmental Classification of Uberaba River at points            Certification          Class IV         Class II                                             Dropped in
following discharge of treated sewage                                                      2005                                                                    PP
Indicator Four:                                                                            Focus           Focus               Focus               See
Citizen understanding of environmental problems and                                      Group/Sur      Group/Survey        Group/Survey         comment.
satisfaction with environmental services (WS&S, drainage                  -                 vey           Repeats             Repeats
parks)                                                                                   Summary
Comment: Met.

Beneficiary surveys carried out in November and December-2013 and in January-2014 have captured positive impressions and satisfaction by the municipality’s citizens.
See full results in project files and a summary in item 3.6 and Annex 5.

                                                            INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Intermediate Results (Component One): By year 3 the micro drainage works for the city center are completed
Revised Intermediate Result (Component One): By year 3 the Uberaba wastewater conveyance system and WWTP is completed, that will permit the
flow of sewage for treatment. By year 6: (i) the Conquistinha wastewater conveyance system and WWTP are completed, and (ii) drainage works and
sewerage system in the urban center are completed, thereby reducing the incidence of flooding and improving the water quality.
1. Change in the water quality of the Uberaba River             WQI and Water           WQWI         WQI Good,



                                                                                         33
                                                                Quality Classification     2005             Class II                                             Dropped in
                                                                                          Medium                                                                    PP
                                                                                         and Class
                                                                                            IV
2. Change in the water quality of the Conquistinha stream         WQI and Water           WQWI           WQI Good,
                                                                Quality Classification     2005           Class III                                              Dropped in
                                                                                          Medium                                                                    PP
                                                                                         and Class
                                                                                            IV
3. Occurrence of flooding in the city center in comparison              Years            Flooding                                                  See           Frequency
with intensity of rains                                                                  with rain          TR=25               TR=25            comment.            of
                                                                                           TR=2                                                                  Monitoring
                                                                                           years                                                                 Revised in
                                                                                                                                                                    PP
Comment: Met.

Monitoring reports of high rain events in the city center that occurred in December-2013 and January-2014 have shown that those avenues which have received macro
drainage interventions in the city center have not suffered any flood impacts. There are still macro drainage interventions to be finalized in the Santos Dumont and Santa
Beatriz avenues. There were not many raining events to be measured after conclusion of the macro drainage structures. The study to evaluate the recurrence of flooding
for different storm return periods was not conducted by the client.
4. Change in value of properties in area of influence of               Brazilian         Ave=R$3            +16%             + 16% (due to           +244
flood project                                                            Reals              7,000       (due to works)          works)
                                                                                           (2007)
Comment: Met.

According to personnel in charge of the appraisal of property in the municipality, the increase in the value of properties in the city center areas was positively impacted
by the implementation of the Project’s drainage works in the city center, which proved to be a very important factor given that the corresponding areas have not suffered
from any flood events since the drainage works were implemented. The area evaluated around the Leopoldino Retention Dam and the urban park have presented even
larger property increase (+313) not only because of the intervention, but also due to Brazil’s housing boom during project implementation.

5. Decrease in water losses                                               %                 38%              20%                 36%               32.8%         Revised in
                                                                                                                                                                    PP
Comment: Met.
During restructuring, this indicator was revised and the target decreased from 20 percent to a more realistic 36 percent. The initial target was too ambitious for the type
of activities that were being supported by the Project, as well its timeframe and resources allocated. For instance, SABESP, Sao Paulo State’s water supply and
sanitation company and one of Brazil’s most sophisticated utilities, has been implementing a water loss reduction program since 2008 that is investing a total of BRL 2.7
billion (approximately USD 1.56 billions) to reduce in a 10 year period their water loss percentage by 16.4 (from 29.5 percent in 2008 to 13.1 percent in 2018).
Comparing this to the Project’s reality indicates that the target set during Project preparation to reduce the water loss percentage from 38 to 20 percent in a 5 year period
with an original investment of USD 4.35 million (USD 4.94 million at restructuring) was unrealistic.




                                                                                          34
All results for water losses were based on the data contained in the Ministry of Cities’ national water supply and sanitation database (SNIS) report. The measured
indicators for 2012 are still to be reported by CODAU to SNIS. The December 2012 data was assessed by a water loss specialist who worked with the Borrower to
evaluate their water loss program. The 2013 water loss data was not available at the time the ICR was prepared.
6. Percentage of wastewater collected that is treated.                                                                                                     New
(Note: Wastewater collection coverage in the city is 99%)               %                   2%                              75%             44%          indicator
                                                                                                                                                        added in PP
Comment: Partially met.

The Uberaba WWTP implemented under the Project, along with the existing Capim WWTP and individual septic tanks treat 44 percent of all the wastewater currently
collected in urban Uberaba. Once the construction of the Conquistinha WWTP is concluded (expected until December 2014), the accumulated amount collected
wastewater that is treated would reach 60 percent; furthermore, once the sections of the sewerage collectors already constructed under the Project and those to be
constructed along with the macro drainage in Santos Dumont and Santa Beatriz avenues, are all finally connected to the Uberaba WWTP (expected until December,
2015), this indicator is expected to reach 90 percent, thus exceeding the original Project target value.

Intermediate Result (Component Two): By end of year 2 the Parque da Cidade is completed
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two): By end of year 2 the Parque das Lajes is completed
1. Volume of water in the Uberaba River for compliance                            2/3 of                                                                      Dropped in
with environmental regulations                                                  Q7,10=49         100%                                                            PP
                                                                                   0 l/s
2. Change in the number of visitors to the Parque da                                                                                                           Changed
Cidade (yearly average)                                                              0          >15,000                      >15.000                          park name
                                                                                                                                                72,000
                                                                                                                                                              to “Parque
                                                                                                                                                              das Lajes”
Comment: Significantly exceeded.

CODAU, using the Environmental Education Center at the Parque has developed environmental training events for the population at large but especially children aged
eight to eleven. The Park was visited by 38,692 inhabitants in 2009, rising to 93,823 visitors in 2012 and with an average annual visitations rate of 72,000 per year over
the life of the Project, which is far in excess of the Project target.
3. Change in the number of visitors to the Fossil Research                                                  +50%                                                Dropped in
Center                                                                                     21,000       (31,500 total)                                              PP
                                                                                           (2004)
4. Increase in donations to Center/Museum                                                R$100,00           +50%                                                Dropped in
                                                                                              0                                                                     PP
5. Management plan for a portion of the environmental                                        No                             Action Plan         Action Plan        New
protection area (APA) of the Uberaba River is elaborated           Hectares (ha) covered  existing                          prepared and         prepared.       indicator
and main recovery actions are executed                                                   plan, 0 ha                           1,500 ha           Recovery      added in PP
                                                                                           of area                           recovered         activities not
                                                                                         recovered                                             yet initiated.
Comment: Partially met.

The APA Action Plan was prepared and approved by the River Basin Committee. The Action Plan has been used by the Committee to make decisions regarding requests



                                                                                        35
by new business to establish themselves within the APA. Key urgent activities have been identified, which are designed to help recover the APA environmentally, but
their implementation has not yet been initiated.




Intermediate Result (Component Three): (a) Management plan for Municipal Secretariat of Environment is concluded, and (b) Physical and financial
implementation of the plan is undertaken on schedule
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Three): Half of the courses and training for Secretariat of Planning and SMA will be completed by year 3.
Municipal licensing has started in year 4.
1. Share of city environmental licensing applications that                                                                                         See         Revised in
are processed by the Municipality as opposed to the State                                   0             100%                  60%             comment.          PP
Comment: Apparently Met.
Since June 2012 the Municipal Secretary for Environment has started to evaluate and issue licenses (Classes I-IV) at the Municipal level and has increased its capacity
from 635 processes (in 2012) to 1,132 (in 2013), with an average of 94 requests being processed by the municipal body per month. The data of the licensing processes
for Uberaba Municipality that are being processed by the State (related to Classes V and VI) was not available for these periods. Therefore, it became impossible to
calculate the indicator as defined.


2. Population reached by the Environmental Education &
                                                                                                                                                       All
Social Communication Programs                                                                   0              All                  All
Comment: Met

One of the Project’s most successful results to date has been its program of environmental education and social outreach. CODAU delivered environmental training
events and social communication activities for the population at large. It has signed agreements with the Municipal Secretariats of Education and Health, and delivers
programs both at schools and in specially equipped classrooms in the CEA. Its programs disseminate information on water management, conservation, on hand washing
and tooth brushing (conserving water), and on recycling and making goods from recycled materials. A specifically designed mascot, “Clarinha”, is used in pamphlets,
publications and videos distributed to children, and is apparently now synonymous with water conservation. The environmental education program developed and
implemented by CODAU was considered good practice by the Bank supervision team.

CODAU also carried out a very effective social outreach campaign before and during the implementation of works in order to inform citizens, provide for complaints,
and help mitigate the difficulties that construction in the city center would entail. It routinely provided folders announcing the works, the purpose, the duration, etc., held
meetings with residents in areas that would be affected, mobilized parking for the residents, and incorporated their suggestions in the works areas where possible.


3. Project implementation goals are met (financial,
                                                                                                                                                      88%
physical, procurement, etc.)                                                                    0             N/A                   All
Comment: Substantially achieved.

The project listed 43 activities that were to be carried out, of which only five were not completed until by January 2014. These five outstanding activities are all expected




                                                                                           36
to be concluded by December 2015.




                                    37
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Summary

1. This annex presents in detail the economic evaluation carried out for the works implemented
   under the Uberaba Agua Viva Project. The evaluation was conducted for the same
   components analyzed during Appraisal, namely: (i) sanitation (wastewater collection and
   treatment); (ii) drainage; (iii) water supply; and (iv) the linear park. The same approach used
   during Appraisal – a cost-benefit analysis – was also used for this ICR evaluation.

2. The ex-post economic analysis of the Project transformed all Project costs to 2005 prices in
   order to eliminate the exchange rate fluctuation and civil works inflation, and shows that,
   project costs increased by 88 percent, being 21 percent related to the real increase of costs –
   the remaining is explained by an exchange rate fluctuation of 12 percent and an average
   inflation rate of 39 percent during the implementation of the Project. However, if the two
   activities dropped at restructuring were included as actual Project costs to compare with
   Project appraisal costs, the project costs increase would reach 166 percent, of which 75
   percent is related to the real increase of costs, and remaining 52 percent explained by
   exchange rate and inflation.

3. During Appraisal the fluctuations resulting from the subsequent macroeconomic volatility
   were not foreseen, were beyond the control of the Municipality of Uberaba and the Bank, and
   would have been difficult to predict. The real increase of costs that were controllable is, in
   fact, estimated at 75 percent and is attributed to (i) the adjustments in the cost estimates
   emerging from the detailed engineering designs; (ii) the final costs emerging from the works
   contracts themselves of the major Project interventions, resulting from, among other things,
   the Borrower’s efforts to coordinate interventions in the city center to minimize disruptions;
   and (iii) scaling up of original activities to include the implementation of micro drainage in
   key basins and creation of 12 ha of an urban park including the construction of a multi-use
   center for environmental education.

4. The Project’s water supply, the wastewater and the drainage components reached a great
   number of beneficiaries and, in the cases of the water supply improvements, the linear park,
   and one of the wastewater basins, actually exceeded the Appraisal beneficiary targets (see
   following table).


            Table 1 – Beneficiaries expected at appraisal versus actual by components

                                                               Actual Beneficiaries (percentage
 Components               Beneficiaries                       of Appraisal target)
                           Foreseen at Appraisal
 Drainage                  3,845 properties                    3,021 properties (nearly 79%)
                          Total population of Uberaba         Total population of Uberaba
 Water Supply
                          275,000                             315,000 (114.5%)

                          Non-revenue water losses: 38%       Non-revenue water losses:32.8%
                           193,997 inhabitants in Uberaba      217,847 inhabitants in Uberaba
 Wastewater System        basin                               basin (112%)



                                                38
                            81,121 in Conquistinha basin     The full intervention was not
                                                             concluded in Conquistinha basin.

  Linear Park (number of
                            60,000                           72,000 (120%)
 yearly average visitors)


5. Project Outcome Impact. The results of the economic analysis show that those works
   already implemented have generated benefits twice as large as their costs. The Project’s net
   benefits were as much as R$ 73 million, and its economic rate of return was 22.5 percent. The
   benefits were lower than expected at appraisal (R$ 270 million) for the following main
   reasons: (i) some of the civil works were not implemented and led to project delays; and (ii)
   the higher investment costs. However, despite these factors, the Project’s actual economic
   return was higher than the 18 percent estimated at Appraisal. When compared to the results of
   other similar municipal projects, such as Betim (which had a final EIRR of 18 percent for its
   infrastructure investments, and 15 percent of the other components), the results of the
   Uberaba project were greater.


     Table 2 - COMPARISON OF EXPECTED AND ACTUAL RESULTS (R$ 000)
                                     Expected PAD             ACTUAL
                              Net benefit             Net benefit
                               (R$ 000)          EIRR  (R$ 000)      EIRR
     Drainage                   45,848          20.8%   44,089       34.9%
     Water Supply              122,754          45.5%   20,405       54.0%
     Sewer Mains &WWTP          98,404          16.6%   7,254        13.3%
     Parque da Cidade            3,384          19.3%    1,937       23.4%
     Total                     270,390          18.2%   73,685       22.5%

6. Drainage and sewerage works were still being implemented at the time the ICR preparation,
   and were scheduled to be completed by December 2015. When these are concluded, it is
   estimated that the benefits will increase by R$ 28 million for the sewerage activities and by
   R$ 50 million for the drainage activities, with internal rates of return of 16 percent and 36
   percent, respectively. With these additional benefits, it is estimated that the Project will
   generate R$ 102 million of overall benefits and a return of 25 percent.

           Table 3 - ECONOMIC RESULTS WHEN ALL THE WORKS CONCLUDE
                                         Net benefit
                                          (R$ 000)           EIRR
           Drainage                        50,473            36.7%
           Sewer Mains &WWTP               28,741            16.4%
           Water                           20,405            54.0%
           Parque da Cidade                 1,937            23.4%
           Total project                  101,556            24.7%


Methodology

7. A cost benefit analysis was carried out for the works implemented in the following
   components: a) drainage; b) water supply; c) wastewater collection and treatment; and d)
   linear park. Costs and benefits were included as they actually occurred during and after the
   implementation. To make them comparable with those used at appraisal, both costs and

                                                 39
     benefits were adjusted to 2005 prices for the impact of inflation and exchange rate
                 24
     differences . Net benefit of the project was estimated as the incremental benefit from two
     scenarios: with and without project. The without project scenario was projected assuming that
     the situation existing at time of appraisal remained; while the with project scenario was
     projected including benefits already attained with the works. The cash flows were discounted
     using the same discount rate used at appraisal, which was 12 percent.

8. Benefits. Among the benefits already seen from the works are: a) reduction in risk and losses
   to life and property due to flooding control in specific areas of the city; b) efficiency
   improvement of water service provision through water losses reduction; c) environmental and
   health improvements derived from wastewater collection and treatment; d) increased access
   to recreational activities and to the environmental education center; and e) improved
   institutional capacity.

9. Costs include investment and operation. For each component, investment cost consisted of
   its actual costs plus the institutional component, which was added in proportion to the
   investment cost. This evaluation used the investment cost expressed at 2005 prices.

10. Actual Investment costs were transformed to 2005 prices to eliminate exchange rate
    differences and inflation rate. Table 4 compares the expected cost at appraisal plus
    counterpart fund (totaling USD 42.05M) to the actual investment cost (USD 79M), which
    results in 88% increase. Three reasons explain this increase:
        (a) 12% appreciation of the Brazilian Real to the USD. At appraisal the exchange rate
             was about BRL 2.5 per USD and it fluctuated to an average of 1.99 (figure).
        (b) 39% Inflation rate. This inflation was calculated as the average between construction
             price index and consumer price index. The construction price increased 73 percent
             from 2005 to 2013; the average corresponded to 46 percent (figure). The consumer
             price had a 33% average increase. This analysis worked with the resulting average of
             both, that is 39%.
        (c) After eliminating the exchange rate difference and the inflation rate, the resulting
             increase is 21%, which corresponds to real cost increase.

       Table 4. Investment Cost. Expected and Actual
                                                Appraisal        Actual         Increase %
       USD (000)                                  42,050         79,005            88%
       Breakdown of the cost increase:
          Appreciation of the Brazilian Real       2.25          1.99              12%
          Inflation Rate                                        112,692            39%
          Real cost increases                                                      21%




24
  According to IBGE, Consumer Price Index during the period was: 2005: 5.69%, 2006: 3.14%, 2007:
4.46%, 2008:5.90%, 2009: 4.31%, 2010: 5.91%, 2011: 6.50%, 2012: 5.84%, 2013: 5.91%. Construction
Price Index was: 2006: 5.4%, 2007: 5.2%, 2008: 9.1%, 2009:7.7%, 2010: 6.5%, 2011: 7.75%, 2012: 7.0%,
2013: 8.0%. According to the Brazilian Central Bank Annual average exchange rates were: 2005:2.53 ;
2006: 2.25 , 2007: 1.93, 2008: 1.62; 2009: 21.96; 2010: 1.81; 2011: 1.59; 2012: 2.05; 2013: 2.17.


                                                40
                            Actual Works (000 R$), Exchange Rate and Construc on Price Index INCC (2005‐2013)

                                        Valor contratado (000R$)           Índice INCC (mai 2005=1)       Câmbio (R$/US$)
                  18000.0                                                                                                             3.000

                  16000.0       2.53

                                           2.25                                                                                       2.500
                  14000.0                                                                                                    2.17
                                                                                                                  2.05
                                                        1.93                     1.96
                  12000.0                                                                     1.81                                    2.000
                                                                   1.62                               1.59
         000 R$



                  10000.0
                                                                                                                            1.728     1.500
                                                                                                                 1.600
                   8000.0                                                                             1.495
                                                                                             1.387
                                                                                1.303
                   6000.0                                          1.210                                                              1.000
                                           1.054       1.109
                                1.000
                   4000.0
                                                                                                                                      0.500
                   2000.0

                       .0                                                                                                             0.000
                                2005       2006        2007        2008         2009         2010     2011       2012       2013
                                                                                 Ano




11. However, if the costs of the two activities that were dropped from the project at restructuring
    are also considered to compare Project appraisal estimates against final total Project actual
    costs, the figures results would be changed to:

      Table 5. Investment Cost with dropped activities. Expected and Actual
                                                 Appraisal         Actual                                                   Increase %
      USD (000)                                    42,050         112,000                                                     166%
      BRL (000)                                    94,541         236,128                                                        -
      Breakdown of the cost increase:
         Appreciation of the Brazilian Real         2.25            2,11                                                         6%
         Inflation Rate                                                                                                         43%
         Real cost increases                                                                                                    75%


12. Operating costs corresponded to actual costs of operation of each component. CODAU
    provided information for sanitation and water components; while the municipal prefecture
    and the Secretariat of the Environment provided information for drainage, linear park and the
    educational center. Current costs were also transformed to 2005 prices using the inflation
    rate during the period. Financial prices were transformed to economic prices using the same
    conversion factors as at the appraisal.

Estimation of benefits

13. A summary of the methodologies used at appraisal and at the ICR for estimating the benefits
    of each component is presented in Table 5.

 Table 5. COMPARISON BETWEEN METHODOLOGIES USED AT APPRAISAL AND ICR
 COMPONENTS              BENEFITS          METHODOLOGY TO ESTIMATE BENEFITS
                    PAD            ICR        PAD                    ICR
  Sanitation                  Increase of               Tariff paid by customers for
               Increase of
 (main sewers                 sewage      WTP          treated sewage as an
               sewage treated
 and WWTP)                    treated                  approximation of WTP




                                                                              41
                                                                                Reduction of operating
                                                      WTP of having              cost of cubic meter
                    Guarantee                        continue supply,            produced and distributed
                                     Reduction of
 Water              adequate water                   eliminating                 when physical losses
                                     UFW
                    supply                           rationing and               reduce
                                                     intermittence              Increase of revenue when
                                                                                 commercial losses reduce
                    Reduction of     Reduction of     Increase of
 Drainage                                                                    Increase of property values
                    flooding         flooding        property values
                                     Educational
 Park                                                                        Avoided cost.
                                     Center
                                                                             Approximation of WTP based
                    Park             Park            WTP                     on entry payment in similar
                                                                             parks


Sanitation. Sewer Mains and WWTP

14. The works foreseen at appraisal included two sewage treatment plants: Uberaba, and
    Conquistinha, which would have served the almost the whole population of Uberaba. The
    works actually implemented consisted of the conveyance system for both systems and the
    Uberaba wastewater treatment plant. Projected beneficiaries at appraisal corresponded to the
    whole population of Uberaba. Actual benefits are related to 480 l/s of sewage treated, which
    correspond to about 75% of total population. Currently the WWTP is treating 232 l/s, which
    corresponds to about 106 thousand inhabitants. New customers are being connected and
    some sewers pipes are being concluded to allow the plant to operate at full capacity. This
    evaluation worked in two stages: a) current beneficiaries; and b) total beneficiaries when the
    works are concluded.

                              193,997 inhabitants in the Uberaba        217,847 in Uberaba basin and no
     Wastewater System       basin and 81,121 in the                   investment was concluded in
                             Conquistinha basin                        Conquistinha basin

15. The benefits at appraisal were estimated using Contingent Valuation Method to estimate the
    Willingness to Pay for the investments that would create a better environment in the city. The
    results showed a WTP of R$ 8.60 per household per month.

16. For this evaluation, benefits were estimated using the tariff actually paid by customers for
    sewage treatment. In 2009 CODAU established a tariff for sewage treated as a percentage of
    water tariff. Before 2009 CODAU charged 50% of water tariff for sewerage service. From
    2010 and on, CODAU has been increasing this percentage to cover operating expenses of
    sewage treatment. The percentage has increased from 50% to 60% in 2010, to 70% in 2012
    and it will be 100% in 2014.

17. Table 6 presents average tariffs charged by CODAU for sewerage and sewage treatment, as
    well as corresponding bill per household per month for sewage treatment. This value is
    converted to 2005 prices and the result for 2014 (R$ 8.8/hh/month) shows a similar value to
    the WTP obtained at appraisal (R$ 8.6/hh/month)

      Table 6. Tariffs Charged by CODAU for Sewerage and Sewage Treatment
               Tariff for Sewerage Sewerage     Sewage     Sewage treatment          Sewage treatment
                sewage treatment     Tariff    treatment       Per hh                    per hh

                                                    42
             as % of water tariff   R$/m3       R$/m3        R$/hh/month    2005 R$/ month/hh
     2,009          50%              0.75
     2,010          60%              0.78        0.15            2.28              1.81
     2,011          50%              0.83        0.18            2.72              2.04
     2,012          70%              0.91        0.34            4.77              3.36
     2,013          50%              0.83        0.33            5.13              3.42
     2,014         100%              0.91        0.91            14.02             8.81

Water supply

18. This component was expected to secure the system’s main water supply regularizing the flow
    of the Uberaba River through the transfer of water from the river Claro. It included also a
    program to reduce water losses including modernization of commercial operations and
    automation of the operation of the supply system and water treatment plants. The benefits
    were estimated through the willingness to pay for having continuous supply.

19. The actual water component consisted of works for reducing unaccounted for water. No
    works for regularizing the flow of the Uberaba river were implemented nor any automation of
    the operation of the water system. The benefits consisted of those related with the reduction
    of losses, which are: a) reduction of costs of producing water when physical losses decreased;
    and b) increase of revenues when commercial losses reduced and so volume of water billed
    increases.

        Table 7. Benefits of reduction of unaccounted for water
                      Unaccounted For water              Operating cost    Water Tariff
                                 %                      R$/m3 produced     R$/m3 billed
          2008                 42.86%                         0.63             1.37
          2009                 39.39%                         0.65             1.51
          2010                 37.79%                         0.75             1.55
          2011                 33.50%                         0.79             1.67
          2012                 32.80%                         0.92             1.82

20. It was assumed that 50 percent of losses go to physical losses, and the remaining 50 percent
    goes to commercial losses. Costs and tariffs were converted in 2005 prices. Savings in
    operating cost corresponded to reduction of volume produced times operating cost; increase
    in revenue corresponded to increase in volume billed times tariff. Net benefits consisted of
    the sum of savings in production costs plus increase in revenue.

Drainage

21. The drainage component was supposed to benefit 3,845 real estate properties located in
    flooding areas. The component included macro drainage investment to reduce the incidence
    of flooding for rain events with recurrence period of 25 years. The benefits were estimated
    based on real estate prices, which were about 16% lower in properties located in flood prone
    areas. The difference in property value was estimated as R$ 6,053 per registered property.
    Beside the property value, damages costs were estimated as R$ 2,509 per property per year.

22. For this evaluation, the property value was also used to estimate the benefits. Information
    from the registry of property values used to calculate property taxes by the municipality
    (IPTU) was used. Value of property from 2008 and 2013 was compared in the areas where
    drainage works were implemented and the results are shown in table 8.

                                                 43
   Table 8. Increase in Property value benefited with drainage woks
                                                  2008              2014             Increase
                                               BRL per m2         BRL per m3            %
      Value- Leopoldino de Oliveira Ave.
     BRL/m2                                        300              1,500
     BRL/m2 2005 prices                            263               943              258%
         Value - Guilherme Ferreira Ave.
     BRL/m2                                        250              1,200
     BRL/m2 2005 prices                            220               755              244%
        Value - Clarecida Almirante Ave.
     BRL/m2                                        140              1,000
     BRL/m2 2005 prices                            123               629              411%
         Value - Professor Francisco Ave.
     BRL/m2                                         60               500
     BRL/m2 2005 prices                             53               314              497%

23. According to personnel in charge of properties’ appraisal in the municipality, the increase
    was due to drainage works, which indeed was very important as these areas have not had any
    flooding since the works were implemented. As there is no study that proves that, this
    evaluation estimated the benefits with a lower increase and in order to go on the conservative
    side it uses 50% of the increase of the property value.

Linear Park

24. At appraisal, the benefits were calculated using Contingent Valuation Technique to estimate
    the WTP, which was estimated at R$ 18.69/hh/month.

25. The evaluation for the ICR used two parameters to measure the benefits: (a) entry value for
    another park in Uberaba; and (b) price of renting rooms with same characteristics of those
    available at the educational center.

    (a) Benefits of the park. The park has had in average 72 thousand visitors per year in the
        period 2009-2013. They do not pay any fare for entering to the park. As approximation
        of the willingness to pay, the entry fee of R$ 3 per person paid at Peiropolis park located
        at 20 km of Uberaba was used.

        Table 9. Visitors to the Park
                                Kids                       Adults               Total
           2009                28,692                      10,000               38,692
           2010                76,788                      15,000               91,788
           2011                52,663                      29,300               81,963
           2012                56,523                      37,300               93,823
           2013                36,669                      13,800               50,469

    (b) Renting prices. The educational center has been used for courses and events. If the
        education center had not been built, other rooms would have to be rented for the courses.
        There are 2 rooms and 2 auditoriums. The rooms are used weekdays all yearlong; while
        the auditoriums are used weekdays during the school calendar, which is 9 months per
        year. The price of renting a room of the same characteristics is R$ 2,000 per month, and
        the auditorium R$ 500 per day. The prices were transformed to 2005 prices and applied

                                                 44
          to the number of rooms and auditoriums.

Results

26. As foreseen at appraisal results show that the project is economically feasible with return of
    22 percent and benefits of R$ 73 million. Drainage and water supply generate 88 percent of
    the benefits with returns of 35 and 54 percent respectively.
    Table 10 - COMPARISON OF EXPECTED AND ACTUAL RESULTS (R$ 000)
                                     Expected PAD             ACTUAL
                              Net benefit             Net benefit
                               (R$ 000)          EIRR  (R$ 000)      EIRR
    Drainage                    45,848          20.8%   44,089       34.9%
    Water Supply               122,754          45.5%   20,405       54.0%
    Sewer Mains &WWTP           98,404          16.6%   7,254        13.3%
    Parque da Cidade             3,384          19.3%    1,937       23.4%
    Total                      270,390          18.2%   73,685       22.5%


27. The results are very satisfactory given that actual investment costs -without inflation and
    exchange rate differences- were21 percent higher than expected at appraisal. Net benefits
    obtained were as much as R$ 73 million with returns of 22 percent. Despite the good results,
    these benefits were lower than expected at appraisal (R$ 270M) due mainly to : a) some of
    the works were not implemented; b) higher investment costs; and c) project delays. Yet
    actual returns were higher than the 18 percent expected.

28. There are some works in drainage and sewerage that are being implemented and will be
    completed by 2015. When they are concluded benefits will increase to R$ 28M in sewerage
    and R$ 50M in drainage with internal rates of return of 16% and 36 % respectively. With the
    additional benefits the project will be generating R$ 102 million benefits and return of 25%.

            Table 11 - ECONOMIC RESULTS WHEN ALL THE WORKS CONCLUDE
                                          Net benefit
                                           (R$ 000)           EIRR
            Drainage                        50,473            36.7%
            Sewer Mains &WWTP               28,741            16.4%
            Water                           20,405            54.0%
            Parque da Cidade                 1,937            23.4%
            Total project                  101,556            24.7%




                                                45
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                   Responsibility/
            Names                                  Title                   Unit
                                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio     Senior Economist                         AFTP4
Jose Augusto Carvalho             Consultant                               LCSPT
Dean A. Cira                      Lead Urban Specialist                    AFTU1
Martin P. Gambrill                Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist    LCSWS
Luiz C. Gazoni                    Consultant                               LCSPT
Kathy A. Lindert                  Sector Leader                           LCSHD
Yasuhiko Matsuda                  Sr Public Sector Specialist             EASPW
Claudio Mittelstaedt              Consultant                              LCSFM
Lilian Pena Pereira Weiss         Water & Sanitation Specialist           LCSWS
Paula Dias Pini                   Senior Urban Development Specialist      AFTU1
Ricardo Rocha Silveira            Senior Operations Officer               HDNHE
Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst         Sector Manager                           SASDC
                                                                          LCSUW-
Carlos E. Velez                   Lead Economist
                                                                            HIS
Supervision/ICR
Joao Vicente Novaes Campos        Financial Management Specialist         LCSFM        FMS
Frederico Rabello T. Costa        Senior Procurement Specialist           LCSPT         PS
Juliana Menezes Garrido Pereira   Sr Water & Sanitation Specialist        LCSWS     Current TTL
Menahem Libhaber                  Consultant (WSS infrastructure Spec.)   EASIS
Paula Dias Pini                   Senior Urban Development Specialist     AFTU1      Former TTL

Alexandre Fortes                  Consultant (Environmental Spec)         LCSEN
Eri Watanabe                      Consultant (Operations Analyst)         LCSWS

Julian Thorton                    Consultant (Water loss Spec.)           LCSWS

Guilhermo Hernandez               Consultant (WSS management Spec.)       LCSWS

Soraya Melgaço                    Consultant (Social/resettlement Spec)   LCSOS
Adauto Santos                     Consultant (WSS infrastructure Spec.)   LCSWS

Clarisse Dall’acqua               Sr. Environmental/Social Specialist     LCSEN

Lizmara Kirchner                  Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist     LCSWS    Current co-TTL

Suzana Abbott                     Consultant (ICR main author)            LCSWS

                                  Consultant (Economic & Financial
Luz Maria Gonzalez                                                        LCSWS
                                  Analysis at ICR stage)

(b) Staff Time and Cost




                                                    46
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                USD Thousands (including
                                               No. of staff weeks
                                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                     1.10                            7.74
  FY05                                                    21.13                          114.51
  FY06                                                     5.81                           25.80
  FY07                                                     7.38                           60.66
                                 Total:                   35.42                          208.71
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                     3.85                           21.10
  FY08                                                    12.43                           49.58
 FY09                                                     16.25                           62.97
 FY10                                                     14.58                           74.37
 FY11*                                                     7.81                           39.55
 FY12*                                                     9.99                           58.13
 FY13*                                                     9.74                           45.08
                                 Total:                   74.65                          350.78
* The Staff Time and Costs for FY11-FY13 do not include procurement, financial management or safeguards
supervision time as these were funded off-the-top, nor do they reflect the time spent by Management on Project
oversight nor for legal services as these were covered by the CMU.




                                                     47
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The PMU has carried out three simple satisfaction surveys: November 2013, December
2013 and January 2014. The detailed surveys are on Project files. The main results of
these surveys are:

First survey: November 2013
Sample: not informed

Flood aspects in the areas surrounding: Trevo São Marcos, Guilherme Ferreira,
Leopoldino de Oliveira, Santa Luzia Church and Fernando Costa.

Summary results:
Question                              Percentage              Unit
Perception on the reduction of                     78         Inhabitants noted the change
water volume in the streets during
raining events

Any impacts of the raining events                  4          Responded positively
from October 01-05, 2013
Was the odor during the raining                    58         Good odor
events normal
Satisfaction about the civil works                 76         Satisfied



Second survey: December 2013

    (A) Urban park around the Leopoldino retention dam (sample – 80 inhabitants)

Summary of main results:
Question                              Percentage              Unit
How frequent do you come to the                    89         During weekends and up to 3x
park?                                                         per week.
Is it better than before the works?                70         Yes
What do you usually do in the                      89         Walk, run and leisure activities
Park?                                                         with family
Is the area well conserved?                        88         Think great and regular

    (B) Flood aspects in the city center (sample – 100 inhabitants)

Summary of main results:
Question                              Percentage              Unit
Before the works, were you                         59         Yes.
impacted by raining events?
Do you know about the drainage                     67         Yes
works that were carried out?
After the works, did things get                    48         Yes or didn’t know.
better?

                                                   48
After the works, does flood                      83         No or didn’t know.
occur?



Third survey: January 2014

    (A) Flood aspects in the city center where works have taken place (sample – 250
        inhabitants)

Summary of main results:
Question                            Percentage              Unit
Before the works, were you                       91         Yes.
impacted by raining events?
Do you know about the drainage                   98         Yes
works that were carried out?
After the works, did things get                  77         Yes.
better?
After the works, does flood                      61         No or didn’t know.
occur?



    (B) Flood aspects in the neighborhood where works have taken place (sample – 100
        inhabitants)

Summary of main results:
Question                            Percentage              Unit
Before the works, were you                       59         Yes.
impacted by raining events?
Do you know about the drainage                   67         Yes
works that were carried out?
After the works, did things get                  48         Yes.
better?
After the works, does flood                      83         No or didn’t know.
occur?



    (C) Flood aspects in the city center where works have NOT taken place (sample – 100
        inhabitants)

Summary of main results:
Question                            Percentage              Unit
Are you impacted by raining                      99         Yes.
events?
What happens during flood                        64         Flood in the street only
events?                                          32         Flood in the street and at home.
Did any flood event occur                        95         Yes
recently?
Do you know about the drainage                   56         Yes
works that will be carried out?
After the works, do expect things                55         Yes.
to get better?

                                                 49
After the works, does flood will                   60     No or didn’t know.
still occur?



    (D) Urban park around the Leopoldino retention dam (sample – 80 inhabitants)

Summary of main results:
Question                              Percentage          Unit
How frequent do you come to the                    90     During weekends and up to 3x
park?                                                     per week.
Is it better than before the works?                70     Yes
What do you usually do in the                      89     Walk, run and leisure activities
Park?                                                     with family
Is the area well conserved?                        89     Think great and regular



    (E) CODAU performance (sample – 400 inhabitants)

Summary of main results:
Question                              Percentage          Unit
Water quality                                      80     Highly satisfied or Satisfied
Continuity of water service                        69     Highly satisfied or Satisfied.
provision
Proactive water rationing                          89     Is aware
awareness
Sewage system                                      70     Highly satisfied or Satisfied
Time to deliver maintenance                        66     Highly satisfied or Satisfied
services
Quality of the services delivered                  74     Highly satisfied or Satisfied
Parque das Barrigudas as a                         12     Satisfied
leisure park                                       46     Don’t know.




                                                   50
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1. This report presents and structures the main results/recommendations of the Workshop on
   Lessons Learned from the Água Viva Project—Municipality of Uberaba/Minas Gerais,
   carried out in the Municipal Library of Uberaba, Minas Gerais on June 17, 2013. Please find
   the full report on Project files.

2. The Workshop, organized by the World Bank, was attended by representatives of the UGP
   (Project Implementation Unit) of the Água Viva Project, of the Municipality of Uberaba and
   of CODAU—Centro Operacional de Desenvolvimento e Saneamento de Uberaba, in all 31
   participants. In addition to the above representatives, World Bank mission staff also
   participated.

3. The complete findings and conclusions of each of the phases and tables, followed by a
   synthesis of lessons learned in each of the phases carried out during the Workshop.

A. Design/Preparation, Implementation and Monitoring of the Água Viva Project

4. In relation to the design/preparation of the Água Viva Project, the following principle lessons
   were presented:
    The structure of the UGP and the training of its staff at the start and periodically
       throughout is fundamental to the success of the Project in each of its phases;
    Avoid the distancing of the UGP and achieve greater integration with the personnel of the
       Municipality from the start and in all phases of the project;
    The lack of data and information, and the lack of prior diagnostics associated to incipient
       activities lead to difficulties in identifying needs, developing proposals and integrating
       actions in the project’s design phase;
    There is a need to focus on realistic objectives and targets, compatible with the amount of
       resources and execution capacity and counterpart funding so that the commitments made
       can be realized;
    Exchange rate risks should be considered in project design and preparation

5. In relation to the implementation of the Água Viva Project, the following principle lessons
   were presented:
    The implementation of a program depends to a large extent on having a well-structured
       UGP, and of the training of its staff for planning and management of projects, as well as
       its appropriate relationship and placement in the structure of the municipal government;
    Planning is fundamental to ensure good physical and financial implementation;
    Exchange rate risks that were not appropriately identified affected the availability of
       needed resources in accordance with budgeted amounts and complicated project
       implementation and increased the demands on the UGP to obtain additional resources
    The challenges of a project financed by an international organization leads to the
       development of local capacity and in the case of the UGP for the Água Viva Project
       transformed it into a unit charged with mobilizing resources from other sources
    The implementation of a program financed by an international organization requires the
       following and applying of procedure of the financier, and consequently changes in
       municipal norms, practices and processes. The requirements of the international


                                               51
        organization many times conflict with legal requirements of the municipality, leading to
        concern and delays. It is not easy to learn and accept to work with international norms;
       It is important to expand the use of resources and capacities existing in the municipality,
        to avoid distancing the UGP and to avoid conflicts between the project and the local
        public bureaucracy;
       Working with different financing sources, like the IBRD and CEF, makes planning and
        coordination difficult, especially when the activities are interdependent like the
        interceptors and water mains.

6. Finally, in relation to monitoring of the Água Viva Project, the following principle lessons
   were presented:
    Monitoring should be seen as a permanent, continuous process, starting with the
       beginning of implementation, and it is important since then to count on SIG to support
       monitoring and evaluation activities. Without this, each IBRD mission requires an
       overload of work to obtain data at the last minute;
    The definition of appropriate indicators is fundamental for monitoring. Multiple or
       ambitious indicators, associated to precarious information systems/data bases
       complicated the monitoring for the Água Viva Project. These issues were only resolved
       towards the end of the project, with the procurement research tools and the handling of
       data.

B. Findings from the Implementation of Components of the Água Viva Project

7. Following is a summary of the lessons learned with relation to results of Component 1 –
   Environmental Sanitation Services:
    Although the works were not concluded, the Project produced significant results for the
       resident of Uberaba, reducing in a significant albeit incomplete manner the adverse
       impact of flooding in the city center and improving the quality of water in the Uberaba
       River. Residents have also benefited from an increase in the collection and treatment of
       sewage, even though the effectiveness of the sewage treatment plants is not as expected
       due to the phasing in installing the interceptors.
    The improvement in water losses through replacement of water mains and improvements
       in management and collections in CODAU though replacement of micro meters are
       important accomplishments, but would have been even more significant if the
       implementation of the Water Loss Control Program had been prioritized
    The integration and coordination of works, under all components/activities is of
       fundamental importance to ensure results. The increased odors in the city center,
       resulting from the installation of drains with the completion of other works that would
       eliminate sewage, for example, affect the perception of results by the population
    Integrated actions of drainage and sewage should constitute the focus of activities aimed
       at ensuring environmental improvements
    The basic requirement for sustainability of interventions is the coordination of activities
       by the different actors and levels of government. It is necessary to provide for the
       operation and maintenance of equipment installed and services provided, and to ensure
       the availability of resources for this
    Supervision and legal provisions constitute other essential factors for the sustainability of
       results of environmental sanitation services
    Dissemination and environmental education are essential for the efficient use of services
       and equipment installed, and their maintenance


                                               52
       Good social communication, well developed as under the Project, contributed greatly to
        reduce potential conflicts during construction and the normal inconveniences it entailed
       Good project designs are essential for this component

8. Following is a summary of the lessons learned with relation to results of Component 2 –
   Environmental and Cultural Preservation and Recovery:
    The results under this component fell well short of original targets. The strategy of
       beginning with works, appeared the correct one, but turned out to be inappropriate. This
       was because it attracted the population to use areas that did not yet possess conditions of
       environmental sustainability as the result of other factors such as the discharge of sewage
       from the treatment plant resulting from delays in connections and effectiveness of the
       treatment plants and others
    Although the implementation of this component improved in large measure the
       perception of project actors to the issue of environmental, historic and cultural
       preservation, this was not sufficient to overcome the general tendency of viewing the
       activities it supported as a second priority in comparison to the works, which in the end
       resulted in the use of the small amount of resources for this component
    Good planning, conducive to existing conditions and the possibilities of improvement and
       transformation are much more complex for activities aimed at environmental, historic and
       cultural preservation which combine different elements than for works projects
    Continued environmental education is fundamental for this component, but this is
       something still new and incipient in our society
    The establishment of dedicated structures, like the APA and the Environmental
       Secretariat, and the increase in technical and financial resources for these structures are
       fundamental for the sustainability of the activities required. Some progress was made on
       this, like the initial structuring of the environmental activities, the purchase of equipment
       for geo-processing and the establishment of a database for APA management, but more is
       needed.

9. Following is a summary of the lessons learned with relation to results of Component 3 –
   Planning and Project Management:
    The mastery of project technology and of management and supervision by the UGP and
       its influence among the broader municipal administration is among the main results
       obtained under Component 3, creating a local capacity for negotiation, mobilization and
       expansion of resources and monitoring
    The increase in local capacity for management was also relevant in the environmental
       aspects, as a result of the component, by the establishment and environmental monitoring
       in relevant units, resulting in a data base and the strengthening of the municipal
       administration that began to analyze and issue environmental licensing
    Not being able to implement the Water Loss Control Program was an important
       frustration under the component, repeating the similar challenge reported for Component
       1. This reflection, nevertheless and at the same time, reveals a learning experience with
       respect to project management that created new insights into the importance of
       prioritizing activities
    It is worth repeating here, like other activities evaluated, the importance and success of
       social communication activities and their importance in mitigating social impacts during
       works execution in urban areas
    Different groups viewed the withdrawal of the management and supervision consultants
       during the end of the first year of the project differently. For the UGP, it was seen as a
       loss that led to difficulties and delays for project management. For the municipal

                                                53
        administration, which saw this as an opportunity to save resources, which was apparently
        the motivation behind the decision, it was beneficial, both in terms of saving resources
        for the works, but also by having internalized the functions for the municipality,
        demonstrating the capacity to implement, and producing lower-cost technical solutions
        for the works. A third group considered that the problems with the consultants resulted
        from the duplication of roles between the consulting firm, the UGP and the municipal
        administration, that led to a duplication of efforts and generated additional work. In the
        discussions on this subject, it became evident that the differences in views with respect to
        the organization and strategy for project implementation and supervision were not
        addressed effectively during preparation, and remained an issue until the end. The
        difference in remuneration between the consultants and the municipal professionals was
        apparently at the root of this issue
       Related to the above, the importance of strengthening the municipalities own units,
        including the need for the rational use of human resources was highlighted as a lesson
        and prospect for sustainability.

C. Management of the Água Viva Project

10. The lessons learned with the management of the Água Viva Project can be summarized as
    follows:
     The pace of work of a municipal administration is determined by norms and practices of
        a bureaucratic nature. This makes it difficult to respond to the needs of a project’s
        implementation. One of the solutions is to structure a UGP with dynamic individuals,
        knowledgeable of administrative requirements in several areas, from among the
        municipality’s staff
     The integration of the UGP with the various secretariats is fundamental for the
        satisfactory progress of the project. As a temporary structure, the UGP runs the risk of
        becoming alienated, and this risk is increased with its offices outside of the municipal
        offices
     The big lessons of the Água Viva Project in respect to relationships with society were the
        emphasis given to communication programs, the establishment of an open channel and a
        constant dialogue, informing the population and its representative agents of the purposes,
        concepts, requirements and disturbances of the project, discussing together solutions that
        respond to both their needs and those of implementation
     Project management needs to work closely with suppliers/contractors, defending and
        demanding compliance with contracts, but cognizant of issues faced by suppliers,
        building, to the extent possible a partnership. Supervision and monitoring are important
        instruments to ensure compliance with contracts. Changes in project design and
        scheduling priorities are a constant challenge in supervising contracts and maintaining
        relationship with suppliers/contractors
     The full understanding and knowledge by the UGP of the procedures of financiers
        represents a challenge and precondition for a productive relationship with them. In the
        case of the Água Viva Project the disposition of the financiers to respond to, orient and
        resolve problems that arose were fundamental throughout implementation. Training staff
        to master the project technologies, following the procedures of each financier and a
        positive attitude of municipal staff to respond to demands are both necessary.
        Compliance with deadlines and good projects are needed for this.




                                                54
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


(Translation of the Borrower’s letter 049/2014, dated March 17, 2014, signed by the Municipal
Mayor, regarding comments to the draft ICR. Original letter is on Project files)

The Municipality of Uberaba, through the Project Management Unit (UGP – in Portuguese),
presents to you this document, our comments on the Final Implementation and Conclusion Report
(ICR) for the Agua Viva Project.

The Municipality of Uberaba has advanced substantially in the area of environmental sanitation:
in the last few years, more than 300 million BRL were invested in works and activities for
improving public water supply, sanitation, urban drainage, and environmental preservation with
the aim of securing the improvement of our community’s environmental quality.

The audacious Agua Viva Project grew out of the initiative of the Municipal Prefecture of
Uberaba – PMU and the Operational Center of Development and Water and Sanitation of
Uberaba – CODAU, to broaden and modernize existing urban services, taking care that the
municipality improved and maintained its social, economic, and environmental indicators.

The initiative to seek the World Bank resources was evaluated as favorable, because “the
justification for the participation of the World Bank was strong. The World Bank had been
supporting the development of cities in Brazil over the course of the years, and had realized
extensive analysis and technical assistance works in the area. The Brazil Municipal APL Loan
Program was an important element for the implementation of a strategy for municipal lending.”

All these efforts sought to promote better living conditions for all the residents of the
municipality of Uberaba through the promotion of integrated urban environmental sanitation,
environmental conservation, and the expansion of parks and recreational and cultural
opportunities.

Due to the occurrence of problems identified in the Municipality of Uberaba arising from
flooding in the city center, environmental degradation of the banks of the Uberaba River, the
Conquistinha stream and its offshoots perceived principally through the high levels of pollution
of its water bodies (due to wastewater discharge and silting), and an insufficient water supply
(pumped from the Uberaba River) to fill the needs of the population (drought of 2002 and the
railway accident of 2003), the Municipal Prefecture of Uberaba- PMU and the Operational Center
for Development and Sanitation of Uberaba – CODAU, together requested this financing from
the World Bank. The Project was formatted with three initial components: Component (I)
Environmental Sanitation; Component (II) Environmental and Cultural Preservation and
Recuperation Component; and (III) Planning and Management; initially 40% counterpart funding
on the part of the Municipality and 60% on the part of the IBRD, although some changes were
made during the preparation period.
The report considerations regarding the Project Preparation were pertinent, since fundamental
issues were addressed for consideration for the final evaluation of the success of project
implementation, including:

1. Underestimated initial costs;
2. Necessity of an initial phase for preparation of detailed engineering designs for sewage and
   drainage systems, which would then alter the time frame for disbursement;


                                               55
3. Ambitious project result framework;
4. Short implementation time period, with multiple actions to be executed;
5. CODAU and PMU have not implemented, as of the current time, the mechanisms and
   instruments necessary for monitoring the results;
6. The majority of the land necessary for the implementation of the works was not acquired at
   the time of loan approval, and an involuntary resettlement plan to identify the necessary
   procedures was not initially elaborated;
7. The transitions, following municipal elections, that took place during implementation, as
   well as other national transitions during approval of the Loan Guarantee..

This is an important point to highlight in this report “the initial delays in the signing of the loan
and guarantee agreements, and the efficacy (due to such a long process of Congressional
approval and the time necessary for the issuance of the certificates needed for the sovereign
guarantee)resulted in the Project Development Objective (PDO) and Implementation Progress
(IP) ratings to be downgraded to Unsatisfactory and Moderately Unsatisfactory, respectively, for
a short period (of six months) in 2008.”

These delays motivated first by technical questions occasioned by the change in management and
second by politics, related to the approval by the Senate, came to be a substantial negative
influence on the effectiveness of project implementation.

Despite this, however, the Municipality began to implement the Project financed with counterpart
funds, with the object of improving and modernizing existing urban services.
During implementation the Municipality always maintained the commitment to conclude the
works pre-established in the Project program; however, these and other factors like the
devaluation of the dollar during the period had an impact.

This being the case, it was necessary to bring in resources from other sources, in a larger part
from the Federal Government’s Programa Pro Saneamento and Programa de Acerleração do
Crescimento – PAC I and II.

With this, the institutional structure began to work with two management demands, with the same
local team and the same sites to implement the works, making the operationalization of the
processes of the two sources of financing more difficult; slowing even more the expected results.

The majority of the activities and works of the Project were satisfactorily concluded, as described
in the World Bank report, resulting in a general assessment of moderately satisfactory. “The
project is still very relevant for the priorities of the Municipality of Brazil and the borrower has
shown great commitment throughout implementation of the project. The major part of the Project
activities was concluded before project closing. As the monitoring had been a Project difficulty
since the beginning, the indicators were not measured in the best way possible; however the
majority of the targets were achieved. The evaluation of the efficiency of the project was already
better than expected during preparation.”

The World Bank had a fundamental role in this process, and as such the Municipality completed a
great set of works using resources from diverse sources, such as the Federal Government, through
PAC I and II; FHIDRO; the State government and others, as well as counterparts of the
Municipality and CODAU. These activities were the following:




                                                 56
Sanitation:

Specifically with regard to sanitation, the actions proposed to implement an absolute separation
system in the city center for the conduction of sewage, without drainage, to reach the wastewater
treatment. In the Uberaba River System, the Francisco Velludo Wastewater Treatment Plant
(WWTP) in the Uberaba River and the Rio Uberaba waste water conveyance system were
constructed to receive the wastewater interceptors from the city center. The engineering designs
for the interceptors were financed by the World Bank and the works were almost completed. Due
to the decision of the Municipality, it was not fully completed in order to make its
implementation together with drainage canals more viable, and 17% of the works are still to be
completed. To complete the system, a service order will be issued by the second half of March
for the construction of the Pumping Station and Conveyance System of Jardim Sao Bento.
FOMENGE – SP was awarded the contract for these works.

In the Conquistinha system, the construction of the pumping station; the Jardim Maracana waste
water conveyance system that will drain into the Conquistinha WWTP basin; and the
Conquistinha waste water conveyance system, were all already completed. The conclusion of the
works for the Conquistinha WWTP remains to close the cycle. Complementing the improvements
to and increased capacity of the existing Recreio dos Bandeirantes WWTP, called Capim WWTP,
studies of the sludge treatment produced at WWTP were also conducted, for usage in agriculture,
which is being implemented.

In this way, the environmental impact of discharging raw sewage in water bodies, which is,
currently practiced, is compensated by ensuring cleaning of the urban water streams and the
Uberaba River, Conquistinha Stream and Rio Grande River, providing improvements to the
population.

Urban Drainage:

The World Bank financed the main study of this component, the feasibility study and project
alternatives. The municipality deployed two storm water reservation ponds – Reservatorio and
Piscinao Leopoldino de Oliveira – that work simultaneously and contribute as part of the flood
control system, and are supplemented by the duplication of drainage channels already installed on
the main roads in the city center.

At the Piscinao an upgraded urban park was created, which contributed greatly to the
valorization of real estate in the area, and will receive an alert and security systems to be
installed this year. These systems will be funded by the Municipality, with savings from project
resources, and where indicated by a Dam Safety Panel in compliance with Bank Safeguards.

The drainage channels are still in the final stage of implementation, with secured resources. In
this component the Municipality also invested in micro drainages in the high areas of the city,
causing the storm water to flow in the system to arrive at the canals. In addition, using
counterpart funds, streams were channelized, completing this macro drainage system,
significantly improving management of storm water and eliminating flooding in central areas of
the city.




                                               57
Water Supply services:

Collection and distribution

The World Bank financed, through a donation from the Japanese Bank, a study of alternatives for
water source conducted by Prof. Mario Cicarelli in 2005, which chose the Claro River as the best
alternative for the region as it presented the best technical, social, environmental, economic, and
maintenance conditions to respond to growing demand for water in the Municipality, along with
the Uberaba River.

With this, CODAU invested in a water treatability study with the aim of defining the water
quality of the Claro River and the best way to treat it, focusing on finding a solution with an
independent system for the Claro River and not a combination of the two systems. The water
transfer from the Claro River, in times of drought, was adopted as the best alternative in the
medium term and so an engineer design for the water intake s with the aim of the construction of
a direct pipeline from the Claro River to the Water Treatment Plant (WTP) was prepared, as well
as for the construction of a new WTP.

The funding for the implementation of the Claro River pipeline was ensured by the PAC - 2, with
resources from the Federal Government’s Budget (OGU- Orcamento Geral da Uniao). The
works described are the construction of 35.25 Km of pipeline from the Claro River to the WTP,
with a pipeline and pumping system with an 800 l/s capacity.

The water intake from the Claro River is a way to meet the growing demands of the city up to
500,000 inhabitants. Today, the city is experiencing a unique moment of economic and social
development, which will be enhanced with the finalization of large investments by the Federal
Government (Ammonia plant/Petrobras), the State Government (Gas Pipeline) and the Municipal
Government (Agua Viva Project). For a city above this size of population there is a proposal for a
large engineering design for using water from the Grande River.

Treatment
There are currently two Water Treatment Plants. The first station was constructed in 1940, with
an initial capacity of 300 l/s, and Station II was inaugurated in December of 1971 with an initial
capacity of 600 l/s.

Rehabilitation works are being carried out in the treatment processes of WTPs I and II and
construction of WTP III which will deal individually with the Claro River system. In addition,
there are investments in an environmentally friendly form for disposal of sludge produced in the
WTP processing (Works Report in Annex - I of this Report). All these will expand the treatment
capacity from 900 to 1,700 l/s, also with funds from the Federal Government.
Investments were made to reform the chemical testing center, and further adjustments will be
made using CODAU resources.

Distribution

The World Bank resources were invested in the replacement of 3 water mains that were already
compromised over their period of use and contributed to a high water loss rate, compromising the
system. These pipelines total 3.6 km and are located in the Boa Vista, Estados Unidos, and
Fabricio neighborhoods.

As of today the construction of a new pipeline between the WTP and R6 (reservoir 6), which will

                                                58
separate the distribution system in that area, is already on going. Networks were also replaced in
rural districts.

Control of Losses
The networks mentioned above are part of an antiquated system of distribution, often in
precarious condition and difficult to operationalize.

The World Bank funded a consultant to support the elaboration of a Municipal Loss Control Plan,
which was concluded in December 2012, which gives guidelines for actions and projects aiming
at the reduction of losses in the whole supply system. The actions indicated above are part of the
plan. Other actions in this Plan are already being implemented, such as the updating of the
network cadaster and others for which, beyond the results already obtained, more positive results
are expected.

For this reason, CODAU also implemented a broad program of replacing water meters that was
executed with its own investments and achieved replacement of about 99 % of water meters.
Today, the process is beginning again, replacing those meters which were exchanged at the
beginning of the program.

The automation of the operating system was the object of an assessment of the World Bank
consultants, who gave guidelines for the contracting of a company that is already starting to
process of reexamination of the system throughout CODAU for later implementation.

Storage
Currently Uberaba still faces water shortage crises of in various areas of the city. As catchment
and treatment works are not yet completed, storage and distribution of water widely throughout
the city is still necessary. A large urban expansion is being identified in the southeast and
southwest sectors of Uberaba, which forces the widening of these investments to ensure the
integrity of the public water supply in the city; because of this, the Municipality obtained
resources for three additional reservoir centers with an independent pipeline system. The R12
will be built on the confluence of BR 050 and BR 262 towards southwest, and the R13 is to be
built on the corner of Bandeirantes Avenue and Ponta Grossa Street, southeast region. These two
will be metallic reservoirs, partially buried, with a storage capacity of 5,500 cubic meters and also
an elevated reservoir for 500 cubic meters, with their mains independent of WTP. A R14 will also
be constructed next to R4—a metallic reservoir, with a capacity of 5,500 cubic meters, with
counterpart resources.

Environment and Sustainability
All these works and actions will undoubtedly improve the environmental and social indicators of
the Municipality of Uberaba; however, they also necessitate investments in the sectors that will
ensure the sustainability of the implemented projects.

First, the Municipality highlights the larger environmental education program developed by
CODAU. Environmental education is a tool capable of raising awareness and educating the
population about the importance of preserving natural resources. As a way to contribute to the
process of superseding environmental degradation, which is ever increasing, these works involve
an approach capable of integrating educational practices with environmental proposals, fostering
greater comprehension of the importance of the role of mankind regarding nature.

The environmental practices proposed in this program permit the enhancement of already existing
positive aspects in the Municipality of Uberaba relating to sustainable attitudes, and seek to

                                                 59
sensitize the population regarding the importance of possessing, in our city, spaces which
preserve the environment with its natural characteristics that contribute to the quality of life of the
population. Moreover, such practices allow changes to habits and attitudes essential to the
parsimonious use of existing resources.

The team for Clarinha, the CODAU mascot, has produced many events and actions aimed at
changing habits and raising awareness in children, through educational campaigns, videos, tours,
books, events such as a water week, and others. The cost of this program is fully financed by
CODAU.

Several other activities related of environmental education are being developed by Municipality,
which play an important role in the sustainability of the works, such as in solid waste sorting for
example, which plays a key role in the Municipal drainage system, reducing the incidence of
floods, and others that we could emphasize, being important baselines in this project.

The Parque da Cidade project, financed by IBRD in 2009, corresponds to the environmental
component of the Agua Viva Project and also integrates the structural designs of the Uberaba
Technology Park that was installed in Alameda das Barrigudas and houses the Center for
Environmental Education of the Agua Viva Project, CETA, designed to accommodate public
activities, as well as activities by the non-governmental and the private sector, to promote
environmental education with a local and regional focus.

CETA, the Center for Environmental Technological Education, has an area with classrooms; a
library; a geo processing center; and laboratories for soil, water, and environment intended for
education, human and professional capacity-building, and lending of information and services. It
was conceived as a space for events that can be held in Central Gallery or Auditorium.

The Green Room was installed in partnership with the Municipal Secretariat of Education and
Culture, and offers workshops and environmental education activities for students of schools of
the Municipal Education System and the Federal University students who use the space;

The Park is open to visits from the Municipal Schools Education system, and offers
environmental activities, guided visits scheduled in advance and didactic materials for students;

The use of the space for environmental events such as seminars, courses, and project
culminations: the space houses the meetings of the Araguari Basin Committee, a Hidroex
capacity-building course, capacity-building for CODAU staff, open environmental events and
houses the headquarters of the Lower Rio Grande Basin GD- 8 Committee.

The Park was funded by the World Bank, and the operation and maintenance activities are
supported by CODAU.

Several studies were also conducted through the World Bank to propose activities and
actions that will contribute to the recovery and maintenance of the Uberaba River environmental
protection area, an area which comprises, from the river source to water intake, an extent of 528
km2 and a vast natural diversity of the Brazilian cerrado. These actions are intended to ensure the
quality, and improve the quantity, of water in the Uberaba River in the coming years.

An Action Management Plan for the Uberaba Environmentally Protected Area (APA) was
prepared using geo-processing which defined actions for 2 years of planning. A definitive plan
is drafted, which is already in the final stage to be bid by CODAU. The Terms of Reference for

                                                  60
this new Management Plan was also funded by the Bank.

The Bank financed, through CETA, the installation of a Municipal Georeferencing Center, in
agreement with the Public’s Hearing Office and Universities, to be the center of reference and
storage of data from the Uberaba APA region - funded by CODAU, through a legal agreement
(TAC) with the Public’s Hearing Office. The center is receiving more investments and is
expected at the beginning of the second semester to create the first class in Geoprocessing for the
Universities, in capacity-building and post-graduate courses. This center is being structured to
manage the environment of the region.

Another great contribution by the Bank was the monitoring of the necessary environmental
indicators for quality management of the Project. Because of this, CODAU structured and staffed
a team, and the Bank financed equipment to control water quantity of the water sources.

Now there is periodic monitoring of water quantity and quality for the Uberaba, Conquistinha,
and Claro rivers by CODAU, which was, initially, an specific training carried out through an
agreement with the Federal University of Uberaba (UFU),.

CODAU is executing some actions for recovery of degraded areas, still randomly, however they
will be restructured based on the results of the georeferecing diagnostic and of the Management
Plan for the Uberaba APA.

The CODAU also funded the creation of an Environmental Civil Police, which will work in
partnership with CODAU and the Public’s Hearing Office in enforcement of actions in the
Uberaba APA.

Another important point is the capacity building in the Secretary of Environment, which assumed
responsibility for municipal environmental licensing, providing independence and flexibility to
municipal processes. The Secretary has the capacity to evaluate Processes of Classes I to IV, with
an average of 94 requests per month, and, in more complex areas, with the support of the State
and of local Universities.

To conclude, the Municipal Water and Sanitation Plan will be financed with funds from the PAC-
2 and will provide guidelines for actions and investments in environmental sanitation in the city
for the coming years. The Plan is in final stages of completion.

Thus the Municipality shows its effort in meeting the initial goals set by the Project and goes still
further in its commitment to ensure for Uberaba an adequate structure to receive economic
development while maintaining the quality of life of the population.

With regard to the completion of the works, the Municipality commits to concluding them by the
end of 2015. Regarding monitoring, all means of monitoring the Project are already in place and
functioning to be monitored periodically.

The Municipality of Uberaba would like to emphasize our gratitude to the World Bank for their
support during the years of the project, for the partnerships made, for the learning and for the long
legacy left us.

However, our request for an extension remains, which could have made this one of the greatest
projects that the Bank financed in Brazil due to the diversity of actions, the commitment of the
borrower, the efforts of Bank and Municipal staff and the greatness of our work, with the

                                                 61
addition, we could have concluded all the works, improved our indicators and added much to
what was reached.

You have our thanks and our aspiration for new projects together with this institution.




                                                62
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(Not applicable)




                                    63
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Legal documents:
   Loan Agreement- 7437-BR (May 2008)
   Amendment Letter (August 2012)

Preparation documents:
   Project Appraisal Document (Feb. 2007)
   Environmental Assessment (May 2005)
   Evaluation of Hydrology of Minimum Flows of the Uberaba River Basin and the Conquistinha Stream
    Basin (2005)
   Water Quality Studies and the Impact of Treated Wastewater on the Uberaba and Conquistinha rivers
    (2005)
   Economic and Financial Evaluation (Volumes I-II) (2005)
   Study of Frequency, Intensity and Duration of Heavy Rains in Uberaba (2005)

Supervision documents:
   Restructuring Paper (June 2012)
   Implementation Status Report 1 – June 05, 2007
   Implementation Status Report 2 – December 18, 2007
   Implementation Status Report 3 – April 15, 2008
   Implementation Status Report 4 – October 30, 2008
   Implementation Status Report 5 – May 04, 2009
   Implementation Status Report 6 – May 28, 2099
   Implementation Status Report 7 – November 16, 2009
   Implementation Status Report 8 – May 21, 2010
   Implementation Status Report 9 – February 13, 2011
   Implementation Status Report 10 – July 17, 2011
   Implementation Status Report 11 – April 04, 2012
   Implementation Status Report 12 – November 12, 2012
   Implementation Status Report 13 – July 29, 2013
   Aide Memoire (May 2007)
   Aide Memoire (April 2009)
   Aide Memoire (August 2009)
   Aide Memoire Mid Term Review Mission (March 2010)
   Aide Memoire (October 2010)
   Aide Memoire (May 2011)
   Aide Memoire (November 2011)
   Aide Memoire (May 2012)
   Aide Memoire (November 2012)
   Notes from mission (March 2013)
   Notes from mission (June 2013)
   Aide Memoire (January 2014)
   Resettlement Action Plan (2010, updated in 2012))
   Resettlement Framework (2010, updated in 2012)
   Relatório Sobre Resultados do Workshop (Lições Aprendidas) (Junho 2013)
   Update on land expropriation status, January 2014.

Documents from the Borrower:

                                                 64
   Progress reports 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011.
   Satisfaction survey results from November and December, 2013; January 2014
   Summary table of monthly rain measures from 2001-2011
   Civil Defense Reports 2008-2013; 2011; 2012-2013;
   Pictures and reports of rain events of December, 2013 and January, 2014;
   Final Project costs and schedule of payment;
   Copies of Agreements signed by the Municipality with Universities (IFTM, UFU, UFTM and
    UNIUBE) and Research Institute (IADES);
   Copy of the Agreements signed by CODAU and the Public Hearings Office;
   Environmental Action Plan for the Uberaba APA and Terms of Reference for the Management Plan;
   Reports on river water quality levels, WWTP efficiency and volume treated; and WWTP O&M costs;
   Reports on activities, costs and results of the Environmental Education Center;
   Report on the status of project works, January 2014;
   Reports on potable water production and network;
   Informative reports 1 to 4 prepared by the PIU unit;
   Reports on the evolution of property values;
   Report on goods acquired by the project;
   Report on Environmental Secretary institutional structure;
   Emails with information regarding: (i) the Claro River water transfer project; (ii) the automation of the
    water supply network; and (iii) licensing issuance;




                                                     65
Annex 10. Calculation of Outcome Rating for Formally Revised Project (as per
ICR Guidelines, Appendix B)

                                      Against              Against        Overall          Comments
                                   Original PDOs           Revised
                                                            PDOs
        1.      Rating                                                                   PDO has not
                                    Moderately           Moderately           -          been changed
                                    Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory                       during
                                                                                         restructuring.
                                                                                          Unforeseen
                                                                                           financial
                                                                                        constraints have
                                                                                           impacted
                                                                                         project’s final
                                                                                            results.
        2.      Rating Value25
                                         4                    3               _
        3.      Weight (%                                                               This reflects
                disbursed            $16.37m                $0m           $16.03M       disbursement
                before/after PDO      100%                  0%             100%         cutoff as of July
                change                                                                  6, 2012. The
                                                                                        project spent
                                                                                        resources from
                                                                                        the designated
                                                                                        account in the
                                                                                        period from July,
                                                                                        2012 until July,
                                                                                        2013. No new
                                                                                        disbursement was
                                                                                        carried out.
                                                                                        Unused amount
                                                                                        was returned to
                                                                                        the Bank account.
        4.      Weighted value           4                    0               4
                (2X3)
        5.      Final Value              -                    -          Moderately     The restructuring
                (rounded)                                                Satisfactory   has not impacted
                                                                                        project results.




25
     HS=6; S=5; MS=4; MU=3; U=2; HU=1


                                                   66
Annex 11. Original Components (as approved)

1. The Project comprised three components, as described below.

2. Component One: Environmental Sanitation (US$ 24.83 million total Project cost 26 ;
   US$ 13.56 million World Bank financing) was to focus on an integrated package of physical
   investments related to urban environmental sanitation.         With this component, the
   Municipality would provide treatment to 100 percent of collected wastewater, providing
   environmental and health benefits to the municipal population and populations downstream
   of the Uberaba River. In addition, the city’s severe flood problems would be corrected
   through the implementation of a macro drainage program that would reduce flooding to a 25-
   year occurrence from the current 2-year rate. This component would also increase the
   efficiency and quality of water supply service through a series of investments in the water
   supply and distribution networks. This component included three subcomponents, as follows:

     A. Waste Water Collection and Treatment: This sub-component included construction of
     interceptors in the central city to separate wastewater from rainwater, interceptor sewers for
     the Uberaba and Conquistinha systems, the wastewater treatment plants of Uberaba
     (attending about 75 percent of Uberaba’s urban population) and Conquistinha (attending the
     rest of the population), as well as the engineering projects and land acquisition costs for these
     works.

     B. Urban Drainage: This sub-component included macro drainage investments to reduce the
     incidence of flooding in the city center. The system included the already constructed
     Leopoldino retention basin, and the reinforcement of the actual system of canals and galleries,
     the urbanization of the area around Leopoldino and a system of flood control in the Lajes
     basin.

     C. Water Supply: This sub-component included making permanent the seasonal transfer of
     water from the river Claro to the Uberaba River in order to regularize the flow of the Uberaba
     River and secure the system’s main water supply. It also included a program to reduce water
     losses, including modernization of commercial operations program along the lines of PMSS,
     improvements and automation in the operations of the supply system and water treatment
     plant. The proposed improvements related to the water treatment plant aimed at assuring the
     quality of treated water, operational costs reduction and implantation of a residue treatment
     unit, eliminating the practice of discharging into the city’s rainwater drainage network
     without any control. And the acquisition of land where needed for works.

3. Component Two: Environmental and Cultural Preservation and Recovery (USD 0.77
   million total Project cost; USD 0.72million World Bank financing). This component include
   three actions aimed at improving the quality of life by providing new recreational
   opportunities, preserving natural resources, in particular the city’s main drinking water source
   and expanding the research and tourist opportunities associated with the municipality’s rich


26
  Complementary activities originally proposed were not included in the project’s PAD costs, which
included the implementation of wastewater works (Conquistinha and Uberaba wastewater conveyance
systems and Treatment Plants) and the Leopoldino Retention Pool – for a total estimated original cost of
USD13.27 million as counterpart financed activities.



                                                    67
     fossil deposits and the research center that supports them. The component included three
     sub-components, as follows:

     A. Environmental Recovery (APA): This sub-component aimed to provide the municipal
     government with the tools to better manage the area’s natural resources in a more sustainable
     manner, in particular its water resources. This sub-component supported a group of
     activities aimed at improving collection of information regarding occupation and uses of the
     resources within the APA with the specific aim of better managing and protecting water
     resources. Actions included, inter alia: development and implantation of an environmental
     management plan of the APA, development of a system of water resources
     management/monitoring, including environmental mapping, as well as environmental
     recovery actions that included recovery of river banks and development of a risk reduction
     plan.

     B. The Parque da Cidade: This sub-component developed an at least 25 acre linear park to
     serve as an environmental enhancement of land acquired for the installation of part of the
     interceptor sewage network. It included re-forestation actions as well as landscape
     improvements and public facilities such as a bike/waling path, installation of equipment to
     create an urban park for a population with few such opportunities.

     C. Fossil Vivo: Areas within the administrative boundaries of the Municipality of Uberaba
     include some of the world’s richest deposits of fossil between 65-80 million years old. It is a
     rich cultural asset of the municipality and one that warrants investment and protection. This
     sub-component supported the Llewellyn Ivor Price Paleontology Research Center by
     supporting the development of marketing, communications and business plan aimed at
     leveraging resources for: restructuring the rescue and salvage capacity; reforming and
     expanding the dinosaur museum; reforming the geo-paleontology research labs; reforming
     the Center for Tourism, Learning and Educational Extension; improve the grounds around the
     center; purchase of equipment for the thematic children’s park; and improvement of the
     Paleontology Garden27.

4. Component Three: Planning and Management (US$ 2.95million total Project cost totally
   financed by the World Bank). This component included actions aimed at improving the
   capacity of municipal government entities. These activities supported actions that were
   directly related to the Project’s core components, and were therefore focused on the
   environment, planning and project management. It included efforts to increase personnel
   qualification in several thematic areas of the Project’s interest and activities for reinforcing
   actions within environmental sanitation, preservation and recovery areas (by equipping the
   Environmental Guard and the Environmental Municipal Secretariat and developing technical
   and operational procedures manuals). It included four sub-components, as follows:

     A. Sanitation and Environmental Preservation:           The municipality had created an
     Environmental Secretariat. This sub-component was to support the strengthening of the
     Environmental Secretariat including, inter alia, development of the agency’s strategic plan.


27
  Annex 7.4 of the PAD (page 102) included a note that “Not all of these actions will be financed under the
Project. The aim is (sic) use the business plan to leverage additional resources from other potential sources,
such as foundations, public agencies and private-sector investors.” It provided no specification as to which
activities would be financed.


                                                     68
B. Environmental Education and Social Communication: This sub-component supported a
public education campaign aimed at creating an environmental culture in the municipality,
with particular emphasis on water resources. The social communication activities was used
to make people aware of the program, and in particular to serve as a public awareness
campaign regarding the investments.

C. Institutional Strengthening: This sub-component was aimed at providing technical
training for personnel in key areas, such as the water company (CODAU), the Planning
Secretariat and the Environmental Secretariat. It provided capacity building in planning and
management, aimed at the agencies most involved with the Project.

D. Project Management: This sub-component covered the cost of a third party, specialized
management firm to assist the municipality in the management and execution of the Project’s
relatively large, multi-sector investment program. The services of the management
consulting firm would be structured in a way so as to transfer capacity to the Project
Management Unit. It also include works supervision.




                                          69
