Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11604
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2505-IN)
JANUARY 29, 1993
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Technical Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Rupees (Re.)
RB. 1.00        =   Paise 100
Us. 1.00        =   Rs. 28.01
RB. 1,000,000  =   US$ 35,702
(as of June 1992)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BPCL    Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.
C2/C3   Ethane/Propane
EG      Ethylene Glycol
EIL     Engineers India Ltd.
EO      Ethylene Oxide
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FCC     Fluidized Catalytic Cracking
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
GOI     Government of India
HAZOP   Hazards and Operability
HDPE    High Density Polyethylene
IPCL    Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.
ICG     Internal Cash Generation
LDP     Low Density Polyethylene
LLDPE   Linear Low Density Polyethylene
LPG     Liquified Petroleum Gas
MGCC    Maharashtra Gas Cracker
MPCB    Maharashtra Pollution Control Board
OGL     Open General License
ONGC    Oil and Natural Gas Commission
OSBL    Off Site Battery Limit
PCR     Project Completion Report
PP      Polypropylene
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 29, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:          Project Completion Report on India
Maharashtra Petrochemical Proiect (Loan 2505-IN)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on India - Maharashtra
Petrochemical Project (Loan 2505-IN)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
The PCR is of very good quality. It concludes that the original project objective of constructing
a technologically modern, economic-sized plant capable of producing olefins and other derivatives has been
achieved and that adequate environmental standards have been ensured. The project was completed well
below the estimated cost. However, cumbersome clearance procedures for project investments and an
explosion in the feedstock receiving section in Novemnber 1990 delayed commissioning of the plant and
prevented the company from taking advantage of better international market prices for derivatives.
Insurance coverage did not provide for adequate compensation for the direct cost of the accident and the
loss of income and, given lower-than-projected world market prices, the economic rate of return has been
re-estimated at 1 1 percent compared to the appraisal estimate of 18 percent.
Although the project had satisfactory overall results and its sustainability is likely, further progress
is required in creating a more competitive environment for the petrochemical industry in India. All in all,
Bank as well as Borrower performance was good, although the decision to provide Bank finance for
monopoly polymer imports under the project may have contributed to excessive trade protection for the
public enterprise in charge of project execution.
The contribution received from IPCL substantially agrees with the Bank's PCR and highlights the
benefits of Japanese cofinancing for the project. An audit of this project may be carried out, given its size,
complexity and the safety issues raised.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distributioni and rn,iv he v< u,d by rec:ipicnts only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank amuih w,-i lwn.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2505-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
PREFACE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
EVALUATION SUMMARY   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . .                       1
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    1
Background   .1..  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    2
Project Objectives    ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
Project Description   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
Project Design and Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    3
Project Implementatior    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   3
Loan Effectiveness and Project Schedule   . . . . . . . . .                    3
Implementation Schedule   ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Explosion at the OSBL facilities of the Complex   . . . . .                    5
Procurement   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    7
Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    7
Loan Allocation   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Project Results    ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Project Objectives and Physical Results   . . . . . . . . .                    7
Environmental Aspects   ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
Economic and Financial Rates of Return    ...  .               .  .  .  .    .  8
Financial Performance   .9..  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
Impact of Project   .9..  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
Project Sustainab,lity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Bank Performance   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Borrower Performance   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Project Relationship   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Consulting Services    ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Project Documentation and Data .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  12
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .    . . . . . . .                    14
Confirmation of Information in Part III  .    . . . . . . . . .                  14
Comments on Analysis in Part I .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  14
Bank's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   14
Borrower's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   14
Project Relationship   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Any Other Comments   .....................                                       14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              15
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Project Timetable   ...  .       .  .  .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
Loan Disbursements  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  16
Project Implementation  ...  .        .  .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  16
Project Costs and Financing   ...  .         .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .    .    17
Project CostB  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Project Financing  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  18
Bank Financing   ...  .  .      .  .  .  .   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  18
Project Results    . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Direct Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Ecor.omic Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
Financial Impact    ...  .      .  .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
Assumptions Used in ERR and FRR Sensitivity Analysis    . .    20
Studies   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  21
Status of Covenants   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    22
Missions               .............. . 23
ANNEXES
Projected Income Statement - SAR Estimate   . . . . . . . . .    24
Projected Balance Sheet - SAR Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Projected Funds Cash Flow Statement - SAR Estimate  . . . . .    26
Projected Income Statement - Present Estimate   . . . . . . .    27
Projected Balance Sheet - Present Estimate  . . . . . . . . .    28
Projected Funds Cash Flow Statement - Present Estimate  . . .    29



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2505-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Maharashtra
Petrochemical Project in India, for which Loan 2505-IN in the amount of US$300
million was approved on March 19, 1985. The loan was closed on September 30,
1991, one year behind schedule. The loan was fully disbursed before the closing
date, and the last disbursement was on September 13, 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry, Trade and Finance Division
of the Asia Technical Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III),
and Indian Petrochemicals Limited (IPCL) the project beneficiary (Part II ). A
copy of the PCR has been sent to the project co-financier, EXIM Bank of Japan,
for its comment.
Preparation of the PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission in November 1991. This was followed by a project completion mission to
India in May 1992. The PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and
Project Agreements, the supervision reports, the project files in the Bank, and
discussions held with the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Industries, Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals, and during
the missions in November 1991 and May 1992.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2505-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The main objective of the project was to improve the competitiveness
and productivity of India' s basic petrochemical sector through the introduction
of modern, cleaner technologies, the adoption of economies of scale, and the use
of gas (the most economical feedstock) for the manufacture of olefins and
derivatives.   The project also sought to stimulate the demand for olefin
derivatives in India, through the development of products that could alleviate
the pressures over the natural resource base of the country (para. 3.1).
Implementation Experience
2.        There were some delays in project implementation requiring extension
of the loan's closing date by one year.  The main reasons for the project's
slippage included:   (i) inclement weather;  (ii) delays  in the  supply of
ethane/propane fractions produced at Uran; (iii) an explosion and fire in a
section of the off-sites battery limits (OSBL) of the complex in November 1990;
and (iv) delays in completion of the Linear Low Density Polyethylene (LLDPE/HDPE)
plant which requires about half of the ethylene boiler plate capacity (para.
5.2). The project began commercial production at the end of July 1991.
3.        Completion of the Uran gas separation facilities was postponed due to
delays in securing an environmental clearance by Oil and Natural Gas Commission
(ONGC) and implementation problems encountered by the contractor.   However,
these delays were partly offset by delays in the completion of the pipeline from
Uran to Nagothane and the cryogenic storage tanks at Nagothane (para. 5.3).
4.        During the commissioning activities in November 1990, the gas chilling
and storage section of the projects' OSBL suffered extensive damage, explosion
and fire which also caused 32 deaths.  A GOI appointed technical committee
investigated the incident and presented its report to the GOI which is still
reviewing it. The study has not yet been made available to the Bank. However,
the Committee is reported to have concluded that material failure was the most
likely cause of the accident. In the meantime, IPCL has conducted a detailed
design and safety audit, and rebuilt the plant. The estimated cost of repairs
was about US$19.2 million; production loss was around US$86 million (paras. 5.7-
5.8).



- iv -
5.        The LLDPE/HDPE plant was scheduled for completion in February 1990,
but has not been commissioned yet.  Possible delays were recognized early in
contract implementation, but due to a lack of cooperation by the contractor, no
remedial actions were taken for a timely completion.   The   contractor's
constraints were due to (i) cost increases during implementation not covered in
the initial quotation, and (ii) changes suggested during implementation by the
process licensor based on more recent developments and experience (para. 5.11).
Project Results
6.         Despite the substantial delays in project completion,  and lower
product prices,  the project remains economically viable.   The project was
completed well within estimated costs, but has fallen short of fully achieving
its physical targets as planned at the time of appraisal. The Financial Rate of
Return (FRR) is, however, an attractive 18.8% due to the high domestic prices
maintained through tariff protection. If, as a result of GOI's policy reforms,
the tariffs are removed over time, the FRR could decline closer to the Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) or may even be slightly lower given the higher financial
capital costs of the project (paras. 6.1-6.7).
Environmental AsDects
7.        The project has successfully met all requirements for environmental
protection.  It was designed with appropriate discharge standards and modern
technologies for waste minimization and abatement. IPCL, which itself has been
awarded numerous environmental (and safety) recognitions, commissioned and
implemented detailed environmental impact studies. It also funded an ambitious
program for the reforestation of extensive areas surrounding the Nagothane site,
which is well under implementation (para. 6.3).
Project Sustainability
8.        The Indian domestic market for petrochemicals is expected to exceed
supplies for the foreseeable future, and the Asia regional market is expected to
continue being the world's largest net importer of petrochemical products.
However, major additions to installed capacity are being developed in India, as
well as in the Asia region, using state-of-the art technologies. The advantages
derived from the use of gas feedstocks and the employment of large economies of
scale are expected to enable IPCL to remain competitive in an increasingly
crowded regional market. Feedstock supplies are not expected to be a limiting
factor in the foreseeable future.  Prices will continue to fluctuate in the
future but are not expected to fall below the long run marginal costs (para.
7. 1). Under these conditions the Nagothane complex is expected to remain viable.
The project's ERR, calculated under very conservative assumptions, is 11.4%.
Moreover, the complex has been designed to minimize its long-term environmental
impact and is not expected to have an adverse impact on the Nagothane area.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.        The project was a complex undertaking that engaged the best of the
technical and management expertise at IPCL. Its successful completion places the
company in a pre-eminent position in the Indian chemical industry and will
- ~~ - - -   -   - - - - -



contribute to significant improvements in the competitiveness and productivity
of the petrochemical sector.  The project was well-conceived and thoroughly
designed with the assistance of leading licensors and contractors. However, it
faced difficulties during its implementation (paras. 5.2-5.14) and provides the
following valuable lessons to the beneficiary, the borrower, and the Bank:
(a) foremost, coordination between the project entity and other agencies
of the GOI Ministry of Environment and Forest, (ONGC), must be faulted
for serious delays in permits and completion of infrastructure.
Closer coordination for environmental permits and clearances is
required in projects of this nature especially since the environmental
regulations are likely to become more stringent in the foreseeable
future;
(b) failure to prevent and anticipate extensive litigation for the rights
of way, required by the ONGC, Bharat refinery and IPCL pipelines,
resulted in the commitment of large financial resources from these
entities. Although the delays did not directly affect the project,
they did distract the top management of IPCL at a time when the
project was nearing critical testing and precommissioning (para. 5.4);
(c) insufficient and perhaps inadequate insurance coverage resulted in
financial losses for IPCL from equipment damaged during the explosion.
The insurance policy should have been subjected to close scrutiny
during project preparation both by IPCL and the Bank (para. 5.8);
(d) in terms of the LLDPE-HDPE plant, IPCL has expressed its complete
dissatisfaction with the performance of the contractor and has pointed
out to the Bank that at the time of the bid evaluation, it suggested
award of the contract to the second lowest evaluated bidder (L2); in
retrospect, doubts about the performance of lowest evaluated bidder
(L1) should have been pointed out at the time of prequalification of
bidders (para. 5.14).
10.       Caveat.  It is difficult to draw any lessons from the November 1990
explosion at the OSBL facilities, which occurred during project implementation.
Until the GOI completes its review of the Mashelkar Committee report, it will not
be released and the Bank will not have the benefit of the Committee's findings
and recommendations. It is expected that the report would be released before the
end of 1992. Once received, the Mashelkar report will be reviewed by staff, and
an appropriate addendum to this PCR will be issued.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2505-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Name:          Maharashtra Petrochemical Project
Loan Number:  2505-IN
RVP Unit:      South Asia Region
Country:       India
Sector:        Industry
2.        Background
2.1       The petrochemical  industry is at the core of the manufacturing
industry in developed nations and has repeatedly been pointed out as a key
element of industrial strategies and the ability to export consumer goods.
Worldwide, the Asia region is experiencing the fastest modernization and
evolution of the industry and is the largest net importer of petrochemicals and
derivatives. India has a large and growing domestic market for petrochemicals
and has experienced significant increases in polyolefins imports.  Domestic
manufacture of ethylene and derivatives in India is justified by the availability
of large reserves of natural gas liquids on the west coast and a domestic market
of a size that permits setting up large production facilities. A recent World
Bank analysis (1990) has pointed out that domestic manufacture of ethylene and
derivatives in India in economically justified, provided that competitively
priced feedstock is made available and economies of scale are achieved.  The
Maharashtra project was conceived to make use of the natural gas liquids
available at Uran for the manufacture of ethylene using modern technologies of
competitive size.
2.2       The Government of India (GOI) has made substantial progress over the
last five years in reforming the sectoral policy environment. Involvement in the
project has enabled the Bank to maintain a useful dialogue with GOI on developing
and implementing appropriate policy reforms.  The complex system of capacity
licensing, which in the past constrained modernization and adoption of economic
size plants, has been mostly eliminated.   Competition is being encouraged
throughout the sector. The rules governing foreign direct investment have been
substantially liberalized, permitting joint ventures with foreign ownership. The
prices of major primary feedstocks (C2/C3, benzene and naphtha) are roughly in
line with their economic opportunity costs to India. Efforts are currently under
way to establish a rational long-term feedstock pricing policy for the sector.
Feedstock price adjustments in line with the proposed policy, necessitated by
recent exchange rate changes, are expected to be implemented in the next few
months.   The trade regime for imports of major petrochemicals  has been



- 2 -
liberalized considerably, and most of the important petrochemicals are now in the
Open General License (OGL) category. These measures are in line with present
favorable trends for economic policy reforms in India, which aim to improve
allocative and operational efficiency within the sector and facilitate outward
orientation of the Indian economy.
2.3       Though substantially lower than in the 1980 s, current protective
tariffs (basic and auxiliary) are still high by international standards.
Together with the prevailing high countervailing duties and excise taxes levied
on petrochemical products, the high protective tariffs have resulted in high
domestic basic  raw material prices.   This in turn has resulted  in high
manufactured product costs.   To promote domestic market demand growth and
facilitate allocative and operational efficiency within the sector, additional
reductions in tariffs are required. Such reductions are particularly important
in view of the large investments envisioned in India for implementation in the
next five years or so (1992 - 1997), which if implemented will double ethylene
capacity in India to one million tons by 1996.
2.4       In early 1992 GOI disinvested about 20% of IPCL's paid up equity to
bidders from state-owned financial institutions and mutual funds. These shares
are expected to be ultimately sold to the public. IPCL is considering options
for raising capital from nongovernment sources to finance its large investment
programs, as a result of which 0ol1s shareholding will drop. GOI has not yet
taken a decision as to whether its shareholding will drop below 51%, in which
case IPCL would cease to be a government company.
3.        Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1       Proiect Obiectives:  The main objective of the project was to improve
the competitiveness and productivity of India's basic petrochemical sector
through: (i) the introduction of modern, cleaner technologies; (ii) the adoption
of economies of scale; and (iii) utilizing natural gas (the most economical
feedstock) for the manufacture of olefins and derivatives.  The project also
sought to stimulate the demand for olefin derivatives through the development of
products that could alleviate pressures on the natural resource base of the
country (e.g. through the introduction of synthetic fibers and films).
3.2       Proiect Description:  The Project included (i) setting up a large
petrochemical complex at Nagothane, near Bombay-based on C2/C3 fractions
recovered from Bombay High gas at Uran, and (ii) importing during construction,
polymers of the type and quality grade to be manufactured by the facility to
develop the market and processing capacity for plastic products in India. The
Nagothane complex includes a cracker for the production of ethylene and
propylene; a butadiene stream to be sold as fuel feedstock; and facilities for
recovery of 37,000 tpy of propylene from the Fluidized catalytic cracking (FCC)
gases from the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.'s (BPCL) refinery in Trombay.
The project was planned for an initial capacity of 300,000 tpy of ethylene (which
is being expanded to 400,000 tpy under the second Bank-financed project, Loan
3259-IN), 63,000 tpy of propylene and 2,200 tpy of acetylene. The project sought
the creation of a plant to produce marketable products, Low Density Polyethylene
(LDPE) -(80,000 tpy), Linear Low Density Polyethylene (LLDPE)/High Density
Polyethylene (HDPE) -(135,000 tpy), and Polypropylene (PP) - (60,000 tpy) which



are polyolefin plastics to be sold to the conversion industry; and Ethylene
Glycol (EG) - (50,000 tpy)/ Ethylene Oxide (EO) - (5,000 tpy), which are
intermediates for synthetic fiber and synthetic detergent industries.   Some
surplus ethylene was expected to be marketed.
3.3       Moreover, the project included:  (i) acquisition and installation of
associated utilities; (ii) construction of offsite and other facilities; (iii)
installation of infrastructure; and (iv) a wire and cable compounding plant of
12,500 tpy capacity, based on LDPE as feedstock. This plant would substantially
add to product value, thereby improving the profitability of the project. The
LLDPE/HDPE plant in Nagothane (swing plant process) has the capability to produce
the special grade polymers required for wire and cable compounding.
4.        Proiect Design and Organization
4.1       The project was conceived and designed by IPCL with the assistance of
a public sector consulting group, Engineers India Limited (EIL). It sought to
maximize the return on the higher molecular weight (C2/C3) hydrocarbons available
at the Bombay High gas fields and to meet the expected demand for petrochemical
feedstocks and derivatives from the domestic industry. The project was prepared
by a group constituted by the GOI, with IPCL and EIL providing the major inputs;
the scope was appropriate.
4.2       The project introduced for the first time in India more efficient and
environmentally cleaner technologies for the manufacture of PP (slurry vertical
reactor) and HDPE/LLDPE.   The PP technology was introduced in a remarkable
fashion with no delays and a quick start-up well ahead of schedule. However, the
HDPE/LLDPE unit ran into problems first caused by the relative inexperience of
the turn-key contractor, but also as a result of the novelty of the process and
modifications required by difficulties encountered in the start up of a similar
unit in China. Except for the HDPE/LLDPE plant - implemented on turnkey basis,
other process plants have been engineered to international standards and EIL
managed their construction efficiently.
5.        Proiect Implementation
5.1       Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Schedule:  Although the project was
identified in the third quarter of 1980, the appraisal took place only in the
third quarter of 1982, and the Bank's Board of Directors approved the loan in
March 1985. The long gestation period was due to delays in: (i) ONGC obtaining
certain environmental clearances; (ii) GOI evaluation and approval of project
investment (April 1984); and (iii) selection and approval of selected
technologies except LLDPE (January 1985). All these decisions were important for
establishing the implementation schedule.  The loan processing schedule was,
therefore, in line with the progress of project preparation and did not result
in project delays.
5.2       implementation Schedule:  The original project completion date was
December 1989. The other project components were scheduled for completion to
match completion of the cracker, except for utilities, which were to be completed



- 4 -
three to six months earlier.  However, most of the project components were
mechanically completed about one year behind schedule (para. 4 of Part III). The
main reasons for the delays were: (i) inclement weather during the final stages
of physical completion in the summer of 1989; (ii) delays in the supply of
feedstock ethane/propane fractions produced at Uran; (iii) an explosion and fire
in the OSBL of the complex on November 5, 1990, that caused considerable damage
and 33 deaths; and (iv) a lack of understanding between the LLDPE/HDPE plant
turnkey contractor and IPCL, resulting in delays in completion of the plant,
which requires about half of the ethylene boiler plate capacity.
5.3       In July 1989 the Nagothane facilities were about to be completed when
unusual rains and floods caused total work stoppage for about two months.
Precommissioning of the cracker could only be completed in February 1990.
However, IPCL could not proceed with further commissioning due to delays in
completion of the Uran gas separation facilities, the pipelines between Uran and
Nagothane, and cryogenic storage tanks at Nagothane. Completion of the Uran gas
separation facilities, implemented by ONGC on a turnkey basis, was postponed due
to delays in securing an environmental clearance by ONOC and implementation
problems encountered by the contractor. The environmental clearance was obtained
after ONGC met the discharge and other environmental conditions imposed by the
Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB).  The Uran facilities, therefore,
become operational by September 1990. These delays were partly offset by delays
in the completion of the pipeline from Uran to Nagothane (March 1990) and the
cryogenic storage tanks at Nagothane (February 1990) -- both the responsibility
of IPCL.
5.4       The difficulties at Uran and the delays in completion of the pipeline
were beyond the control of the project implementation authorities.  As the ONGC
and Bharat refinery handed over the pipeline project to IPCL after one and a half
year delay.   IPCL,  also experienced  substantial delays by the extensive
litigation that evolved from securing the right of way for the pipeline. In
fact, IPCL's direct involvement in the process, although not originally under its
responsibility, was instrumental in speeding up the completion of the C3 pipeline
from the Bharat refinery.
5.5       The cryogenic tanks and the pipeline were completed in February and
March 1990, respectively.   In April 1990 at IPCL's request, GOI allocated
liquified petroleum gas (LPG) as a substitute feedstock, to enable IPCL to
proceed with the commissioning. However, problems with pumps at Uran and the
Nagothane waste heat boiler feed pump delayed commissioning to July 1990,
Ethylene was finally produced on July 17, 1990 using LPG as feedstock. Due to
domestic shortages, however, LPG allocation was discontinued shortly thereafter.
5.6       The cracker was commissioned by end October 1990, and ethylene based
on C2/C3 fractions was produced.  However, the commissioning activities were
suspended following an explosion and fire on November 5, 1990, in the OSBL
facilities of the complex. The cracker was restarted in July/August 1991 without
using the OSBL facilities.  By April 1992 all the process plants had begun
commercial operation, except LLDPE and wire and cable compounding plants. The
LLDPE plant, considerably delayed during construction, has since been
commissioned.   Also,  the wire and cable compounding plant,  taken up for
implementation at a later date, is getting ready for commissioning.



5. 7      Explosion at the OSBL facilities of the Complex: The Gas Chilling and
Storage Section at the OSBL of Nagothane suffered an explosion and fire on
November 5, 1990, resulting in extensive damage to the facilities and 32 deaths
(Annex III for internal review only). The GOI appointed a high level technical
committee, headed by Dr. Mashelkar (Director, National Chemical laboratories),
to investigate the causes of the accident and evaluate measures to prevent
similar occurrences.   The committee's report was presented to GOI in late
December 1991.  The report was scheduled for review by a GOI Committee of
Secretaries in June 1992. While the findings of the study, and GOI decisions on
suggested actions, are not available to the Bank yet, it is stated to have ruled
out negligence in design, engineering or operation as the cause of the accident
and concluded that material failure was the most likely cause.
5.8       The accident is estimated to have cost IPCL about US$19.2 million for
repairs, of which about 65% was covered by the insurers.'  In addition, the
accident alone resulted in delaying the commissioning of the project by about one
year. The financial loss due to lost production is estimated by IPCL to be about
US$86 sillion. Since the plants were still being commissioned, IPCL was not
covered by insurance for loss of income. Furthermore, the delays caused by the
explosion have caused IPCL to miss the peak in pricing of derivatives in the
international market.   Indications are now that prices of derivatives will
continue to remain at the present low level in the near future.
5.9       Safety considerations were an important design criteria  for the
project from its inception. Modern technologies with state-of-the-art safeguards
were obtained from leading licensors. Proven contractors with extensive basic
engineering and construction experience were selected for implementation of the
project. As part of the development of the project, IPCL conducted a thorough
safety study prior to commissioning and an assessment of hazards and operability
(RAZOP), the recommendations of which were communicated to the Bank and promptly
implemented by IPCL.  IPCL had developed a safety and environment department
which conducted training and awareness programs among managers and future
operators of the plant.  Activities developed by its safety department have
earned IPCL several safety awards in the recent past.
5.10      After the accident a new safety study was commissioned for the entire
complex including a safety audit for the OSBL facilities where the accident took
place.  A leading safety specialist (Cremer & Warner U.K.) was retained who
recommended changes in design and operational and maintenance procedures. These
changes are under isplementation.
5.11      Detailed engineering was undertaken by EIL for most of the basic
engineering packages supplied by foreign licensors or contractors. Two units
were contracted on a turnkey basist (i) the LLDPE/HDPE plant, and (ii) the gas
based captive power plant.  The captive power plant was implemented ahead of
schedule with no major difficulties. The LLDPE/HDPE contract was awarded to a
1/ The reason for only 65% recovery from the insurance company is due to under insurance of the same
magnitude. Due to: (i) higher replacement cost of capital vs. original purchase price; and (ii)
increase in price of imported equipment, because of devaluation of Rupees relative to other
currencies.



foreign contractor bidding in association with an Indian subcontractor, but
assuming total overall responsibility. The plant was scheduled for completion
in February 1990, but was commissioned only in May 1992. Possible delays were
recognized early in contract implementation. Howewver, it took extra effort on
the side of IPCL -- rupee financing to the subcontractor -- which was in fact an
obligation of the contractor and Bank intervention to expedite implementation.
The contract implementation problems were possibly due to: (i) cost increases
during implementation not covered in the initial quotation, (ii) reluctance of
the foreign contractor to fully meet its contractual obligation, (iii) and
changes suggested during implementation by the process licensor based on more
recent developments and experience.
5.12      Part of the concern - especially  for future projects  - is the
difficulties encountered by IPCL in staffing the complex. Due to IPCL's initial
decision to delay investments on project housing and amenities, many experienced
managers  were  roluctant  to move  from Baroda  to Nagothane.   Also,  state
regulations required all positions below senior levels to be filled with locally
recruited and trained personnel. IPCL is taking special efforts to remove these
constraints.     It  has,  in  addition,  adopted  several  suggestions  and
recommendations to improve safety practices in the plant areas. Communication
facilities with feedstock suppliers and nearby towns have been improved. IPCL
has adopted a special program to educate the surrounding community on recommended
safety measures in case of emergencies. It has also prepared an offsite disaster
management plan identifying appropriate infrastructure facilities to be
developed, and is discussing its adoption with the local authorities.
5.13      Procurement: The project was the first time IPCL was using World Bank
funds, thus, both IPCL and EIL had initial difficulties understanding the Bank's
procurement  requirements.   Therefore,  an  IPCL/EIL  team  visited  the  Bank
headquarters to discuss procurement procedures and reach an understanding. There
were also some initial difficulties in developing and agreeing on procedures
appropriate for procurement of commodity plastics. These were solved through the
implementation of a special procurement procedure which allowed for bidding by
telex, with a validity period of 10 days and provision that, if in IPCL's
judgement procurement had to be postponed, new bids could be invited at an
appropriate time. This procedure was adopted in consideration of the volatile
market situation prevailing in the commodities market. IPCL encountered major
contract management problems with the LLDPE/HDPE turnkey contract, where the
foreign contractor had overall performance responsibility, engaging Indian
partners to carry out local procurement and construction services.
5.14      The major difficulty was caused by the procurement for the turnkey
contract of the LLDPE/HDPE plant. The bids were received with less than 0.5%
difference between the quotations supplied by the lowest evaluated bidder (11)
and second lowest evaluated bidder (L2) (after valuation of deviations). IPCL
argued that Li had no track experience in India and therefore wished to award the
contract -- based on the small difference -- to L2. As both contractors were
prequalified, the Bank insisted on awarding the contract to Li. However, the
turnkey contractor was slow in developing a site team and soon experienced
difficulties and misunderstandings with its Indian subcontractors. Subsequent
delays in comissioning of the plant exceeded two years and have adversely
affected the economic viability of the project. Inordinate delays were caused



- 7 -
by lack of understanding between the foreign contractor and the Indian
subcontractors, and by the lack of cooperation from the foreign contractor
adhereing to its contract in terms of overall responsibility for project
execution. Direct Bank intervention was instrumental in forcing a compromise
under which completion of the first stage of the unit has been finalized.
5.15      Proiect Costs and Financing: Actual installed costs of the project -
excluding working capital and interest during construction -- are now estimated
to be Rs.12,144 (US$809) million, compared with the appraisal estimate of
Rs.15,144 (US$1,287) million, (para. 5 of Part III). The variance is mostly due
to provisions for high price contingencies since at the time of preparing the SAR
the costs of equipment were high, and there was anticipation of high inflation
rates, which did not occur. The SAR identified the need for co-financing, for
which, on the proposal of Gol, the arrangements were to be finalized during the
procurement cycle. In October 1989 IPCL entered into a loan agreement with the
EXIM Bank of Japan for the amount of V11.7 billion to close the financing gap of
Rs.3.1 billion.  The SAR had envisaged that the project would be financed by
about 50% loans and 50% equity partly in the form of new shares and the rest from
IPCL's internal cash generation (ICO). However, the project has been financed
entirely through loans 69% and ICG 31%. As a result, the ratio of long-term debt
to equity in FY91 was 65/35 -- against 60/40 stipulated in the Project Agreement.
However, since the company has a good profitability and debt service coverage
from a project point of view, this situation is not likely to cause problems
(paras. 6.7-6.9).
5.16      Disbursements: The appraisal and actual loan disbursements are given
in para. 3 of Part III.  After some initial delays, the actual disbursements
roughly matched the estimates. The loan was actually closed on September 30,
1991, after one year extension. The last disbursement was on September 13, 1991,
and the loan was fully disbursed.
5.17      Loan Allocation: The original allocation and actual disbursements for
Loan 2505-IN are shown in para. SC of Part III. Disbursement for pre-production
polyolefins was close to appraisal estimates.  The original allocations were
revised in September 1989 to reflect changes in financing for license,
engineering and services, as well as the equipment, materials and spares.
6.        Proiect Results
6.1       Proiect Obiectives and Physical Results:  Overall, the project has
achieved  its main objective  through the  introduction of modern,  cleaner
technologies for the manufacture of basic petrochemicals for domestic
consumption.  However, the project was mechanically completed about one year
behind schedule and the commissioning has been further delayed (see para. 5.2
above). Consequently, there were considerable delays in achieving the physical
targets of the project.  Nevertheless, the project has been instrumental in
developing an adequate market for its products through a successful seeding
program. The main cracker and several of the downstream plants are already in
successful operation and the others are being commissioned.  The LLDPE/HDPE
plants are in the final stages of commissioning of the OSEL facilities, although
these are expected to become operational in the second half of 1992.  The
repaired and modified OSBL facilities are scheduled to be recommissioned during



August 1992.  However, as a result of design modification of the operating
procedures, it in possible to operate the complex without the chilling and
storage area.   Therefore,  its completion is not a requirement  for normal
operation of the complex.
6.2       The LDPE, PP and EO/EG plants are now operating satisfactorily.  The
wire and cable compounding plant is also getting ready for commissioning. The
volume of polymers produced since July 1991, and quantities and values of polymer
imports, are summarized in para. 6A of Part III.
6.3       Environmental Asvects:  The project was designed with appropriate
discharge standards and modern technologies for waste minimization and abatement.
IPCL, which itself has received nuserous environmental (and safety) awards,
commissioned and implemented detailed environmental impact studies. The project
has successfully met all requirements set up by the MPCB under the Environment
(Protection) Act.  These standards cospare favorably with the corresponding
guidelines issued under legislation in industrial countries. A comprehensive
wastewater treatment plant has been comsissioned as well as measures to safely
dispose of hydrocarbon emissions (via a venting flare). The power plant has been
designed to meet the standards of MPCB on stack emissions. A large reforestation
plan is well under way, far exceeding the statutory requirements.
6.4       Economic and Financial Rates of Return:   The assumptions used in
estimating the revised economic and financial rates of return are summarized in
para. 6D of Part III. The vroiect economic rate of return (ERR) is now estimated
at 11.4% as against the base case of 18% estimated in the SAR. This variation
is due to the following reasons:
(i) The Project has been delayed by over two years -- partly due to
implementation delays, especially of the Uran gas separation
facilities and of the LLDPE plant, and mostly due to the November
1990, explosion in the complex. IPCL has taken considerable time
and effort to repair the facilities and bring them back to safe
operation.
(ii) International petrochemical prices have dropped significantly
fron their levels of the late 1980s, as a result of large
increases in production capacity, in particular in the Asia
region, and the continuing economic recession in the US and other
developed countries, and a subsequent reduction in margins.
6.5       The ERR and the sensitivity tests are shown in para. 6B of Part III.
The ERR is most sensitive to (i) the level to which capacity utilization can be
raised and maintained, (ii) the speed with which production can be raised to
optimum levels, and (iii) the levels of international prices for polyolefin.
In the unlikely event of the capacity utilization reaching only 80% level, the
ERR may decline to 9.8%. If international prices of polyolefins increase by 20%
over the present levels, the ERR will increase to 14.7%. If, as IPCL expects,
production levels in the Nagothane complex reach 95% by FY95 (instead of by
FY96), the project ERR will improve to 12.2%. Under reasonable scenarios the
project ERR is acceptable, but would require IPCL's best efforts to achieve high
production and efficiency levels.



- 9 -
6.6       The proiect financial rate of return (FRR) is now estimated to be
18.8% compared with the SAR estimate of 11.4%. The variance is mainly due to
savings in project capital costs and the high prices that IPCL now realizes in
the protected Indian market. The FRR and the sensitivity tests are presented in
para. 6C of Part III. The project FRR is most sensitive to domestic prices and
production levels.  Feedstock prices are presently at international levels.
However, with GOI's present liberalization policies and the expected growth in
domestic petrochemical capacity -- substantially in the private sector -- a
significant decline in domestic prices can be expected, which could lead to FRR
declining to lower than ERR if the market is completely opened up.
6.7       Financial Performance:   The financial position of IPCL has been
reviewed taking into account:  (i) delays in commissioning of the Nagothane
Project, (ii) delays in implementation of the Second Petrochemicals Development
Project caused by delays in securing GOI approvals, and (iii) the potential
impact of the recently announced economic liberalization measures. Financial
projections of the company, as estimated during staff appraisal, are given in
Annex I. Present projections are summarized in Annex II. The overall financial
position of IPCL continues to remain good in spite of the various adverse
factors.  This has been mainly due to IPCL's substantially improved revenues
compared with appraisal estimates. Because of high tariff protection against
imports, IPCL has been able to set domestic prices at levels significantly higher
than international prices.
6.8       If domestic petrochemical prices continue at present levels, IPCL is
expected to generate about Rs.30 billion of cumulative internal cash during the
next five years. It is estimated that IPCL will require about Rs.20 billion to
complete the Bank-financed Second Petrochemicals Development Project, and to
service their debt and equity during the period. This would leave about Rs.10
billion for other investments. As part of OI n's economic liberalization program,
IPCL intends to reduce GOl's shares in the corporation to as low as 51%. In
considering various options for the purpose, IPCL should keep in mind its need
for raising adequate capital of suitable blend for its future investment program.
6.9       As part of its overall economic and trade liberalization measures, GOI
is expected to reduce import tariffs on petrochemicals -- though in a phased
manner. If domestic petrochemical prices are reduced on the average by about 15%
during the three year period 1994 to 1997, the ICO of IPCL could be lower by
about Rs.10 billion. This would constrain IPCL's ability to pursue future large
investment program without resorting to heavy borrowing. If this were to happen,
IPCL's cash flow position would be tighter and probably would not be able to
maintain its debt/equity ratio at better than 60/40.
6.10      Impact of Proiect: The main impact of the project must be seen in the
context of the modernization of the basic petrochemical industry in India.
Development of the project occurred against the background of gradual
liberalization of the economy and removal or modification of trade and license
barriers.  The development of a modern production infrastructure will enable
domestic producers to compete under the new economic environment in the domestic
market and meet the growing demand of the Indian chemical industry. The project
has also enabled the use of gas fractions in the manufacture of petrochemicals,



- 10 -
which represents the highest netback value of this natural resource. In the long
term the use of gas is expected to provide Indian olefin manufacturers a
competitive edge in the regional market.
6.11      Indirect project impacts will be felt in the generation of jobs and
creation of new businesses in the downstream industries. Downstream processing
of basic petrochemical products is a labor-intensive manufacturing sector that
pervades many areas of the economy. Products manufactured by the project will
constitute raw materials for the textile industry, for agro-industry, the
transportation sector and construction.  Many of these activities are in the
hands of small-and medium-sized enterprises.  The competitive manufacture of
basic  petrochemicals   will  enable  cost  competitiveness   of  downstream
manufacturers.
Proiect Sustainability
7.1       The Indian domestic market for petrochemicals is expected to exceed
supplies for the foreseeable future (Figure 1).  Likewise, the Asia regional
market is expected to continue being the world's largest net importer of basic
petrochemical products. However, sajor additions to installed capacity are being
developed in India and in the Asia region by experienced producers using state-
of-the-art technologies. The advantages derived from the use of gas feedstocks
and the employment of large economies of scale are expected to enable IPCL to
remain competitive in an increasingly crowded regional market. The financial
projections prepared for the project (para. 6.7) have taken into account the
cyclical nature of petrochemical prices through adoption of lower margins for the
price forecast.  Prices will continue to fluctuate in the future but are not
expected to fall below the long-run marginal costs. Under these conditions the
Nagothane complex is expected to remain viable.  Feedstock supplies are not
expected to be a limiting factor in the foreseeable future, as the conversion to
olefins represents a high netback value for these resources.



- 11 -
Variation of Demand and Installed Capacity
of ETHYLENE in India.
1 400
o 12000- 
0
O l o o 0    0   .............................   ..........   ....
0 800   . ...                             ...  .   ...
T
2  0 0                                  ..   .....  ...| | 
200 
0
1980 1982 1984 1985 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000
Year
Demand   _ Installed Capacity
Figure 1
7.2       The ERR of the project has been considerably affected by delays in
project  completion.   Nevertheless,  under  reasonable  assumptions  used  in
estimating the ERR, it is acceptable (para. 6.4). The complex has been designed
to minimize its long-term environmental impact and is not expected to have an
adverse impact on the Nagothane area (para. 6.3). Feedstock supplies (gas from
Bombay High and propylene from the Bombay area) are not expected to be a limiting
factor in the foreseeable future, as their conversion to olefins represents a
high netback value for these resources. The expansion of the cracker and two of
the downstream units under the Second Petrochemicals Development Project (Loan
3259-IN) will further improve the economic viability and sustainability of the
complex.
7.3       The high FRR of the project is mainly due to the high domestic prices
compared with import parity, supported by high protective tariffs. In line with
the present favorable trend for economic policy reforms, the GOI is expected to
further reduce protective tariffs, to promote market growth and to facilitate
allocative and operational efficiency within the sector. As a result, average
output prices could be forced down by 10 to 20 percent. At the same time input
prices may be raised to reflect changes in exchange rates. These changes can
push down the FRR to about 12%.
7.4       Following the accident at the OSBL, the residents of the community
around the project have become conscious and concerned of the environmental
impact of similar large projects.   IPCL has been aware of the projects
implications and has embarked on a program to keep the community informed. IPCL



- 12 -
is also developing a disaster management plan with the cooperation of local
authorities.  All these seasures should help to minimize the risks of plant
closure due to environmental concerns.
8.        Bank Performance
8.1       Bank involvement was instrumental in developing the project scope,
including choice of alternative technologies/products. Through the Project, the
Bank has maintained constructive dialogue with the GOI on the petrochemical
sector,  its policy  environment  and  its  investment  program.    Throughout
implementation the Bank has cooperated with IPCL in identifying issues adversely
affecting project implementation and developing solutions to their issues.  The
Bank's involvement in this project has resulted in a significant strengthening
of the domestic petrochemical industry in India.
8.2       The difficulties experienced in the execution of the turn-key contract
for the LLDPZ/HDPB plant, call into attention the suitability of strict
application of procurement procedures. Although the pre-qualification procedure
should have taken into account any doubts on the performance of Li, it did not.
Close quotations with large deviations requiring subjective estimates represent
a difficult judgement call.
9.        Borrower Performance
9.1       The borrower (IPCL, the beneficiary) provided the project with an
oxperienced, professionally competent team which managed the project relatively
effectively. The project was completed well within costs and some components
were on schedule. IPCL handled the aftereffects of the explosion maturely and
brought back the facilities into operation without undue delay.
10.       Proiect Relationshil
10.1      The  Bank'  relationship  with  the  GOI  and  IPCL  during  project
implementation has been excellent.   IPCL generally maintained constructive
relationships with its consultants and contractors.
11.       Consulting Services
11.1      The project obtained process technologies for the various plants from
well known international firms. The enginoering and construction management
services for all plants other than LLDPZ and the captive power plant were
provided by EIL. BIL engineered the utilities and offsite facilities. Overall,
the consultants performed satisfactorily.
12.       Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The loan agreement for Loan 2505-IN was adequate and appropriate for
achieving the project objectives in all the key areas.  The staff appraisal
report -- along with documentation in the project files -- provided adequate
background to the Bank missions for efficient review of project implementation.
IPCL provided all the project-related information requested by the Bank. A Bank
supervision mission in November 1991 carried out the preparatory work (including



- 13 -
financial and economic analysis, and rate of return computation) for the PCR.
This Project Completion Report was prepared by a Bank completion mission in Kay
1992 consolidating the above information.



- 14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Following are the verbatim comments of IPCL, responding on the
Borrower's behalf:
Confirmation of Information in Part III
The information in Part III of PCR iB in order.
Comments on Analysis in Part I
We find the report exhaustive and factual.
Bank's Performance
The Bank's performance has been very good both in terms of speedy
clearance of the proposals and disbursements.   However, for a large turnkey
contract of LLDPE plant, where the difference of evaluated price of deemed Ll and
L2 was marginal and could be attributed to error of estimate, the project
authorities had requested for World Bank's permission to negotiate with both Ll
and L2. But the Bank strictly followed the procedure. In retrospect it is felt
that the proposal for negotiation might have resulted in selection of a better
performer.
Borrower's Performance
The project authorities were exposed for the first time with the World
Bank procedures for procurement and initially had difficulties in conforming to
the expectations of the World Bank in full in following the ICB procedure. This
was resolved amicably at an early meeting with World Bank. Since then the people
who had been trained in the procedures for the 1st loan are no longer available
and project authorities will take special efforts to train the officers for
smooth utilisation of the IInd loan.
Prolect Relationship
The Bank's attitude has always been positive and this was borne out
by the fact that the emergency requirements were agreed to readily in time. This
helped in speedy implementation of the project.
Any Other Comments
We have obtained co-financing facility of 11.722 billion yen from EXIM
Bank of Japan for implementation of the MGCC. They were very cooperative during
the negotiation and finalisation of loan agreement.   Drawal procedures were
simple and disbursements were effected timely.



- 15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INPORMRTIOE
1.              Related Bank Loans andlor Credits:  Loan 2505-IN is the first Bank
Group operation in India in the petrochemical subsector. The other operation in
the subsector in India is summarized below.
LonCtedit                                Putwem                                         You o            AW
Lk                                                                                     Aootoval
Loan 3258/59-IN                       Expand ethylene capacity at MOCC to 400,000      1991              in progtr
Second Petrochemicals Development    tpy, LLDPE/HDPE capacity by 75,000 tpy and
Project                               2nd phase wirelcable plat at Nagota.. S.uing
up of a now 60.000 tpy pp plant, a new 75,000 tpy
engineering polymers procesn facility,
revamping expaion of PBR to 50,000 tpy in
Vadodara. TA component for fin ing ttining &
analytical equipment for CIPET; and imports of
polymers for market development.
2.              Pried  sb
Item                             Date Planned                  Date Revind                     Dde Acl
Idetification                    Sept./Oct.1980                -                               SeptiOct.19S0
Appraial                         Jan./Feb. 19S1                Oct./Nov. 192                   Oct./Nov. 192
Post Appraisal                                                                                 Aug"n 1914
Board Presentation               June 1981                     June 1913                       Mazb 19U3
Loan Signature                                                                                 May 1985
Loan Effectiveneu                                                                              AugUt 1935
Loan Closing                     Sept.30, 1990                 Sept.30, 1991                   Sept.30. 1991
Loan Completio                                                                                 Sept.13, 1991
Planned dates are as in the Project Brief. Revised dates are an in the Issues
Paper. Delay between identification and pout appraisal was due to time taken by
government for project approval and decision on ownership. Post appraisal, among
other issues, reviewed technology selection.



- 16 -
3.        Loa  Disbursments
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------
Bank Fiscal Year        (Disbursements in US Dollars Million)
and Semester
ending                 -------------------------------------------------------
Estimated         Actual       Actual % of
Estimated
1986   December 31          -              6.3              -
June 30           18.9              9.9            52
1987   December 31        32.7            20.0             61
June 30           51.6             41.3            80
1988   December 31        85.4            71.8             84
June 30          134.5            147.0            109
1989   December 31       208.4           214.1            103
June 30          253.5            242.4             96
1990   December 31       274.7           245.4             89
June 30          289.1            282.4             98
1991   December 31       300.0           288.9             96
June 30            -              293.8             98
1992   September 30        -             300.0            100
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------_
Loan amount was fully utilized with the last disbursement on September 13, 1991.
Proiect lavleaentation
Project Components        Mechanical Completion          Commissioning
----------------------------------------------------__-----------------------__--
SAR assessment:
Process Plants           October 1989        December 1989
Utilities Plant          August 1989         End 1989
Actual Performance:
Contract           Actual
Gas Cracker              Feb. 1989           Oct 1989           July 1991
LDPZ                     Dec 1988           Oct 1989            Sep 1991
PP                       Dec 1988            Mar 1989           April 1989
EO/EC,                   Nov 1988            Oct 1989           Nov 1991
LLDPE/HDPE               Feb 1990            Apr 1992           Being comissioned
Utilities                Mid 1988            Sep 1989           Dec 1989



- 17 -
5.          Prolet Costs and Financing
(Re. million)
-----------------------_______---_------__---_-----------------__------------__-------------------------------
Category                                          Estimated Costs          Actual Costs
Foreign   Local      Total      Foreign  Local     Total
Costs    Costs      Costs      Costs    Costs
Costs
1.  Equipment, Materials & Spares
Gas Cracker                                 726     1,010      1,736       787       1,575     2.362
ZO/EG                                       185       250        435       156         365       521
LDPE                                        243       267        510       338         395       733
LLDPE                                       210       299        509       470         610     1,080
PP                                          161       214        375       216         226       442
Propylsne Recovery                           26        63         89         -           -         -
Butane                                        -          -         -         13         38        51
Wire and Cable                                                               73        138        211
Acatylens Black                              14         29        43         24         59         83
Utilities and Offsites                      808      1,580     2,388        731      1,466      2.197
General Facilities                           50        271       321         73        326        399
Spare Parts                                 147         49       196          -          -          -
Ocean Freight & Insurance                   280          -       280          -          -          -
-------------------------------------------------------------
2,850     4,032      6,882     2,881       5,198     8,079
2.  License, Basic Engineoring & Exp. Assat.        570        144        714       849         304     1,153
3. Detailed Engineering & Proj. Services              12       408        420         -         363       363
4. Land, Civil Works and Buildings                   38        781        819         -         636       636
5. Erection                                          33        482        515        10         413       423
6. Start-up and Coinissioning                          -       200        200         -           -         -
7.  Township                                          10       394        404         -         535       535
8.  Tomporary Facilities                             33        109        142        52         511       563
9. Managemont and Training                            12        99        111         -         392       392
10. Infrastructure Facilities                        126       729        855         -           -         -
---__--------------------------------------------------------
Basic Cost Estimate (BCE)                 3,684      7,378    11,062      3,792      8,352    12,144
Physical Contingencies                               368       738      1,106         -           -          -
Price ContinSencies                                1,078     2,19S      3,278         -           -         -
Total Installed Cost                      5,130    10,314    15,444       3,792       8,352    12,144
Working Capital                                      716      1,078     1,794          -        200        200
Interest During Construction                       1,961     1,166      3,127      1,265      2,741      4,006
Project Financing Required                         8,887    12,558    21,455       5,057     11,293    16,350



- 18 -
B. Prolect Financing
(Rs. million)
Sources                            ExRected                     Present
Foreign    Local    Total  Foreign    Local    Total
Long Term Debt
World Bank              2,520         -    2,520    2,729          -    2,729
GOI/Cofinancing         5,286    2,414    7,700  2,328a/    4,728    7,056
Medium Term Loans                               -    1,420    1,420
Total            7,806    2,414   10,220    5,057    6,148   11,205
Eguitv
GOI                         -    6,001    6,001          -         -         -
IPCL                        -    2,400    2,400          -         -        -
Internal Cash               -    1,742    1,742          -    5,145    5,145
Total                 -   10,143   10,143          -    5,145    5,145
Total Proiect Financinf  7.806   12.557   202.363    5.57   11I293  16.350
a/ Funded out of foreign exchange loans totalling Rs.3,060 million, with the rest
used for local cost financing.
C. Bank Financing
(US$ million)
Category                             SAR Estimate                   Actual
Equipment, Materials and
Spares                            180.0                       182.9
License, Engineering and
Services                           20.0                        27.3
Preproduction Polyolefins                90.0                         89.8
Unallocated                              10.0
--  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -



- 19 -
6.    Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
The Nagothane Maharashtra Gas Cracker complex (MGCC) facilities
suffered a serious explosion on November 5, 1990 in the gas chilling and storage
section of the complex. This accident resulted in substantial plant damage and
several deaths. The complex could be commissioned only in July/August 1991 after
repairs and modifications, and has not yet fully established its production
capabilities. It is expected that the operation of the MGCC facilities will be
stabilized in FY93 and will reach 95X of its rated capacity beyond 1995.
Production of the various products in the second half of FY92 and in April 1992
are summarized below.
(in product tons)
Products          FM9          Aoril 1992  Total
Ethylene           34,352      13,169       47,521
Propylene          20,851       4,681       25,469
Polypropylene      24,100       4,227       28,327
LDPE               12,021       5,614       17,635
EO/EG               1,778       1,105        2,883
The Project included provision of foreign exchange funds for the
import of polymers as seeding materials to develop the market for products
proposed to be produced at Nagothane. The import of polymers under the Project
and their value are summarized below.
(Quantity in tons)
(Value in US$ millions)
Yuer                 LW             LLIDPE            =            Total
1985/86  Q               .                         3,000           3,000
V                              -           2.99           2.99
1986/87  Q                              -               -
V
1987/88  Q          28,991          9,306               -         38,297
V          26.12           8.85               -          34.97
1988/89  Q           8,993         11,602           1,800         22,395
V          11.64           14.32           2.33           28.29
1989/90  Q               -         11,188               -         11,188
V              -           10.02              -           10.02
1990/91  Q               -         17,909               -         17,909
V              -           14.40              -           14.40
Total    Q          37,984         50,005           4,800          92,789
V          37.76          47.59            5.32           90.67
The small difference in value compared with the Bank disbursement is
due to slightly different exchange rates used.



- 20 -
B. Economic Benefits
Based on the assumptions *uimmarized in Section D. below, the
project's ERR in 11.4%. The ERR is sensitive to capacity utilization, the speed
with which it is achieved and international petrochemical prices as *umiarized
below.
Variatious                     ERR t
Maximum Capacity build up to
95%  (Base Case)         11.4
90%                      10.9
85%                      10.4
80%                       9.8
Higher International Prices
Base Case                11.4
+10%                     13.2
+20%                     14.7
Capacity Buildup
Bass Case                11.4
95% achieved one
year earlier             12.2
C. Financial Imnact
The project's FRR is still an attractive 18.8%. The sensitivity tests
on FRR are presented below:
Vaiatios                       FRm
Maximum Capacity build up to
95% (Base Came)          18.8
90%                      18.2
85%                      17.7
80%                      17.1
Revenue down by
Base Case                18.8
-10%                     16.5
-20%                     13.8
80% Capacity Utilization and
Revenue less by 20%        12.0
D. Assusotion. Used in MM and FRR Sensi&ivity Analvmi
Capital Cost. The total project financlng, as now estimated by IPCL Is
Rs.16,354 million. Excluding pro-production Interest of Rs.4,010 million and
margin money (working capital not financed by short term commercial borrowing)
of Rs.200 million, the total installed cost is estimated at RJ.12,144 million.
By converting local costs Into dollars using average official exchange rates
prevailing during the period in which expendltures were incurred, the project
cost is estimated at USS8O9 milllon. Economic capital cost has been estimated
by subtracting duties and taxes from the above capital cost and using a
conversion factor of 0.8 to convert rupee costs into dollars. All costs have
been brought to constant PY92 terms using an average U.S. dollar price escalation



- 21 -
of 5% per year from FY86 to FY92. The total economic capital cost of the project
is USS712 million in FY92 prices. The analysis uses a plant operating life of
15 years.
Revenuesj  For purposes of estimating revenues, the facilities are expected
to be commissioned in FY93 after completing all repairs. The complex is expected
to operate at 50% capacity in FY93, 65% in FY94, 80% in FY95 and 95% thereafter.
Financial revenues have been computed at existing Indian prices, assuming that
they will remain constant in real terms. Economic prices are based on current
international prices, appropriately adjusted for shipping costs and expected
trends in the international petrochemical market.
Operating Costs. Financial costs are based on actual prices being paid by
IPCL and are expected to remain constant in rupee terms. Economic costs have
been estimated using international prices for traded items. The economic price
of C2/C3 was estimated at US$130 per ton (FY92 prices). This was derived by using
a fuel oil price of US$85 per ton, which on calorific content basis corresponds
to a natural gas price of USS100 per ton. To this was added a separation charge
of US$30 per ton. The other major raw material - FCC C3, was priced at US$210,
about 1.6 times the price of crude oil at US$18 per barrel (FY92 prices).
E. Studies
Purpose as                                        Impact
Studies                  defined at                      Status               of
Appraisal                                          Study
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__-
Pricing & Trade          To make domestic industry       Complete           Impact
Policies for the         efficient and competitive                          awaited
Project Products
Export Market            To develop an export            Complete           zxport
Potential for            market for finished                               markets
Selected Finished        products based on the                               iden.
Products                 Project petrochemicals
Detailed Safety          To assess impact of risks       Complete           FkdS
Audit of the             to the Project Area and                             being
Project                  the surrounding community                          adttd



- 22 -
7.    Status of Covenants
Section                             CoLverDrln                                                       tt
I'rve6et AreernMgt
Loan Sch.4           The Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintan a trining and TA unit for the  4/86                 In complince
purposs of disemminating information on technical
developmenut ad meet the needs of rkiled personnel in
the plastics procesing industry in India;
(b) give necesary clearances to IPCL for timely import of    85/86
polymers staing in fiscal year 1985/e6,
(c) carry out by Dec. 31. 1985 a study on export market  12IV5
potential for selected finished products under a TOR
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
Loan 4.03            G01 shaU take adequate measures to enrure that the gas                         in compliane
development plans are consistent with Project                                 with considerble delays
requirements, and that physical facilities for feedstock
separation and supply to the project sal be
established.
Proj. 2.06           IPCL shaU implement nd operate the Project accordiDS to                        in compliance
environmental safety sandards satisfactory to the Bank.
Proj. 2.07           For the purpoee of carrying out the program of pre-     AnUlly
production plasties imports under Part E of the Project,
the Corporation shall, by January 31 each year, furnieb to
the Bank its annal market development plan for the
following fiscal year, and s    impIement sid program as
shall be agreed upon between the Bank ad dh
Corporation.
Pmj. 3.03            The Corpoation sall take out and mainin with
re pon iblb innuers, or make other proviaio  satfactofy
to the Dak for, inurance agait mch riaks and in such
amouts as  al be consistent with apprpriate practice.
Proj. 3.04           The Corporain   l, by June 30, 19U, eater into lon      6/U3                    BEatmd wi  BPCL
term mpply conucts satisfactory to the Dank for bed-                           Negoiatn with ONOC
tock and  e Sam for the Project.
Proj. 3.06           IPCL sha: (i) employ qualified mangers during project                           Employed qualiid
implmentation; uad Cu) prior to mEng any appointment                           officer but did nvt
to usenor ma emena positions, sl fhmish to te Bak                              coak wih the BRa  in
th details of qualifications and experience of the proposed                    filling vacancies
m.
Proj. 4.02           IPCL du: (-i) have it a    l finncial statements an     Annualy                 in complianc
account audited each fic  yer in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
indepeadent auditor acceptable to tbe Bank;
(u) furnish to the Bank the audited account and the
auditor's report within six mooths after end of each
fil year.



- 23 -
Proj. 4.04             Except u the Bank shal otherwise agree the Corporation                             in coaPliae
all: (I Not incur any debt that would rise aggregate
debt of the corporation to greter than 1.5 times the
corpany equity; Cu) After completion of the Project,
mainain curmnt ratio of not less thin 1.3; (iii) not incur
additional debt over level necessary for Project, if, as a
result the debt service coverage will fall below 1.3; (iv)
not prepay any debt if, as a result, the current ratio will
fall below 1.5.
Stages in           Month/                         SW in                Specialization                   Performance
Project
Cycle               Year       Persons             Field                represented                    Rating   ProbLme
Preparation          9/80        2                    2                 Eng, FA
Appraisal           10/82        4                    5                 Eng, Eco, FA
Sector Spec.
Post Appraisal    7/84           4                    3                 Elg, Eco. FA                   Updating, Tochoogy review
1          3/86        1                   1                 EKg                                1
2          9/87        1                    3                 En.                                1
3         10/88        3                   2                  Eng, PA                           1
4          9/90        1                   2                  Eng                               2      zxplosion, LLDPZ
5          5/91        3                   3                  Eng, Eco, PA                      2      delays
6         11/91        3                   2                  Eng, Eco, FA                      3
Pro. ict C4Iletion
1          4/92        1                   2                   EIg
-----------------------------------------------------            -----------------     __---- __----------------------------



- 24 -
Page 1 of 3
(current Rs. Lillion)
1990/12            1"122             1 n               199/9              1/"41
T .5.1..fiS_ taysms                   21,781             25,248            30,406             31,066             32,770
Variable Cost
Feedstock/Energy                    7,772              9,132            11,234             11,659             12,295
Materials & OthOrs                  3,311              3,776             4,552              4,628              4,881
Total Variable Cost                11,083             12,906            15,786             16,287             17,176
Fixed Cost
Depreciation                        2,160              2,150             2,120              2,100              2,007
Others                              1,319              1,399              1,483             1,571              1,666
3,479             3,549              3,603              3,671              3,673
Total O9 rati'    Coat                14,562             16,457             19,389             19,958            20,849
Corporate Overhead                        415                488               556                590                625
Operating IncOO                         6,804             8,303             10,461             10,518             11,296
Financial Exponsae
L-T Debt Interest                   1,488              1,429              1,297              1,114                931
S-T Debt Interest                     359                402                 35                  1                -
Total Financial Expensoa            1,847              1,831              1,332              1,115                931
Other Incone                               12                148                460              1,607
Incone Before Tax                       4,957             6,484              9,277              9,863             11,972
Corporate Tax                           2,902              3,320              4,499              4,577              6,217
InCOme After Tax                        2,055              3,164             4,776              5,266              5,755



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                       Pago 2 of 3
MAKARASKTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
ILOAN 2505-INI
IPCL - Prolectod Balance Shot - SAR Estimate
(as of Mwcch 31, cuffent Pa. million)
990/91            1991/92           192               1993/94            194a9i
Curront Assets
Cash                                 167                188               226               232               244
Accounts Receivable                4,789              5,466             6,583             6,687             7,049
Inventory
Raw Materials                    2,006             2,303              2,813             2,886             3,034
Work in Process                    416                470               553               570                596
Finishod Goods                   2,849             3,195              3,814             3,864             4,068
Total Inventory                  5,271             5,968              7,180             7,320              7,698
Total  Current Assets                 10,227            11,622            13,989             14,239            14,991
JuriLus CM                               122             1,480             4,648             10,398            14,973
Gross Fixed Assets                29,652             29,652            29,652             29,652            29,652
Acc. Depreciation                  8,357             10,507            12,627             14,727            16,734
Not Fixed Assets                  21,295             19,145            17,025             14,925            12,918
TOTAL ASSETS                      31,644             32,247            35,662             39,562            42,882
Current Liebilitle_
Accounts Payable                    1,071             1,223              1,481             1,523              1,602
S-T Debt                           2,299                201                  8                -                  -
Current Portion of LT Debt            615             1,420              1,420             1,420              1,420
Total Current Liabilities          3,985              2,844             2,909              2,943             3,022
Total Lons Torr Debt                  10,922             9,502              8,082             6,662              5,242
Sbare Capital                       7,861             7,861              7,861             7,861              7,861
Retained Earnings                   8,876            12,040             16,810            22,096             26,757
Not Worth                          16,737            19,901             24,671            29,957             34,618
TOTAL LIAILITIES A EQUITY             31,644            32,247             35,662             39,562            42,882
Ratio
Current Ratio                           2.6               4.1               4.8                4.8                5.0
Debt/Equity Ratio                     39/61            32/78              25/75              18/82             13/87



- 26 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                        Page 3 of 3
INDO
MAHARASHTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2505-IN)
IPCL - Proiected Funds Cash Flow Statement - SAR Estimate
(current Rs. million)
1990/91            1991/92            192/L93             1923194             122L5
12SM
Profit After Tax                     2,055               3,164               4,778              5,286               5,755
Depreciation                          2,160              2,150               2.120              2,100               2,007
Internal Cash Genoration             4,215               5,314               6,890              7,386               7,762
Shazre Capital                          -                   -                  -                   -                   -
Long Term Debt                           -
Short Torm Debt                         249                 -                  -                   -                   -
Total Debt                              249                 -                  -                   -                   -
TOTAL SOURCES                            4,464               5,314              6,890               7,386               7,762
Capital Expenditure                     -                   -                   -                  -                   -
Loan Repayments
Long Term Debt                        298                615               1,420               1,420              1,420
Short Term Debt                        -               2,098                 193                   8                  -
Total Repayment                       296              2,713               1,613               1,428              1,420
Dividend                                     -                   -                 -                   -                1,094
Increase (Decrease in
Workina Capital                     4,044              1,243               2,109                 206                 673
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                       4,342               3,956               3,722               1,636              3,215
Surplus (Deficit)                           122              1,358               3,168               5,750               4,575
Acc. Surplus (Deficit)                      122              1,480               4,648              10,398              14,973



2 27 -                 Annex 11
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2505-IN)
IPCL PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT. 1992193-1996/97
(current Rs. million)
1992193  1993/94  199495  1995/96  1996/27
Total Sales(metric tons)       526462  663656  684304  672874  748405
Gross Sales Revenue           24004.1  25659.0 30719.1  33043.5 40562.0
Less:
Excise Duty                    4188.9  4637.9  5848.1  6681.9  8379.8
SalesTax                        923.2  1027.4  1282.3  1440.1  1766.5
Net Sales Revenue             18892.0  19993.8 23588.8  24921.6 30415.7
Other Income                     90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0
Total Revenue                  18982.0 20083.  23678.8 25011.6 30505.7
Costs of Sales:
Feedstock                      5761.6  6304.1  7797.2  8554.8  10065.8
Catalysts&Chemicals             1055.9  1162.9  1411.4  1672.6  1961.5
Utilities                      1644.2  1769.0  2117.0  2305.9  2587.9
Selling Expenses                902.8  1014.6  1240.1  1384.0  1685.4
Salaries & Wages                857.1   898.8   952.3  1058.7  1163.6
Repalr & Maintenance            832.2   901.3  1045.0  1244.5  1387.8
Insurance                       367.7   382 1   437.9   503.7   519.9
Admin. Overhead                  823.6   890.6   974.6  1088.1  1200.1
Depreciation                    2115.1  2119.8  2611.5  3245.4  3273.5
LTD Interest                    1754.7  1653.9  1436.7  1606.2  1511.7
STD Interest                     277.5   277.5   277.5   277.5   138.8
16392.4  17374.7  19851.1  22499.3  25058.9
Income Before Tax               2639.6  2789.1  3907.6  2592.2  5526.8
Corporate Tax                      0.0     0.0  1030.0      0.0     0.0
Income After Tax                2639.6  2789.1  28T7    2592.   5526.8
Income BeforeTax/NotSales(%)      14.0    13.9    16.6    10.4    18.2
Retum on Capital Employed(%)      14.4    16.5    20.7    11.2    18.5
ContrlbutlontotheExchequwr      5112.1  5665.3  8160.4  8122.0  10146.3



- 28-                  Annec 11
Page 2 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2505-IN)
IPCL PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET. 1993-1997
(As of March 31, current Rs. million)
Current Assets              1993     1994    1995      996    1997
Cash & Bank Balance        860.5    283.4   618.0   1220.7  5104.1
Inventories:
Stores(Incl.Cat.&chem.)   1360.2   1482.8  1750.7   2080.8  2368.6
Raw Materials              240.1    262.7   324.9    356.4   419.0
Work-in- Progress          295.0    316.2   370.3    421.5   476.1
Finished Goods             995.5   1067.3  1249.9   1422.6  1606.9
Accounts Receivable       1086.9   1150.3  1357.2   1433.8  1749.9
Loans & Advances          2379.6   2542.5  28733   3209.0  3630.
Total Current Assets      7217.6   7105.2  8544.2  10144.9  15355.6
.Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets       24037.1  25407.1  30433.0  36830.4 37910.6
Less Accumu. Deprecia.    9497.2  11617.0  14228.5  17474.0 20747.5
Net Fixed Assets         14539.9  13790.1  16204.5  19356.4 17163.0
Capital Work-in-Progress  5490.0   8131.2  6769.3   2323.4  2273.4
Other Investment           248.5    708.5  1358.5   1608.5  1608.5
Deferred Expenses           30.0     25.0    20.0      15.0    10.0
Total Assets             27526.0  29760.0 32896.5  33448.2 36410.5
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable          1784.5   1859.2  2069.6   2176.9  2382.8
Other S.T. Liabilities     178.4    185.9   206.0    217.7   238.3
Advances from Customers    377.8    399.9   471.8    4984    608.3
Interest Payable            79.2      79.2    79.2     79.2    79.2
Dividend Payable           186.0    372.0   372.0    372.0   372.0
Short Term Debt           1500.0   10    15000   1500 0
Total Current Liabilitles  4106.0   4396.2  4688.6   4844.2  3680.6
Lona Term Debt           13958.0  13484.6  13823.2  11999.1  10970.0
Eauity
Paid-up Capital           1860.0   1860.0  1860.0   1860.0  1860.0
Retained Earnings         76020  10019.1  12524.8  14745.0  19M.8
Not Equity                9462.0  11879.1  14384.8  16605.0 21759.6
Total Uabilltle & Equity  27526.0  29760.0 32896.5  33448.2 36410.5
Current Ratio               1.76      1.62    1.82      2.09    4.17
LT Debt/                      60       53       49       42       34
Equity Ratio              40       47       51       58      68



-29 -                       Annex H
Page 3 of 3
PROJECT COMPLEnION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2505-IN)
IPCL PROJECTED FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT. 1992/93-1996/97
(current Re. million)
1992/93  1993194  1994195  1995196  1996/97
Sources
Net Income                      2639.6   2789.1   2877.6   2592.2   5526.8
Depreciation                    2115.1   2119.8   2611.5   3245.4   3273.5
Internal Cash Generatlon         4754.7   4908.9   5489.2   5837.7   8800.4
Share Capital                       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Borrowings                        861.3   1289.2   1240.6    592.7       13.4
Others
Total Sources                    5616.0   6198.1   6729.7   6430.4   8813.7
Applications
Capital Investment               3547.6   4011.3   3664.0   1961.5   1030.1
Increase in Other Investment       170       460      650       250         0
Debt Repayment                    358.5   1762.6    9020    2416.8   1042.4
Dividend                          186.0    372.0    372.0    372.0    372.0
Increase of Deferred Expenses       -5        -5        -5       -5        -5
Increase In Working Capital:
Cash Increas                      151.8   -577.1    334.6    602.7   3883.4
Other Than Cash Increase         1207.1    174.4    812.1    842.4   2490.8
Total Applcato                   5616.0   6198.1   6729.7   6430.4   8813.7
LTD Service Coverage                3.0       1.9      2.7       1.8      4.0
Self-financing Ratlo(%)              76       68        66       70        90



