Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3959-!
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300.0 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
MAHARASHTRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
February 26, 1985
Thb docunmnt hs a restricted distribution and may be uwed bY recipients only in the performance of
heir offiec  duties. Its contents mty not otherwise be disclosed without World Ebnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 20, 1985)
US$1.00      -  Rs 12.9r5
Rs 1.00      -  US$  0.77
Rs 1 million - US$ 77,000
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange r.te is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 12.0,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BICP    -       Bureau of Industrial Costs and Prices
C2      -       Ethane
C3      -       Propane
EIL     -       Engineers India Limited
GOI     -       Government of India
HDPE    -       Rig -density Polyethylene
ha      -       Hectare
JiB     -       International Competitive Bidding
IPCL    -       Indian Petrochemicals Corporation, Ltd.
km      -       Kilometer (0.62 mile)
kg      -       Kilogram (2.2 lbs.)
LCB     -       Local Competitive Bidding
LDPE    -       Low-density Polyethylene
LIT     -       Limited International Tendering
LLDPE   -       Linear low-density polyethylene
m3      -       Cubic meters
MIDC    -       Maharashtra Industrial Development Corp.
MSG     -       Maharashtra State Govermnent
ONGC    -       Oil and Natural Gas Commission
PVC     -       Polyvinyl chloride
PP      -       Polypropylene
PS      -       Polystyrene
RBI     -       Reserve Bank of India
tpy     -       Tons per year



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
INDIA
MANARASETRA PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
LOAN AID PROJECT SUHMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:             Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited (IPCL)
Amount:                  US$300.0 million..
Terms:                   Repayment over 20 yearJ, including 5 years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Re-lendina Terms:        For the petrochemical production complex, GOI vill
onlend US$210 million to IPCL for a period of 15
years, including 6 years of grace, at an interest
rate of not less than 13.75Z per annum. GOI will
bear the foreign exchange risk.
For the market development imports component, GOI
-   will make available to IPCL the foreign exchange
equivalent of US$90 million to enable it to import
polymers. IPCL will repay these funds to GOI as
imports are effected.
Proiect                  The project is designed to increase the domestic
Description:             availability of polymers (petrochemicals used in the
manufacture of final plastic products) in order to
help satisfy the large growth in demand for plastic
products expected in India. It forms an integral
part of the Government's plans for optimal utilization
of India's natural gas resources. The project
provides for the establishment of a gas-based
petrochemical manufacturing facility near Bombay.
The facility will consist of process plants for
ethylene and polymer production, together with
facilities for pover generation, vate. supply,
feedstock supply, road and rail transpozt, fire and
security systems, and an employee township. The
project will also provide US$90 million to GO to
help finance the import of polymers needed to develop
the i-arket in India prior to plant commissioning.
Project benefits include an annual foreign excbhuge
savings of approximately US$230 million from import
substitution; the creation of considerable employment
opportunities through an estimated US$400 million
expansion of production/conversion capacity by the
This document hus h restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



private-sector processing industry; the provision of
improved shelter, clothing, household products; and
improved food storage and distribution through the
adoption of plastics packaging techniques. The
project faces a market risk which will be mitigated
through a careful build-up of the domestic market for
polymers. Such a build-up is considered feasible
given the high benefit/cost ratios for plastics
applications in India. The project faces no critical
technical risks.
Estimated Cost in Constant 1984 Prices:l]
(175 millions)
Item                          Local         Yorei2u         Total
Equipment, Materials, and Spares           335.9         237.5           573.4
License, Basic Engineering, and
Process Management Services               12.0          47.5            59.5
Detailed Engineering and Project
Services                                  34.0           1.0           35.0
Land, Civil Works, Erection,
and Buildings                            147.2           9.5           156.7
Infrastructure Facilities                   60.7          10.5            71.2
Nanagement and Training                      8.3           1.0             9.3
Start-up and Commissioning                  16.7                          16.7
Base Cost Estimate                   614.         307:0           921.8
Ij Includes US$208 million in Taxes and Duties.



-lll-
(US$ millions)
Local        Foreign        Total
Physical Contingencies                     61.5          30.7          92.2
Price Contingencies                       183.2          89.8         273.0
Working Capital                            89.8          59.7         149.5
Total Installed Cost                        949.3         487.2        1436.5
.
Interest during Construction               97.2         163.4         260.6
Total Financing Required for
Petrochemical Complex                    1046.5         650.6        1697.1
Pre-production Imports Ij of Polyolefins       -           90.0          90.0
Total Financing Requirements              1,046.5         740.6       1,787.1
Financing Plan 'for Petrochemical Complex):
Equity
GOI                                       500.1                       500.1
IPCL                                      200.0                       200.0
Internal Cash Generation
from project gj                          145.2           -           145.2
Subtotal                              845.3            -           845.3
Lona-term Debt
IBRD                                       -            210.0         210.0
GOI/Cofi.nanciers                         109.5         440.6         550.1
Debenturei;                                91.7                        91.7
Subtotal                              201.2          650.6         851.8
Bank-financed Pre-production Imports 1/      -           90.0          90.0
Total                               1.046.5          740.6       1.787.i
1/ Imports of polyolefins during the years 1985/86 through 1988/89 while
complex is being constructed.
j/ Project generates some cash during early starting years while construction
is still being completed on other process units.



- iv -
Disburs-ow'ts.5 I86B2                                   8      FM  M  EK  o
Proimet Facilitie:   Annual        9.9  14.7   64.9  101.0   17.6   1.9
Cumulative    9.9  24.6   89.5  190.5  208.1  210.0
rtP oual      9.0  18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   9.0
Cumulative    9.0  27.0   45.0   63.0   tl.0   90.0
of RUtusll:          17.9z
AnurAipal 1X=ort:  No. 4467-TN, dated Februay 15. 1985.



1PO1T AND RZCMOINDATION oF TIM P11 IDUNT TO TSI
EMICUTIVI DIIZCTORI ON A PIOPOSID LOAN TO INDIA
FDA THE      AIRTRA PTRoECAL PROaCT
1.      I mubmit the following report and recosmendation on a proposed loan
in an auount of US$300.0 million (equivalent) on standard terms to help finance
the conetruction of a major petrochmicals manufacturing facility in the State
of Eaharashtra in IndLa and to develop the market for plastces, polymer. and
synthetic fibre products. C0I would bear the foreign exchange and interest
rate nsa.
PART I - THE ECONOMY |
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective' (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), vas distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Backaround
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and ai annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
Hovever, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has
been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3Z per annum). As a
result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at
factor cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 33Z in 1981/82, while the share of
industry rose from 20S to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid
enough to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7% in 1983/84, while the gross domestic
investment rate rose from 12.5% of GDP to 24.82 in 1983/84. Foreign savings
)  Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Narmada River Development (Gujarat) Sardar
Sarovar Dam and Power Project (No.P-3937-IN), dated February 6, 1985.



-2-
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the
early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment.
External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and averaging below 1% for the past five
years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3Z of GDP, and
presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3Z. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an e-xpanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
5.3%, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In
1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent
years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply
shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and
the opening up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pres-
sures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These
setbacks coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid
down a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall
growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
GDP growth averaged almost 5% per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5Z per annum - substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels
and liberalized policies on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commer-
cial borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of
infrastructure and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved
performance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement
in performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate
of wholesale prices declined from over 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83,
but rose to over 9% in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982/83 drought
on food prices. Further improvements in the policy environment will be
required to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment



-3-
without putting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving infla-
tionary expectatlons.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980c has not been steady, maiuly because
of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980/S1 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real GDP growing by 7.62 and 5.32, respectively. While
industrial output expanded by 42 in 1980/81 and 8.6Z in 1981/82, recovery vas
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise
by more than 152 and 5.52. respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail
transport, already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10%. 9.62 and 12.52, respectively. This over-
all improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought
in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production by 42. brought dow the CDP
growth rate to 1.82, and put further strains on the already difficult balance
of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of
various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and
distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the
otherwise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy recovered
in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7%
vith agricultural production growth in the 9%-10% range and industrial growth
of 4.5Z. The major factors contributing to the good economic performauce
during 1983/84 vere the excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural
policies and programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport
sectors. The pover sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher
growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by 102-122 over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6Z per annum-sufficient
to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise
from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs
to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7% due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the commissioning
of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal plants.
As a result, power generation was about 11.5% below requirements and con-
stituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were adver-
sely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and
coal. To improve performance in the power sector, the Government re ently
increased incentives for higher labor and management productivity in thermal
plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-kms, grew by only 0.5% in
1983/84, reflecting sluggish demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5%
in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combined with stocks already avail-
able this level of production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand



-4-
growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply had
the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these key
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to
enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit.  The gap betveen gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late
1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1Z of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6% of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substan-
tial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to
maintain investment at about 252 of GDP, a major effort will be required to
raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity,
more efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1%-2.3% of
GDP to 1.5Z-1.8%, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a
more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of
interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe
infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments,
India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth
rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% while adjusting the country's
external balance to the adverse price developments in the world markets. The
main elements of this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are
export promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implemen-
tation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward
a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs
for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and
capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization.
Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products,
metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other"
imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capi-
tal goods which historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of
critical importance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modern-
ization and expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was
the lower net import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in



-5-
1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a succssweal oil develop-
ment program that reduced import need. and allowed crude oil experts, which
totalled about UG$1.5 billion in 1983/84. Theme structural changos in the
balance of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels of
imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flown to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew BDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the I1F. In addition, India bor-
rowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and
suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has
been used for specific development projects in the public and private sector
(mostly foz petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and
shipping). india's favorable debt service position and the nature of its
borrowings, for project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments
support, enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.
This larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement
with the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen
to less than four mouths of import coverage in 1981/82.
Develoyment Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure - irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has
a wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-
endowed vith human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource
base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores,
but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30Z
higher than in the period 1975-80-a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth



-6-
Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobi-
lization by the public sector will fall short of the financing requirements of
planned public investment Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be
about 7% below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5% to 10% higher and public investment about 20Z lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
mance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
Governments. The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about
80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States'
will probably achieve only about 50% of their targets, due principally to
shortfalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectorn such as power,
transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real invest-
ment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, Indir's capi-
tal formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP in
1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much
of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large
and growing proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better plan-
ning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utiliza-
tion throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic
capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and
cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in
accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for
sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence o= oil imports
dropped from 63Z of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41Z in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commer-
cial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments conse-



-7-
quences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flown of conces-
sional assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural
sector and enormous investment requiremeuts for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrow-
ing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of
course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms.  Nevertheless,
with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the
growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both
foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate
of growth closer to 5.02 per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of grovth of
per capita income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts vould make a
significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2% per
annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction
in the infant mortality rate aud an increase in life expectancy, reflecting
larger availability of food aud health services. While this is a welcome
development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the
need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health and family planning
programs in a broad range of activities and services. These efforts are given
high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of
protected couples in the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80
level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its
population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to
retain the emphasis on the implementation of family plann'ing, health, education
and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line.  Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least
able to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually
reinforcing rather than substituting fo- each other. Major poverty programs
operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program
(MNP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at
increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of
productive assets or direct employment. The MNP, aims at broadening the provi-
sion of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capi-
tal of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a
vitally important commitment of the Government to address the needs of the
poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent



-8-
difficulties in implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need
for continued efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROWP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 82 loans and 165 development
credits to India totalling US$6,526 million and US$12,268 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,524 million has been
repaid, and US$6,207 million was still undisbursed as of September, 30, 1984.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1984 totalled US$171 million, representing a decrease of about
40 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1984.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$223
million, of which US$34 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and
US$34 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$98 million, US$91 million repre-
sents loans and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements
as of September 30, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efrorts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterpris's, primarily in the private sector, through its support of dev '1i-
ment finance institutions.  Recognizing the importance of improving tie aA.Lity
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant and consonant with
Government priorities as reflected in the Sixth Plan. Continuation of the
Bank's Group current priorities can be strongly justified on the basis of the
approach that is being taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan.
First, continued support of GOI's agricultural program is warranted. While
India has made significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will
have to be sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and
to contribute to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, we will continue
our support to irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricul-
tural extension and credit. Second, the review of performance under the Sixth
Plan confirms the high priority that should continue to be given to the expan-
sion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the
development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources. Accordingly, the Bank
will continue to supp--rt the development of the energy, transport and telecom-
munications sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain output in
both agricultural and industrial sectors. Third, support of urban development
and other GOI basic social services programs for the poor must also continue in



-9-
light of the growth in population which, despite successes in lowering birth
and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each year. Finally, the
major departure from our previous strategy will be a substantial increase in
the Dank's assistance to India's industrial development substantially aimed at
supporting COI's efforts in promoting greater efficiency and faster development
of the industrial oector.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970". However, India
continues to requlre a substantial level of forsign assistance both to offset
the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the
relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four
years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports
relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the
domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. Hovever, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimsted at about 15.2% in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's.  Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969170 the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and 37%, respectively, in 1983/84.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt Was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$9.6 billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion).
As of September 30, 1984, outstanding loans and credits to India held by the
Bank totalled US$17,271 million, of which US$6,207 million remain to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$11,064 million.



-10-
PART III - THE PETROCHEMICAL SECTOR
The Petrochemical Industry - An Overview
29.     General Characteristics.  The two main categories of petrochemical
raw materials are olefins (ethylene, propylene, and butadiene), produced
through the cracking of naphtha, gas oil, or natural gas; and aromatics,
(benzene, toluene, and xylene) derived from liquid fractions, generaly as
part of refinery operations. Although both olefins and aromatics are used
as "building blocks" to make polymers, synthetic rubber, detergents,
etc., the most important raw material is ethylene, which is used to
produce about one-third of all petrochemicals. Demand for petrochemicals
is usually stated in terms of derived ethylene demand and, by this
measure, world production of ethylene increased at an average rate of
11.2% per annum between 1960 and 1980.
30.     Olefins and aromatics are used to make six principal plastic
polymers: low-density polyethylene (LDPE); linear low-density polyethylene
(LLDPE); high-density polyethylene (HDPE); polypropylene (PP)-these four
being termed polyolefins; and polyvinyl chloride (PVC); and polystyrene
(PS). Plastic polymers are, in turn, used by the plastics conversion
industry to manufacture end-products with applications in virtually every
sector of the economy. Thus, they substitute for increasingly scarce and
expensive traditional materials such as wood, metal, leather, glass, cork,
and natural rubber. In most cases, plastic substitutes tend to be
stronger, more resistant to corrosion, more easily fabricated, and less
expensive than similar items made from natural materials. In addition,
their manufacture requires significantly less energy than that needed for
competing traditional products-the energy savings range from about 30X in
the case of polyolefin packaging films used in lieu of paper products to
more than 80Z in the case of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes used in lieu
of cast iron pipes.
31.     Since the crude oil price increases of 1973 and 1979, natural gas
has become the preferred feedstock for the production of petrochemicals in
most situations. The choice of feedstock, however, is dictated by
availability. Ethylene is produced from natural gas principally in the
United States, the Middle East, and Canada, where supplies of natural gas
are relatively abundant. In Latin America, Eastern and Western Europe,
and Japan, ethylene is produced almost solely from naphtha or gas oil 1/.
In 1980, the United States, Western Europe, and Japan, the three largest
1 Naphtha and gas oil are by-products or "cuts" of the primary distil-
lation of crude oil.



-11-
petrochemical producers, together had nearly 802 of the world ethylene
production capacity. Because petrochemical producto can be utilised in a
wide variety of ways, the value added to a barrel of crude oil, or its
equivalent in gas, is several times greater when it is used as petrochemi-
cal feedstock than when it is used as fuel.
32.     World ConsumXtigon  Production and Price.  Between 1970 and 1983
the world consumption of polyolefins increased at an average rate of 8.8S
per annum, from 8.5 million tons to 25.3 million tons. Plastics consump-
tion over the last ten years has grown at a faster rate (1t4 per annum) in
the developing regions than in developed areas (52 per annum).
Nevertheless, at the end of 1983, developed countries accounted for a
significant, though declining, 69% of total demand. The Bank expects
future world demand for polyolefins to grow from 25.3 million tons in 1983
to 35 million tons in 1990; the average rate of growth is forecast at 3.5Z
per annum in developed countries and 7.2Z in developing countries.
Between 1990 and 1995, total growth is expected to grov at a slover pace-
about 3Z per annum.
33.     Total production capacity world-wide of polyolefins increased by
an annual average of more than 7.52-from 12.5 million tons in 1970 to
31.7 million tons in 1983. However, market constraints and capacity
additions occasioned by overly-optimistic industry expectations have kept
plant capacity utilization at an average of about 74Z during the past
decade. This overcapacity coupled with the virtual stagnation in the
demand for polyolefins during the period 1980-82 (due primarily to the
worldwide recession), has triggered a rationalization within the industry.
As a result, small (mostly naphtha-based) uneconomic units have had to
close down, some existing plants have been modified to allow the produc-
tion of a wider range of products while others have been rtresmlined to
improve capacity utilization. In the light of this capacity rationaliza-
tion and increased demands in 1983 and 84, average industry capacity
utilization rates reached 832 in 1984 and are expected to rise to about
901 ovex the next few years.  Future polyolefin production capacity should
increase at a rate of 2.5Z per annum from 1983 to 1990, compared with a
projected demand growth of 52 per annum.
34.     Demand for polyolefins is expected to increase considerably from
current levels as the international economy improves.  World demand and
supply are expected to come into balance in about 1986 for PP,and 1990 for
EDPE, LDPE, LLDPE. A global supply deficit of nearly 1.5 million tons of
polyolefins is projected by 1990. This deficit will increase to 6.9
million tons in 1995 and will require the creation of substantial new
production capacity.
35.     The considerable short-term fluctuations in polyolefin prices that
have occurred reZlect market conditions and feedstock prices. After the
1981 and 1982 price slump caused by the world recession and the excess
capacity of polyolefins, prices recovered in 1983 and early 1984 up to
US$890, US$79O, aud US$900, per ton for LDPE, EDPE, and PP, respectively,
but were still below the levels at which a reasonable return on new



-12-
investment can be obtained. Future price levels will depend on the
production costs of efficient producers when demand and supply are in
equilibrium.l/ For evaluation of the proposed project, equilibrium prices-
-the prices prevailing at the time demand outstrips supply-are calculated
to be US$1100 and US$1250 per ton for LDPEILLDPE/1DPE and for PP in con-
stant 1984 dollars, respectively, and were derived by examining the long-
term marginal costs of production of efficient suppliers and assuming that
prices would prevail at that time which would permit those suppliers to
achieve a 15-20% rate of return before tax on new investments. The sen-
sitivity of the project economics to changes in prices is shown in paras
66-67 below.
The Indian Petrochemical Industry
36.     India's industrial sector is large in absolute terms, highly
diversified, and capable of manufacturing a wide range of consumer and
capital goods. Manufacturing accounted for 16.3Z of GDP in 1982-83.
Within the intermediate goods subsector, the production of chemical
products has grown at an average rate of 6.7Z per annum between 1970 and
1982 (compared with 3.41 per annum for the iutermediate goods sector as a
whole and 4.1% per annum for total manufacturing output). Thus, its share
of total manufacturing output increased from about 13% in 1970 to more
than 18% by 1982.
37.     The production of basic petrochemicals in India began in 1966 with
the establishment of a small ethylene cracker of 20,000 tons per year
(tpy) capaciry. In 1973, production increased considerably with the
establishment of a large aromatics plant at Baroda in Gujarat State; this
plant is owned and operated in the public sector by the Indian
Petrochemicals Corporation, Ltd. (IPCL). This was followed in 1978 by the
commissioning of an integrated olefins production facility vith an
ethylene production capacity of 130,000 tpy and associated downstream
plants, all owned and operated by IPCL. Both private (about 40Z of
estimated total production in 1984-85) and public sector (60Z of total
production) polyolefins plants in India are currently operating at high
capacity utilization rates, averaging about 110 in the private sector and
95% in the public sector. When facilities currently under construction
are included, India-s present capacity for the production of polyolefins
totals approximately 200,000 tpy, which constitutes about 0.6% of world
production capacity. Some existing production units in the private sector
are old and inefficien-. A number are expected to close down as the
naphtha feedstock procLas becomes uneconomical or the plant becomes too
old to warrant renewal. The remaining plants will be able to compete,
price-wise, with the proposed project, since all plants are old enough
that their production costs are no longer burdened with debt repayments.
1!    Equilibrium is assumed at 90% capacity utilization in developed
countries and 85% in developing countries.



-13-
India's Develonment Strateml in the Sub-Sector
38.     The Government believes that there is significant scope for
promoting the production and use of petrochemical products in India, and
considerable economic and social benefits are to be derived therefrom. In
recognizing this, the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) contained a decision
to accelerate plastics production and consumption and the Seventh Plan
(1986-90) endorses that decision on the basis of a number of factors: the
offshore gas and oil reserves in the Bombay High and South Bassein areas
assure India of a large supply of natural gas vhich is now the preferred
petrochemical feedstock (these large supplies vill enable India to estab-
lish optimally sized petrochemicals production facilities which is among
the most economic means of utilizing gas resources); the energy content of
most plastic end-products is considerably lower than that of competing
products made from traditional materials and the Government recognizes the
increasing role of petrochemical products as substitutes for traditional
ray materials such as steel, cement, vood, glass, and non-ferrous metals,
which are often imported and are becoming more costly or more scarce;
there is a large, untapped market with high benefit/cost ratios for
agricultural, industrial and domestic applications of plastics in India:
and there are also significant social benefits to be derived from the use
of plastics in providing low-cost shelter, household goods and footwear to
a large segment of the population. Furthermore, the plastics processing
and recycling field is an active and labor-intensive small-scale industry
totally operated in the private sector with significant potential for
further development and employment creation.
39.     Current Government policy encourages both private and public
ovnership in all phases (primary and secondary) of petrochemical
manufacture. Before GOI established its aromatics complex in 1973 and its
ethylene cracker complex in 1978, the entire petrochemical industry in
India was privately owned. GOI's decision to place the proposed project
in the public sector (with which the Bank agrees) recognizes the scarcity
of private financing for a vorld-scale petrochemical complex in the
present context of India's capital markets, and reflects its desire to
establish the project as quickly as possible given the need for optimal
utilization of India's natural gas resources. In addition, it has taken
into account the demonstrated efficiency of Indian Petrochemicals
Corporation Limited (IPCL) in project construction, production, marketing
and distribution. The private sector will play a complementary role in
the proposed project through the investment of approximately US$400 mil-
lion for the expanaion of manufacturing plants in the Bombay area and the
development of the downstream secondary plastics conversion capacity.
40.     Demand and Supply Proiections  Per capita consumption of polymers
in India grew at an average rate of 14% per annum between 1965-66 and
1983-84. Nevertheless at 0.45 kg per year, it remains among the lowest in



-14-
the world. 4 Because plastics have significant economic and technical
advantages over competing products in a wide range of applications, they
are likely to penetrate the markets held by competing products even
further. The base case demand forecast projects an 1lZ annual grovth rate
from 1983-84 to 1992-93. The estimate of the future supply-demand balance
takes into account production from existing petrochemical facilities and
planned future expansions, including the proposed project. According to
this forecast, demand exceeds supply for all project products (LDPE,
LLDPE, HDPE, PP) in all years.
41.     Export Potential and Nanyower Requirement  The plastics conversion
industry in India processes polyolefins into final products. It has growa
rapidly since 1970 and at present employs about 100,000 workers in more
than 7,000 separate processing units. If the conversion industry is to
handle the additional output from the proposed project, it will need to
expand further by 1990 and employ about 66,000 more workers. A number of
private and public sector organizations throughout India, including plas-
tics manufacturers themselves, provide training and technical assistance
to the processing industry. These various programs should be coordinated
to provide a unified basis for manpower development in the future. The
Bank has discussed with GOI the need to establish, together with the
training institutes, plastics producers, the processing industry, and the
Government, a small unit to act as a clearing house for information on
technical developments, provide technical assistance, coordinate training
at the national level, and pursue an information dissemination campaign.
To meet this need, GOI would establish by April 1, 1986, and thereafter
maintain, a training and technical assistance unit (Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement).
42.     India exports plastics end-products for use in the consumer and
industrial sectors. Thus far, exports have been modest, reaching about
US$61 million during 1980-81. This volume of exports has been achieved in
the absence of any major incentive programs or institutional support to
the processing sector. India has a comparative advantage in the produc-
tion of plastics for export because of its favorable geographic location
with respect to its primary customers (the USSR, UAE, Nigeria, Kuwait,
Bangladesh, Saudi Arabia, and Hong Kong), the availability of technical
know-how, and low labor costs. To exploit this advantage and develop
India's substantial export potential, GOI would carry out, by December 31,
1985, a study of the export market potential for selected finished
products, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and shall consult
with the Bank on the implementation of the findings of the study (Schedule
4 to the Loan Agreement).
43.     Pricing in the Petrochemicals Sub-Sector.  The present Government
policy allows each petrochemical plant to set its own prices. Current
1/ Polymer consumption in Korea, Brazil, and Portugal by contrast, is
19.2 kg, 7.7 kg, and 17.4 kg per year, respectively.



-15-
ex-factory prices are higher than international (CIF, border) prices owing
to the unusually depressed international prices and the historical use of
high-priced naphtha in India as the basic feedstock. Customs duties on
imports have been set periodically by the Government both to raise
revenues and to provide protection to domestic producers, other than IPCL,
whose costs have remained high because of their sa'l size.  Customs
duties are generally set at levels that equalize landed prices of imports
and ex-factory prices plus excise duties. However, because international
prices have fluctuated considerably in response to changes in world demand
and supply, landed prices of imports in recent years have differed sub-
stantially from domestic ex-factory prices plus excise duties.  As inter-
national prices rise to their equilibrium levels through the 1980s and
domestic prices continue to be positively influenced by the efficient
operation of India's larger plants, including the proposed project, the
economic climate will support GOI initiatives to allow tariff levels to
fall.
44.     As the proposed project will be the largest single petrochemical
producer in the country, it will have a significant influence on the
domestic prices of petrochemicals. The project will enable India to have
a highly competitive source of polyolefins for the first time and will
make it possible for the downstream conversion industries to produce
low-cost, and low-energy-using plastic products for the local market. It
is important that this large market be developed efficiently and that
pricing and taxation policies do not inhibit the preproduction market
development phase or the production phase.   GOI has recognized how cru-
cial this matter is and has commissioned the Bureau of Industrial Costs
and Prices (BICP) to carry out, by March 1986, a study of the future
alternative for pricing, fiscal and trade policies for petrochemicals and
their substitutes in India under terms of reference which are acceptable
to the Bank. Assurances have been received that the Government will take
into account the Bank's comments in undertaking the study and that it is
committed to ensuring that, prior to commissioning of the petrochemical
complex, the domestic industry is efficient and competitive and will
implement appropriate recommendations in an adequate timeframe. Further,
it will refrain from taking any action which would unduly inhibit the
development of the local market (Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement).
Bank Group Involvement in the Petrochemicals Sub-Sector
45.     The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first operation in
the India's petrochemical sub-sector. The IDA-financed Hazira Fertilizer
Project (Credit 1125-IN, October 1981) is also designed to use natural gas
from the Bombay High and South Bassein gas fields as feedstock. Both
projects support the Government's strategy for maximizing the utilization
of the country's burgeoning natural gas resources. The Hazira project
finances the construction of a fertilizer -anufacturing facility in the
State of Gujarat designed to produce about 1.3 million tpy of urea.
Construction is proceeding on schedule, and the facilities are expected to
begin operating in late 1985. As part of the Bank's continuing support of
the Government's gas utilization plans, additional projects in fertilizer



-16-
production and distribution, and LPG marketing and distribution systems
based on natural gas feedstock are under consideration.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.     The project was initially appraised in October-November 1982, and
post-appraised in July-August 1984. A report entitled, "Staff Appraisal
Report: Maharashtra Petrochemical Project" (No. 4467-IN, dated
February 15, 1985) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. in January 1985.
The Government of India and IPCL were represented by a delegation coor-
dinated by Mr. P. Singh, Director, Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance.
Proiect Description. Sectoral StrateRv. and Rationale for Bank Involvement
47.     The Government has announced its intention to improve the industry
sectoral environment. Inter-alia, it is calling for the design of a
policy framework which would take account of the need to shift from
administrative controls to market controls in the recognition that many
sub-sectors would benefit from increased competition in terms of enhanced
productivity, quality and reduced costs and a strengthening in the
country's balance of payments. In the petrochemicals sub-sector
specifically, the Bank, through its involvement in this project, is sup-
porting the Government in these efforts. The proposed project will be
India's first petrochemical complex to be based on natural gas as its
feedstock and will approximately double the production of petrochemicals
in India. Thus, it will play a prominent role in furthering the
Government's strategy for developing India's petrochemical sector that
involves (a) establishing large-scale plants of international size and
thereby achieve cost competitiveness; (b) meeting the demand for
petrochemical products (which is expected to grow rapidly); and
(c) expanding the development of the downstream, privately-owned, plastics
processing industry. The project will substitute for imports of both
thermoplastics and competing finished products and thus will also save
foreign exchange. In supporting the project, the Bank has played, and
will continue to play a significant role in helping to define and develop
an improved strate-y for the future development of India's petrochemical
sector. It is also helping to address major sectoral issues, specifically
pricing and tariff policies, market development, export promotion,
capacity expansion and training.
48.     The petrochemical complex vill be located about 120 km south of
Bombay, near the village of Nagothane in Maharashtra's Raigarh District
(See Map 16882R). The site was chosen by a Government-appointed committee
from among six potential locations because it offers an optimal solution
to the following site selection criteria: (i) reasonable proximity to
natural gas supplies and to the merchant ethylene market in Bombay; (ii) a
sparsely populated area where the adverse social and environmental effects



-17-
on the existing population should be minimal; (iii) consistency with the
Maharaahtra State Government's policy of encouraging industrial develop-
ment in the most backward areas of the State; and (iv) the availability of
abundant water supplies and necessary transport facilities. The 567 ha of
land required for the project are being acquired and the 290 families are
being resettled according to the provisions of the Maharashtra
Resettlement of Project Displaced Persons Act, 1976, vhich is acceptable
to the Bank. Physical possession of all land for the project is a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed project (Section 6.01, Loan
Agreement).
49.     The petrochemical complex will have an initial production capacity
of 300,000 tpy of ethylene and 63,000 tpy of propylene. Approximately
50,000 tpy of the ethylene will be sold to existing private sector plas-
tics producers in the Bombay area. The remainder vill be processed within
the project to produce 80,000 tpy of LDPE, 135,000 tpy of LLDPE and EDPE,
60,000 tpy of PP, 50,000 tpy of ethylene glycol (EG) and 5,000 tpy of
ethylene oxide (EO). These intermediary products will then be sold to the
privately-owned secondary manufacturing plants located throughout India.
The principal facilities include the main process plants, feedstock,
utility and infrastructure facilities, and offsite and general facilities.
50.     Feedstock. Utilities, and Infrastructure Facilities
(a) Gas Suvplv. The volume of C2/C3 (ethane/propane) gas frac-
tion required as feedstock for the project will be supplied from the
Bombay High and South Bassein fields. So that project requirements can be
met, the Oil and Gas Natural Commission (ONGC) has agreed to establish
additional facilities fet C2/C3 separation at the existing LYran terminal.
GOI would take adequate measures to ensure that the offshore gas develop-
ment plans are carried out in a time frame consistent with the require-
ments for the supply of associated and free gas to the project and that
physical facilities for feedstock separation and supply to the project
shall be established (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement). Furthermore,
Indian Petrochemicals Corporation, Limited (IPCL) would, by June 30, 1988,
enter into long-term supply contracts satisfactory to the Bank, for the
supply of feedstock and fuel gas for the project (Section 3.04, Prrject
Agreement).
(b) Utilities and TransDort The petrochemical complex will
require about 15 million gallons of water per day under arrangements
agreed with the Naharashtra Government and with the Maharashtra Industrial
Development Corporation (MIDC), which is the State organization respon-
sible for the creation of industrial estates and the provision of
utilities and infrastructure facilities to these estates. The project
power supply arrangements include a captive 73 MW of generating capacity.
To provide for balance requirements and to serve as a necessary backup,
IPCL will make suitable arrangements with the Maharashtra State
Electricity Board for the additional supply of 20 MW of power from the
Kondalgaon Station to ensure steady and uninterrupted service. To connect
the project site with the Bombay-Goa highway, a new road and bridge access



-18-
will be constructed. Indian Railways is currently constructing a line
through Nagothane village to provide a rail link with Bombay. A deep-
vater jetty has been completed about 50 km from the project site, and will
be used for receiving heavy consignments, and the road link from the jetty
to the project site is being upgraded by the State Government to handle
heavy loads. IPCL would make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
the appropriate agencies and authorities for the provision of adequate and
timely supply of water and power and adequate transport infrastructure
facilities for the complex (Section 3.05, Project Agreement).
Environmental and Safety Considerations
51.     So that any adverse effects on the surrounding environment will be
minimized, contaminants in the effluents and air pollutants from the
project will be treated in accordance with the appropriate Indian stand-
ards which are acceptable to the Bank. Following treatment, liquid
effluents will be disposed at a safe point in the sea. IPCL will imple-
ment and operate the project in accordance with environmental and safety
standards satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.06, Project Agreement) and
assurances have been received that qualified consultants will carry out a
Safety Audit prior to commencing the project in close consultation with
the Bank.
Proiect ManaRement and Implementation
52.     The project will be owned and operated by the Indian Petrochemical
Corooration Limited (IPCL), an existing public sector company incorporated
in March 1969 under the Indian Companies Act of 1956. IPCL is registered
in the State of G-ujarat and its head office is located in Baroda. It is
managed by a Board of Directors-appointed by the Government of
India-that has extensive povers to conduct the company s affairs. The
projecL will be implemented and managed by a separate division within
IPCL. The Division's head, a Director in the Board of IPCL, will report
to the Company-s Chairman and Managing Director. Duxring the implementa-
tion phase, the Division head, acting under the title Executive Director
(Project), will be assisted by a General Manager (Project) and a Chief
Financial Controller (Project).
53.    TILe Executive Director (Project) and the General Manager (Project)
have already been identified and appointed. Appointment of the Chief
Financial Controller (Project) is imminent. These three key positions are
endo-wed with sufficient executive powers to ensure the efficient execution
of the Project. In the event of a vacancy in any of these positions, IPCL
will provide the Bank the qualifications and experience of the proposed
nominee prior to making appointments to these positions (Section 3.06,
Project Agreement). The project team will include about 75 senior staff
members at the peak of construction activities. When the project is fully
operational, it will directly employ about 3,000 persons, including 1,025
supervisory staf%  No difficultie-s are expected in attracting and retain-
ing appropriately qualified staff.



-19-
54.     The foreign project-related services envisaged for the project
consist of the provision of process technologies, basic engineering, and
supervisory assistance for the main gas cracker unit and the downstream
plants. The project will use the latest proven techrologies available and
the license agreements provide for the exchange of information between
IPCL and the licensors on improvements in technology. The procedures used
in the selection of the process technologies and associated foreign con-
sultancy services conformed to Bank procedures and their costs would be
financed under the Bank loan.
55.     Engineers India Limited (EIL) will be the General Contractor for
construction of the petrochemical complex. With assistance from the
licensors, it will be responsible for detailed engineering, procurement
services, construction  tpc-niiion and complete project management.  To
carry out the work, EIL will form a full-time project task team headed by
an experienced senior project manager. A resident construction manager,
reporting to the senior project manager, will head the site construction
team and supervise and manage the construction subcontracts. These arran-
gements are similar to those that have been successfully carried out by
IPCL and other large industrial firms in India in implementing and commis-
sioning large, complex projects using EIL services. The selection of EIL
is acceptable to the Bank and the cost of its services will be eligible
for Bank financing. All process units are expected to be mechanically
completed in September 1989 and commercial operations are expected to
start by the end of December 1989.
Market Development
56.     Over the last five years, IPCL, the largest petrochemical producer
in India, has built up an extensive and highly efficient marketing network
for polymers and is well placed to handle the proposed project output,
which will approximately double the current domestic production of
polymers. Although the Bank's demand forecast for polymers is considered
conservative and achievable, this demand potential will not be realized
unless an active marketing effort is launched to develop new end-use
applications for plastics, and to encourage the increased use of plastics
products to replace traditional goods. However, the current domestic
production of polymers in India is fully absorbed and, in order to gener-
ate demand at the higher level, the market development effort required
during project implementation will have to rely on significant imports of
polyolefins over the next five years until the proposed project begins
production in late 1989.  Such market development efforts will be based on
imports of the type and grade of polyolefins to be manufactured by the
project, and would provide the necessary impetus to the plastics conver-
sion industry to undertake the investments necessary by 1988 to fully
process the project's expected output.
57.     In recognition of the importance of market development prior to
project commissioning, GOI would make available to IPCL the necessary
foreign exchange, import licenses and other facilities required by IPCL to
carry out said import program (Section 3.04, Schedule 4 to the Loan



-20-
Agreement). The Bank will provide an amount of US$90 million (repre-
senting approximately 202 of the costs of the imported products) to help
finance, througb 1989, imports of LDPE, LLDPE, RDPE, and PP, under arran-
gements satisfactory to the Bank as to the level of such imports. The
US$90 million vould be disbursed in agreed annual tranches following the
Bank's review and agreement of IPCL's annual market development plans.
Accordingly, IPCL would, by January 31 each year, furnish to the Bank its
market development plan for the following fiscal year and shall implement
said program in such form as shall be agreed upon between the Bank and
IPCL (Section 2.07, Project Agreement). IPCL's market development efforts
vill concentrate on the use of plastics in agriculture, irrigation, and
water management, particularly vhere cost/benefit ratios are high and
there is great potential for market growth. An established high-level
national committee is emphasizing development and promotion of plastics in
these fields, and IPCL will coordinate its activities with this group in
planning future marketing strategies.
Proiect Costs and Financing
58.     Total cost for the petrochemical processing complex is estimated
at US$1697 million. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at
US$651 milliolL, or about 39Z of project costs. Physical contingencies
were calculated at un average rate of 10% of base cost, and are considered
adequate in view of the highly detailed methodology used in estimating
project costs. Price contingencies, which total 27% of the base cost and
physical coutingencies, were calculated on the basis of annual escalation
rates of 8Z in 1983-84, 3.5% in 1984-85, 8% in 1985-86, 9% for the yeesrs
1986-87 and 7.5% for 1989-90.
59.     The proposed Bank loan will provide US$210 million for financing
equipment and engineering services for the petrochemical processing
complex, and US$90 million for financing imports of plastics for the
pre-production market development component. The US$210 million repre-
sents approximately 12Z of the cost of the petrochemical facility and 32%
of the foreign exchange costs of the complex. The Bank loan will be made
to GOI for 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the standard, variaole
interest rate. The Government will onlend US$210 million to IPCL under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement at an interest rate of not less than 13.25% per
annum, with a repay,ent- period of 15 years, including 6 years of grace.
The repayment terms reflect the lengthy start-up period for such large
projects and IPCL's debt servicing capacity after production commences.
The 13.252 interest rate should remain positive in relation to domestic
rates of inflation, which are not expected to exceed 9X annually in the
near future. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between IPCL and
GOI on terms satisfactory to the Bank and physical possession of all land
required for the petrochemical complex will be conditions of effectiveness
of the Bank loan (Section 6.01, Loan Agreement). The US$90 million to be
used for preproduction imports purchases will be channelled from GOI to
IPCL, which will repay the amounts to the Government as disbursements
against imports are effected.



-21-
60.     In addition to the US$210 million Bank loan for the petrochemical
complex, US$642 million of debt financing for the complex will be provided
by GOI, supplemented by financing from domestic financial institutions and
foreign exchange loans. Suppliers' credits, official development
assistance, and comercial foreign exchange loans are currently bein'
considered for the foreign exchange portion of the debt financing (amount-
ing to U8$441 million). Equity financing of US$845 million vill be
provided by IPCL (US$200 million) through internal cash generation in the
first two yeats of the gas facility's partial operation (US$145 million),
and by GOI (US$500 million).
Procurement and Disbursement
61.     Equipment financed by the Bank loan vill be procured by interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines, except for equipment proprietary to the design process, items
essential to the efficient and timely execution of the project. These
items may be procured through Limited International Tendering (LIT) from
qualified suppliers from at least three Bank member countries, according
to lists of goods which have been agreed vith the Bank in an aggregate
amount of not more than US$26.5 million equivalent. Furthermore, small
packages costing less than US$200,000 each will also be procured using
these LIT procedures in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$5 million.
For bid evaluation under ICB, qualified local suppliers of goods shall
enjoy a preference margin of 15Z or the applicable customs duty, whichever
is less. Preproduction imports of plastics for market development
financed by the Bank loan will be procured in economic shipping lots in
accordance vith the Bank's ICB procedures modified to permit bidding by
telex, with a validity period of 10 days and provision that, if in IPCL's
judgement, procurement must be postponed, fresh bids may be called at an
appropriate time. This procedure is in consideration of the very volatile
market situation prevailing in the commodities market. Disbursements for
this project component will be phased over the period through September
1989 under drawdown arrangements agreed with the Bank. Annex IV sum-
marizes the procurement arrangements for the project. Funds made avail-
able to the project from cofinancing sources will be used to finance
equipment and foreign engineering costs in accordance with the respective
cofinancier's procurement procedures. IPCL and GOI financing will cover
the costs for the rest of the equipment, engineering, civil works, and
erection services, which are to be procured under local competitive bid-
ding procedures being used in India, which are acceptable to the Bank.
62.    The Bank loan of US$300.0 million will be used to finance US$180
million of equipment, materials, and spares; US$20 million of foreign and
local license and engineering services; US$90 million for pre-production
polyolefin imports; and US$10 million will be unallocated. Loan proceeds
will be disbursed against 10OZ of foreign and 100X of local (ex-factory'
expenditures for equipment, materials and spares, 100X of foreign expendi-
tures for engineering services and plastics imports. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by September 30, 1990, a disbursement rate that
is in line with the disbursement profile for similar projects in other



-22-
countries. Withdrawals in an aggregate amount of US$5 million may be made
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred after August 12,
1984.
Financial Asnetts
63.    A. mentioned above (para 44), pricing levels for the project's
products vill be determined in conjunction with a pricing and tariff study
to be conducted by BICP. Nevertheless, GOI would not take, or permit to
be taken, any action with respect to pricing of inputs and outputs that
would prevent IPCL from: (i) covering its costs, (ii) meeting its debt
service requirements, and (iii) earning a reasonable return on investment,
under efficient operations (Section 4.02, Loan Agreement).
64.     At the sale price levels assumed (para 35), project revenues, in
current terms, are expected to increase from about Rs 1 billion in 1989-90
to over Rs 8 billion in 1992-93, when project operations ar2 expected to
reach 95% capacity utilization. Operating profit is projected to increase
from Rs 178 million to Rs 2,598 million over the same period, so that the
expected loss of Rs 148 million in the first year of operations will be
turned into a net profit after tax of Rs 1,594 million in 1992-93. The
debt service coverage ratio is also expected to remain above 1.7, while
the debt-to-equity ratio will steadily decrease from 55:45 in 1989-90 to
28:72 by 1994-95. Thus, the project should remain in a secure financial
position and be able to pay substantial dividends. The Gover,ment's
equity investment of US$500 million should be fully recovered by 1996-97,
and the present value of net resource flows to the Government during the
project's economic life is estimated to be about Rs 5.2 billion (at a 12%
discount rate).
65.     To ensure satisfactory financial performance of the project, IPCL
will follow prudent financial practices, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, will: (a) ms.Lntain at all times a long-term debt/equity
ratio of 60:40 or better; (b) maintain a current ratio of at least 1.3 at
and after project completion; tc) not incur additional debt if by so doing
the projected debt service coverage ratio would fall below 1.4; and
(d) not prepay any debt if, as a result thereof, the current ratio were to
fall below 1.5 (Section 4.04 of Project Agreement).    IPCL will also
submit regular progress reports and financial statements on the project
within 30 days from the end of each reporting period and submit its annual
audited reports within six months from the ending of its fiscal year, in a
form satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.02, Project Agreement).
66.     The base-case financial rate of return (FRR) for the project is
estimated at 11.4%, and the project is not expected to encounter financial
difficulties. The relatively low FRR (compared with the economic rate of
return of 17.9%), results from the imposition of duties and taxes amount-
ing to Us$208 million-20% of the project base cost estimates. A 25Z
increase in product prices would increase the FRR to 16.9%. Conversely,
a 10% decline would reduce the FRR to 8%. The return would decrease from
11.4% to 9.8% if capacity utilization were to be reduced by 10%, but



-23-
estimates of demand for the project's product and IPCL's excellent perfor-
mance make this scenario unlikely. If feedstock prices were to increase
by 101, the FRR would be 10.62 which is acceptable. An increase of capi-
tal costs by 101 would bring the FRR down to 10.21. If, simultaneously,
feedstock prices and capital costs increased by 10X, and capacity utiliza-
tion dropped 10X, the FRR would fall to 7.9X, but these events are con-
sidered highly unlikely to occur simultaneously.
Economic Justification and Risks
67.     The base-case economic rate of return (ERR) is calculated at
17.92. It is most sensitive to fluctuations in product prices. If the
equilibrium international prices were not to prevail until 1995, 5 years
later than assumed in the base-case analysis, the ERR declines to 13%,
which is still acceptable. The ERR would remain at about 1OZ if the price
stayed at the current levels for the life of the project-implying a 331
drop below the base case. An increase in energy costs of 10 would cause
the ERR to fall marginally to 16.9%. This increase, given the cost struc-
ture of the proposed plant, is equivalent to a 201 drop in the price of
crude oil--to US$25/bbl., or its natural gas equivalent. If product
prices stay constant and if energy prices were to increase by 101 the ERR
wculd fall to a level of 92. The project will provide approximately
US$233 million average annually in foreign exchange savings). While some
60,000 new jobs will be created in the petrochemical complex directly and
in the downstream conversion industry, it is not possible to determine the
number of jobs that will be displaced by the use of synthetic fibres in
lieu of natural products-cotton, rubber, etc. In this context, however,
it is noted that not only is the project substituting for imports but also
demand for new products is being created and met under the project-
situations which will not displace existing jobs in India.
68.     The project is not expected to face any serious technical risks
because the technologies to be used are commercially proven and will be
supplied by internationally recognized process licensors. The risk that
the start-up of operations will be delayed is also considered minimal as
experienced IPCL project staff will be assisted by staff from the interna-
tional licensor firms ard other chemical subsector companies and thus will
be experienced in corstruction and start-up of similar complex projects.
A potential risk is that ONGC may be unable to provide adequate gas sup-
plies to the project when needed but this is not considered serious as the
project's feedstock requirements constitute only 31 of the expected
production from the Bombay High and South Bassein fields, and satisfactory
measures are being taken by GOI and ONGC to ensure adequate gas supply
arrangements.
69.     The most significant project risk is a market risk.  The project
will virtually double domestic production of thermoplastics, but it cannot
be assumed that domestic demand will rise to such levels unless measures
are taken to promote the demand potential. Hovever, the marketing risk
for the project is considered acceptable because of the high growth poten-
tial for plastics use in India, IPCL's Experience in marketing, and the



-24-
measures GOI and IPCL will take with respect to market development and
pricing (paras 56-57), especially with respect to the use of pre-
production imports.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and IPCL, and the draft Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
71.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and
IPCL and physical possession by IPCL of the land required for the
petrochemical complex would be conditions of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01, Loan Agreement).
72.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
73.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
February 26, 1985



AMNNE I
Page 1 of 5
TA   LE IS
INDIA                 - SOCIAL IDICATONS DATA SNRifT
INDlA-                             EPREnWc GROUPS (wElUITE  AVE9RWAUEJ
HOST                    (MOST RECENT ESTIMT) 
RECENT            IS INCUR             HIDER 2300
19600!    L9?d0b    RiSI"MAtL        ASIA A PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
A t T_I Sq. -)                    -
TOTAL                              3237.6    3267.6      3221.6
AGRICULTURAL                       1763.5    1780.5      1812.3
SP  R ciTA (Cus)                        60.0     100.0       260.0           278.6                  1091.2
-i     ouoN PM CAPITA
(RILOAMS O OIL EQUIVALENT)          79.0      113.0      153.0           272.0                   567.3
PUATIEN  M VITAL STATISTICS
FOPUIATION*MID-YRAR (THOUSANDS)    434349.0  547569.0   716985.0
(2                   1121AM POPULATION CE Or TOTAL)        16.0       19.6       24.1            23.7                    34.7
POPULATIONI PROCTt1NS
POPULATION IN 'EAR Z0O (WILL)                           994.4
STATIONARY POPULATION CHILL)                           1707.2              -
POPULATION HUEEIIH                                        1.7
POPULATION DENSM
PER SQ. Km.                       132.3      166.6      213.4           166.6                   261.9
PER SQ. KM. ACGI. LAND            246.6     307.5       387.1           345.5                  1735.1
POPULATION AM STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                          40.9       42.7       39.3            35.6                    39.0
15-64 YtS                          54.5      54.2       57.6            59.6                     57.6
65 AND A3OE                         4.6       3.1         3.1             *.3                     3.3
POPULATION GROT NATE t7)
TOTAL                               1.8        2.3        2.2             1.9                     2.3
UAN                                 2.5       3.3         3.9            4.1                      4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RtATE (PIE TMS)          47.7      41.4        34.2            27.7                    30.1
CRUMI DEATH PATE (PM THOS)           23.8      17.6        12.7            M0.3                     9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9       2.8         2.2             1.6                     2.0
FAMrLY PLANNING
ACCCPTORS. ANNUAL VENOUS)          64.0    3782.0      6826.0
USERS (Z Or MAD WMEN)                *        11.7       28.0              .                     52.7
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        98.0     102.D       101.0          112.3                    123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORS 41 OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0      91.0        86.0            97.7                   114.4
PRTINS (CAMS PER DAT)              54.0       50.0       46.0            56.3                    57.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0       15.0       13.0 Ie         14.9                    14.1
CHILD (AGCS 1-4) DULH RATE           26.2      20.7        11.0            9.3                      7.2
EALTH
LIFE EXP8CT. AT BIRTH (TEASM)        42.5      47.5        54.6           60.0                     60.4
rWANr noRT. M   (PM THOS)           165.0     139.0       94.0            63.8                    66.3
ACCESS TO SAIE MATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                                 .       17.0       33.0 /d         32.9                    37.0
URBAN                                        60.0        83.0 7r         70.9                    54.0
RURAL                                         6.0        20.0 7;i        22.1                    26.4
ACCESS TO EETA  DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATIO)
TOSAL                                 -       18.0       20.0 le         16.1                    41.3
URIAN                                ..      65.0        37.0 77         72.8                    47.4
RURAL                                ..        1.0        2.0 7r         4.6                     33.3
POPULATION PER PYSICXIA            4850.0    4390.0      3690.0 if      3464.2                   7749.4
POP. PEI NURSING PERSON           10980.0 I  7420.0      5460.0 7       4793.1                   2460.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL DED
TOTAL                            2180.0    1650.0      1290.0 If       1066.5                  10"4.2
URBAN                                ..        ..       370.0 7r        298.0                   651.2
RUIAL                                ..        ..    10610.0 77[       5"3.4                   2594.6
AIISSIONS PU HOSPITAL BD               ..        .                                                 27.0
AVECRAE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2        5.6        5.2 1Z 
uRN                                 5.2       5.6         4.6 7;.
RURAL                               5.2        5.6        5.3 T.  
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIEOO
TOTAL                               2.6       2.8
URN                                 2.6       2.6
RUlRL                               L6        2.8
ACCESS 70 ELECT. ( or OWELLINGS)
TOML                                 ..        ..
mL                                   ..        ..
RUA                                  ..         ..         .               ..



ANNEX I
Pa   2 of 5
llS-  0WC.L INDICATOSS DAA INm  _R
mST                      (MOST Ua       T RL
zK,ecENT LW   N                          MIlDW Xis
Igo&  197oik    ITAzhik          ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA I PACIFIC
ADJUSTED INROLID    RATIOS
PUINRYs  TOTA                        61.0       73.0       79.0             97.4                     102.0
MAIN                      80.0       90.0       93.0             110.5                    105.9
PUZALK                    40.0       56.0       64.0             83.7                     91.2
SZcONDATmn TOTSL                     20.0      26.0        30.0             35.9                     46.0
MALS                      30.0       36.0       39.0             44.6                      48.7
FUAI                      10.0       15.0       20.0             26.5                      43.1
VOCATIONAL (t oE WCONDAXR)              2.6       1.0         0.7 i            2.2                      17.5
PUPIL-URACNIER RATIO
TRIRY                                46.0       41.0       54.0             38.5                      31.3
SEONDY                               16.0      21.0          ..             18.7                      23.5
ADULT LlITRC  RATE tS)                 27.6      36.1        36.2             53.4                      73.9
PASSESZ CARS/THOUSAND POP               0.6       1.1         1.4 ^            0.9                     10.1
RADWO  ECEIVERS/TUOUAND PP               .9      21.5        43.6            112.1                    113.6
TV RBCUV3/SIDNOUSD POP                  0.0       0.0         1.7             15.7                       0. 1
NEXWSPAPER ("DAILY cENEAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
Pn  TIOUSAND POPLlATION              10.6       16.2       19.4 /h          16.2                      53.9
CINISA ANNA ATZT SDACECAPITA            3.2       6.2         3.7 ;            3.6                       3.4
:O  aM
TOT  LABO FORCE (THOIUS)           185951.0  219194.0   2P169.0
PaUS  (PIRCENT)                      30.7       32.5       31.8             33.3                      33.5
ACRICULTMS (PECENT)                  74.0      74.0        71.0             69.6                      52.2
INlUIJIUY (SPERcE)                   11.0       11.0       13.2             15.8                      17.9
IANTCIPATION RATZ (MRCEO)
TOTAL                                42.8      40.0        39.4             42.6                      3L7
NM                                   57.0       52.4       52.0             56.7                      30.9
FrNAIE                              2z3         26.9       25.9             29.8                      26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDC  RaTw                  1.1       1.1         1.1              1.0                       1.1
IRCORS  -X
PERCENT or PVATS INCOS
lIZ:ZCD BY
NIGHEST 5S or NOUSEHOLDS             26.7      26.3 A      22.2             22.2                      2L2
RICHEST 202 OIP NOUSEOLUS            51.7      48.9 A      49.4 4           48.0                      68.0
LOzEST 20S oF HOwsO                   4.1        6.7        7.0              6.4                      6.6
LOWEST 460SO Or ousRR                13.6      17.2 A      16.2 A           15.5                      15.5
RICeT   C
STDWSAIED ABSOLUTE POVERTY ICME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPTA)
URAN                                   ..         ..      13LO h           133.9                     18U.6
URAL                                   ..        ..       114.0            111.6                     152.0
ESTDUATD RATV  POVERTY INCOME
LEL (USS PER CAPITA)
u                                      ..         ..         ..               ..                     177.9
RuRAL                                  ,.         .          ..               ..                     164.6                         A
ESTIMATED POP. PlEw ABSOLUIE
POVTY NCOM LL (C)
URBN ".                                           ..       40.3             63.8                      23.4
RURAL                           ,       .         ..       50.7 4           51.7                      37.7
NOr AVAILULE
NOT APPLICAII
N O T E S
/ To   group averegem for aea  Indlcator are popwlclon.wUbted eritlttic seea. Coerep of eomntrUe amo  the
lndicatore depend on evalabillty of dat and fis not unifom
Ub nles otherule  noted, "Das for 1960" refor to ay yea betwee  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwen 1969 end
1971; and data for 'Maut Recent Etitee" betmen 1980 ad 1982.
/c  1977; /d 1976; i  1975; /f 1978;  a 1962  lb 1979; IL 196-65.
nE, 1936



ANISE I
_____________                                    ~~~~~~~~Page3 of 5
Nmess  stO%moa ml bees a  dugee lPM esomme  a.ereuei, geapi lb. -l1  oaskveelee as  Stee61le. Ce ell  Welm t. iSSd  hloeke lbeP as he tasImlmel;l
es-.inI. kgdme  lee tan1.  59 eleetdees ceilelel  Ns eamps. med mr dguises mails Is  ientemu   ao due. la do. en. gca110leee. mdcfl me
in eSh gibe, SN meeiiede  iMslee  lat,d uS aensutiee  sonlsis eels glteimm   e kis   Galie.
"at.0 miecee  gnawp a  SI) ushe edddm stum   gin  ci ets eel"' samtii a  Sit geniim sleep clubo macia bislk, aiegto Sodeem ohm elM asewi  cia .1 lbk
atise=55, gape i leeace teemK St  Igeieis  wm'p fleg, 1"lMle leam   kimlt Mirl            Ndle asajaslei to fleese Semalereet elieele esagelor eestr
elileel4eele  Is it.  c5.is  mIeN" be. vaieeee ad   pswleeue slnm"   ilek1llst sam ie,  esetOW  SSIseigro a  ideateM ab      degeeley ci elmw fteue lee
-eneam, gm deem Ia at"  Wsilmeot. lime it. *mien c esie at            .5 Iledesece apset - 1kh calee tilie  1 o 54c. tu leec   WPMen  cell  MNs he
emeervtedl to Fideal's erseil .1 a ed 04Ices I. alkie 1%es aise a slt ceete us dowrimes she ages  - Isles'sr a . glee- am nip dad
Seth Ibetedeqem.                                                              lliI.tgt     eet el  isiuSi hi fli. e pil-eSa
tflbeed lees dmIAa.                         e vv  INS                    O"afalpe 9"aeleq ppieeliela ss" degde b"e abl S wes5u
fllhgAj-ben elqleeelieuetesiil5piselema    iegaee aie palm                                                             is,pmui  en
d.94. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~aa.slee 1.1mpseS mesnmeSi  hteeglei ""S.
mn.aium.iu    eso pee melee selmusa -.MMietut eeti pt.,                              aslehkte Is poll. Si psimle egmeg  i  eglslus opsel Si
- -ecelCe acs  m-t  m -eld gm  eels Ills-Il belch                         eismtlllelee nValeft. heepleas ge "sebleebmee  wlferasel eeellsd
lIeU, 595. Wi 153 d.el.                                                            he seteesi am p"epele. Resebiie1eee peevdusg pilapelly  Easeslel
V.c ev as  mWUse. kdeel             I-plel   geni late0  belle Md
aW gseklemteal Ogieely  Ic uleora el eEl wetteas pee epese  sVAc.                  geesed a It-iedus  maw s dialee  leesfaiae
cu1. a ies 111sd..                                                                 auu.n L M*latmec  cssegmdssbseigs
"R. IM       I - as f My IClmtl,5 I                                                                 gcqSdpeeq.eips,  s e.ee
ils  esle.                                                                     ANae   as     Ie5gb   .le   esetsWlshee   Iee.s    etls5a   +e  iS jeui
ifleeee    e     at c    aiI  my ces eewettIsi61 .i dAe                Nw emino eels alef. A belisi    WNtW ic   me a  en   old  iesdel Om
en'  asicee  IS, IeM. us Ial deu.                                              Ielm tebsi  lie seasseesee Peepe.
Swiss pepicile  pisleesla  - es - mli!                  a-  el1ikE   g  Aisic  esiaw  ~Elnk
pew               4Ws  n aen a  aife milcllle Si feilIle                       lte.eumsea.   elSemle   epe                        emce  e
este. Pejegas psl.e   le sd "Iesf   t ne ails ci esistt                      ensedqp  wile.esI.816p--o-d-aa-l  ooe,a
..se rte  "L teabs Il.  dpesecp u -"Acub Isesle -eth emSy  pet      ~         Eddteee dcteOsl3jeegepbleet-pd e.-am
pecie. it.re   "'I.eee  is-I.ietses  ie madelsI  s.lta91 tal                   et ec,  ite,Siews  illmeelili
plsel"M psitess. SeI mal"B Is. Om- al          aM  ""' teen seehd.MENla4-14
abeee-A. clit1 Fasmtlgiae iselIlse S.mi lee pileel 515m.ad
iletIinaw    sa-ee Metec  e-  Si Eddd ee-gptla  OM etls
ices t.stm          ese e112  .en r-giwetS,flubf a-peufte ieiuIlSi              Issma             e  aSp mels  awsla   Seew
cusbe   letmLipmnmaaesa1                      tm    m                              ee1       a-i s1esienet l4EElde %             lees tied M eSI
us eesimc lm  eea es. S. n  tee   es uswit   s-pass.i 55 thegimitl sM                e  WeAeec  eees  sctlamegs.S'
remat ieiS  as lseasl    eetl   e   n   ess  sse-e    mppI sie ,lmlee a age01-                                    elm eI-iel eAld en. "
km   el tose fielseu  ailease  at et lm. speleeam le l  weekiq d   .yeabel   tee  eeu ONatImiF *f Vusse  m d-fine   C-ai
." tiEafat .1.  "ftse      e.k   pft " tusemiIa wwaasc lscen   MI salee           piet'se cemes  etaflsl. ""et -seak  stats's  l tioso   tat
asa    agls.                                                          is"a -a.     eat. -ll    ccC.5e1ec""'   psi teeecaf.  -1il  Weise  'salled Os
~jfJselj                                                                         ele  teod11  -Segiai ed. eile  I 5kme  aeess 
ss.t~.ei tiMt   sit=e     . Sit5  deg                                        el,slmeca tii l-mll-s  eldIe title -_ eusSiasa
Per1. ,.tla          jJi.    caS- Sc tI'clllacct  55                            1weeseas Slk  ase .~5 dv    sletlee Wdeni 51 neai S-m.
(yam  a  met - wims'se ci si-nec                       P                                   rt-boe 1 2%
-    -   Ii.  - 5%   -glueeel-bF teem i tat Le-*                 stplstiet   eisists.-
I.*lM le.     L'~1- as1s Wee.                                                  sawsemeceleImamusspi a  i's 1aeat  cisl
peamecWlasIA. lieS. -11111,  iee dute.                                             mails skiselmi liseet's. 
C-PEdt   ?'.      3 1- e -at deeet2. weseedced-eiSEWlE (e    msisiss   I  seenieSfs
eelts    -.   t  5I be                                                        eelgtS   e  hse  cens  e  ALIedVP Wstlseni U minetn
l y -                        -~~~  Ao1 i   bneaP,t mini ci capot         #5e dSi tl IIt do"e f-  leesg lin  scm s me. .ole                 -
Pe's.Imim.          ase -                                                                        41ieee. ti  Intala te detee-te -ma 
latePipe~es-eeieemi A c    1 m etflinP.e l - ..ceee  54.L meet              matev alec.                                        do." 
en 5 childd-eila   eal  empsetl a.0         Sesdd k    -"gosf-
fteeLtep' me timerall i-meal -eot eefted 19ma. ltee si
ehidemete  enciajeeestp           sed  "-e" eP~a Caem                                                       docstttam  Oeal wiEc.  eoAst' .igdeed
- A~ddd  .O. or.."nrd    . 'ddly if I "-: .I~ tealst-.  daiske.  lesas
em   ~~iiflP                                                             nestle, ISO. 5915 Sidgg  15.1W bee.
Ibseg c leCbeselspebls(11i ts    ee    e enact                                                  - limb lake ices m peigeeled 1W= .1 eet sI-Inea -a
sackllt wsdmcim c ld -ce  1.lctees.r Pibetla  arooe.m cm  S4SnIi5Ztrel- ant elste Iso- ane. esesati. best'  Silo
best m me5al age peibme pets sCeel lies-S. iWIO, Sige  555aoot Si SIgal  bee.Ve
BLM,,d1- lofeS,IuliAfsLinlmdted                  -     ced-   -4 .im-ui.swe- vetn. ns gou  Isel  morma IsGle91    1ee 1 mide5
5mev deaseele  S  e .bed MoolS  sc..  W     Is.     Aftct. w -!L It we           wea L"          etb. stear Si tale , wEssaoagdteli "ensteadeeleelp
der. isEtiatte       P Paleas-It  pa-em W. eieba5m. sl  teesd f                  - 145. li.S   51be    tsaha      lW    itest    '
ma see mamabe is ted e ceystettes l ma   amm                                                  ete5    assS    51 us c- afied ateec so
..gus "a  lgitteLs S s-Imsi,s  alie' -IT pea  -lad V-Emis                                              1  A  ."Psdn-C  Im..p0-
dW. beeseki  tallJWE -A). ld Si l             %  w"We,N."e.-   vs'ZWod ddwo   fl                                                  Eolgsa
sic                                   155% -  2INtode::!ier  Si..k                               U eGase  =we  3*d wemt a  peee  apecu
eels     Itlaus.    gem eMr  he maises.  h
flf gm "I -emlytsSe .0"O   b IM V- toeal eepp     sa 
ense  eepeg isd shalbe tsis  en- garwa Iteal a-esbileate    e    te_m  tentisasiedi see                                           w  mt
.E  1idL beau  los -Sis ttbc  Il,s. liii              b a P"51 de %.              weeseel ama rsa       a.Sestn  5.  ~     daidieea,se
sways al".4s. 1976                               talsct  1mmCaMus  a   Slas'sasset els
d-10  -   9-b"  d-i.   -   - atel puce405 918 His 1md's                 -        -feedl  AfsiA   Pk1.1   teem   us  4met  -as~t
as  C nab alma. c.  - as  m'.jcilt  ~           ~            1-   .4eboljledrdddePers         tep~as Lt"ee eel.t  Si to Sd sl
mIce  ly  Clel~  pseee  ale   -.1o.sis  E a ees emt                                                      Sasi ldlpet  Si Pejeats  -imt
toS.stel m  he eAbe  -~  Pes5te.mtnals.  k
te,1.al   aeeeemtwle       -aLe 5epbe ek tofa  -1-e 
a  p  a.Isas te tszt  ma 
.e  .e..a.  -ci3         -   - -d   -Toe.%                                                                 drl.Arat-                       w
-  a.  a-   *stse Sitecet)    ~W-b eSea wip                                                                          J-I"
esenism  'MI.le as-este  s-Isles,  kisstes itesme  me la
a~  saiis,l-F us s-ecidedt an   sen goad  -       sa  a   ann
Simsn b" =m-hem'll s-n- aml Saw ate sem Si-af 
aim     Seasd-odof



m 4 ef S
0CfC DWNAKW STA
1 pm CAWSSA Du uai Dm6260 !1
Um m    D        mC  Tu 1U219 bi.                                            ANPtA   Mtg OF Cgo=  (.         n t  ut 1eee il
9S31S$6-191560 1J60 1-it656  1565 1641911970  1970/71-1974?75  1975/76-1979168
MP at Muret f         lut-    I7.74   100.0                          3.7              3.6              3.7              2.9              4.1
Ore" Domestic xlumt                 41.53    24.6
00s watinue $ain                  32.12    22.3
Cbuont Leeust ksaes              - 3.37   - 2.3
Om.   87  23 AINCT                 f  in  !
VA     d   (at fator got)         l6mbor Fors  ,        .A  Pr Worker
N.              T        jxj    5f Natlos Avnu
Agriculturs                         51.7                35.1         171.7    70.6      25         so
1aedutw                            25.2                 23.5         21.6    12.9    1116         135
wicz  606 *41.0                  40.3    16. 5     1504       249
General Sowrt L/                                  Central Covernment
Re. Un.            S0                         Re. Un..            I ot COP
19s2/3         11982/83   -197/79-19M682      1 8         1952183    X97Bf75-1912/83
Curret Resipt                       333.34       20.3           19.5               175.61       10.7          10.3
IArrent _KPmituZOM                  340.09      20.7            19.0               1U.59        11.5          10.8
Cerre-t urplu/Dafit                -  6.75     - 0.4            0.5               - 12.98      - 0.8         - 0.4
Capital upedtour. n/                 131.23      *.0             *.1                95.13        5.8           5.7
31temu  Asdeitanc  ( set) d/          19.30      1.2            1.0
. CUMIT AND Pl3               1970/71  1975/76  1977/78  14!7/79  1979/SO  190/81  19U/2  19821S3 Ibruar  19S3 February 1934
311ion  ontetandiiiat    po perd
Iobs mad Quasi bY                    109.S   224.8   329.1   401.1   472.3   555.5   624.9   723.8             711.7          345.7
sh Credit to Government (Cet)        54.6   106.3 * 137.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   309.1   352.4              353.5          406.6
Need Credit to ceriel Seeter          3.6   156.2   212.2   255.3   310.1   363.5   430.5   504.5              487.7          576.4
(Percentag  or Index Numbere)                           Apr-rob 19B2/83 Apr-rob 1983164
_I0ey ad ques HAoY - A Z
of CDG                              27.3    30.3    36.7    41.1    44.1    43.6    42.0          4.o
Ibole   Price Inde:
(1970/71 * 100)                   100.0   173.0   135.8    185.8   217.6   257.3   281.4    288.6            2U8.1              314.0
Ame:   perenae cheeses lo
1boleaal Price Xedez                   7.7    -1.1      5.2      -       17.1    18.2       9.4      2.6         2.3                9.3
sh Credt to Govermt (net)             15.0    22.7    16.3    16.0    25.6    28.5    20.2          14.0        21.011             18.9 hi
_w  Crit to Omrdal Setor              19.4    22.7    12.6    20.2    21.5    17.2    15.4          17.2        15.5               17.9 hI
eI1ape Cepits UP estiste la at mSrkt" prices. UsIn  World Dank Atl" es thodology. bas. perlod 1979-1991.
othr -,e              to dollars in  hds table are at the aerna  exchange rate preaUing during the perlod covered.
bl QNick Ustiitee. Comma.leatitcal Orgnlatim.
Computed frm treed lin  of lIP at factor cost series, including on obhavatio  before first year and onm bobrvation after last year of
lsted peIod.
d/ World Jsk etimst  of st diehre          t of conceesionnl Did and NDS.
1Tnfer betes Comm  aid States havs been netted ot..
All les  _dednee    to thI   partie  he bees netted out.
Percentae ch_ee  from end-Ma    1982 to end-Wehrwy   1913.
Ptrcent    chng  free eed.Nwch 1933 to and-February 194.
ii Total Labor Force ad perceta   brekdown fur  19U1 Cema *?clud d-at  for Am=.



Fags 5 at 5
NZANCE oF FAWUTB                        1960/31   191/32   I9M2 SW 13Ji84t1            NIRCRADIS  IISS (AVERE 197fL1932/63) g
Exports of Good. _/                      8.504     6,519     5W001     3,444            Euiusweg Goa r!                 9J0       12
Imports of Goads S/                    -16.204  -15.500  -14.249   -14,412              Tem                             455        6
Tred. alanse                           - 7.700   - 64961   - 6,248   - 5,946           GC                               779        9
MNr (net)                                1,345       974       940       656            Clotbis                         573        7
LsAtmbr snd lssthsr Products   4J0         t
Ibsource  Solenco                      - 6,335   - 6,007   - 5.308     5,090            Jute Msaufscturas               333        4
Irnm Ore                        330        5
Interest Ineme  (n t) 3/                   600       236   -   415   -   6U             Cotton Textiles                 32Z        4
Net Trsnofsrs 1/                         2,771     2.316    13.49      1,790              r                              J6        1
V   ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tarbse                                                          3,649       46
Balanes ea Current Account             - 2.964   - 3.403   - 3MA74   - 3,948
Official Loaas 1 Crsnts                                                                 Total                         6,243      100
Gross Disburssnts                        2.6J1     2.570     3,086     3.441           MSTUl. DEUT, MARCH 31. 1983
Asortteatian                           -   700   -  674   -   701   -   763
US5 billion
Transaction with DI  (Cmt)               1.035       690     1.930    13295             Outstndiag ad Disbursd                    19.6
All Other Item o/                      -   367   - 1.5S1        12       531            Undisbursod                               11.1
Outstanding including Uadisbursed         30.7
Incease In Ibeerv-o (-)                   345     2.393   -   503   -   536
Graos Reserves (sad y er) p              6.859     4.461     4.964     5.500            DEBT SrLVICE RATIO POR 1932/83 3/ n       10.1 per cent
Net RAoeervo  (end year) aT              6.532     3.497     2.036     1.449
I13Ff/ID LENIUG. M11E 31.1 934 3/
Paul and Related HNteriaIs
U5$ millien
Iports (CPtrols)  /                      6.672     5.590     4.613     3.395                                                 US   ima
Outateading ad Disburoed            1.826     7.924
udadbarosd                          2.OB1     4.331
Outstedia  L-ludJia  Undisbursed   3.907    12.255
RATS or UCEAICE
Jun  1966 to mld-De_ber 1971       a  U0 O1.00 - Rs 7.50
Re 1.00 - US$0.13333
Kid-Deceber 1971 to ad-June 1972 a  USSI.00 - Re 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US00.137376
After aed-June 1972                :   loatig Rate
Spot Rats end-March 1963           :  US$1.00 - R  10.0301
Es 1.00 - SS50.0997
Spot Rate ad-March 1984            :  US$1.00      Re 10.7161
Bs 1.00 - US$0.0933
jt  Estimated
k/ Figure  gis. cover all investment Intcm  (net). Kajar paymsats are Interest on foreign los   sd charges paid to DIP.  d sjor receipts is
interet edsed on foreiga sesto.
i/  Figures sive. include workere' rttonces but exclude offica  grat  sistwe- mhiah is inluded within officiad loas aed grants, and
nan-reslsa  doposits uhih we Included withia all other it.
a/  Exclude mt use of VW credit.
Am ortizstion and interet paymats on foreic loam1 as a perceatmas of total carrest receipts.
Imcludes eh       rate adjusteats to the valuation of reserve  and finaning of isbl-nces in rupe  trade.
l/ cudiag gold.
i Nst of crude petrols  exports.
r/    cluding iran ad stel.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANRK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1984)
US$ million
t Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA jj     Undisburmed O
50 Loans/                                             2,164.0          -
93 Credits fully disbursed                                -        5,535.2           -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                                   30.0          8.15
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0          0.03
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -           24.94
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                     25.0          -           11.19
1335-IN    1977     Bombay Urban Transport               25.0          -            1.17
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          8.45
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0          1.65
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0          7.32
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -            2.62
720-IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0          1.52
728-IN    1977     Assan Agricultural Development        -            8.0          1.34
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0         52.65
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -            8.0          4.93
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -            1.72
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -            3.60
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6         37.38
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0         30.11
806-IN    1978     Jamu-Kashmir Horticulture             -           14.0          9.91
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5          8.40
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -           16.0          4.86
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0          -           15.10
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -          150.0         43.85
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0        141.11
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -          190.0         25.05
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           5.28
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -           27.0         14.06
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0          2.94
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -           30.0          0.83
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -            50.00
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0         10.71
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0         38.32
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply              -           48.0          6.72
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          4.45
925-IN    1979     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -           23.0          2.24
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II             -         210.0          42.74
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -          37.0           6.51
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                      -           20.0         16.07
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -          46.0          27.63



AtNNSX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
Ng.      Aiiroval        wuriose                        Ba.k        IDA 1/      UndisburEsed .
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -          32.0          19.48
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0          94.88
1012-IN    1980     Cashevnut                             -          22.0          16.11
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0         159,;7
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -          10.0           7.56
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -          56.0          17.76
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                 -          54.0          30.32
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0          49.09
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                   100.0         -             5.37
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0         -            25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                 -         225.0         113.52
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         -            20.31
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                     -          35.0          14.38
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                     -          83.0          42.64
1082-IN    1981     Nadras Urban Development II           -          42.0          19.49
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation                -         140.0          85.73
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII               -         314.0          89.58
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -          54.0          37.68
1125-IN    1981     Hasira Fertilizer Project             -         400.0         117.86
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -          23.0          13.92
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -          28.0          17.08
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -          37.0          28.05
1146-ID    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0          70.25
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II        -         400.0         273.61
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -         220.0         154.99
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -            18.15
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -          29.0          19.92
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -          25.0          15.13
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                           150.0         -            57.70
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0         -           269.54
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                             190.0         -             0.43
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -             6.0           4.69
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0         -            96.43
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5         -           274.48
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -          60.0          30.57
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -          72.0          60.11
1286-IN    1983     Ja--u/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -          33.0          24.97
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -           -
Irrigation II                      -          31.0          19.65
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -         127.0         105.96
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5         -           140.52
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modezaization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -           197.04



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellation.)
Credit   Year of
No.      AyDrov al       PurDose                        Bank         IDA il     Undisbursed _
1299-IN    1983      Railvays Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -          200.0        177.00
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development      139.3          -           133.71
r.   1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0        114.38
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II              -          101.0         89.79
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Pover          -          170.0        148.38
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4          -          156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III       -          147.0        132.10
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization         -           32.0          26.95
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission         250.7          -          250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -           45.89
2329-IN    1983     Nadhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1          -           24.04
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                  -          105.0         83.20
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -           31.0         29.37
1426-IN    1984     Population III                        -           70.0         66.23
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry             -           27.)         25.57
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0                     249.38
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                      151.0                     150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum              242.5                     241.90
2415-IN    1984     Nadhya Pradesh Fertilizer           203.6                     203.09
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                           125.0        117.38
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Nedium Irrigation                        172.0        164.14
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification*           280.7                     280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Pover*           300.8                     300.80
Total                                   6,526.3    12,268.3
of which has been repaid              1.350.8      - 173.0
Total noW outstanding                   5,175.5    12,095.3
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -           -
Total nov held by Bank and IDA j         5,175.5    12,095.3
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,712.69    3,494.35
.i] IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
O  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1984.
jI Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX 1I
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
YLelamr                  Company                      Loan     Ecuity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Nahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                        6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0          -       38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited            15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Naga.-iuna Signode Limited             2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited               1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8         -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.5        -       15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.1        -        8.1
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       3.7         -       3.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        210.7       12.1    222.8
Less:   Sold                         53.0        3.4     56.4
Repaid                       34.0        -       34.0
Cancelled                    33.0       1.4      34.4
Now Held                     90.7       7.3      98.0
Undisbursed                  44.1        -       44.1
..  eeeee~m



ANMX III
Page 1 of 2
-NRAORA PTROCaA  MJZCT,
SUPPLMNETARY PROJECT DATA- SRET
U
SectionL-: ITimetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken-by the Borrower to nrevare the Droiect
Four years
(b) The atencv wbich has urenared the uro-ect
Government of India
(c) Date of firet _reseutation to the Bsak and date of
the first mission to consider the uroiect
April 1980, September 1980
(d) Date of departure of aupraisal mission and
Post-appraisal mission
October 1982, July 1984
(e) Date of completion of nestotiations
January 31, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 30, 1985
Section II:    Suecial Bank Inulementat ion Actions
Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and IPCL
satisfactory to the Bank and phy'ical possession of the land
by IPCL, are conditions of Loan effectiveness.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
-2-
Secti   III:   Secial Conditions
(a)  GOI will undertake, by March 1986, a study of alternative
pricing, fiscal and trade policies for
petrochemical-based products.
(b)  GOI will carry out by December 31, 1985 a study of the
export market potential for fiual plastics products
(para. 42).
(c)  IPCL will submit its annual marketing plans to the Bank
for approval by January 31 of each year of the project
(para 57).



INDTA ~     ~       AINZ
Procuret Arra m.
(Ui* zillion)
ProcUrement MNthod Prooamed      Total
IC!       LIT     LCB/Qther       gm
1. Equipmt, Materials and
Spares                         287.6     44.0      468.9         800.5
(158.5)   (31.5)                  (190.0)
2. License and Basic Engineering              83.1                     83.1
(20.0) _&/               (20.0)
3. Detailed Engineering and
Project Services                         48.9                     48.9
4. Land, Civil Works, Erection
and Buildings                                       155.2        155.2
5. Infrastructure Facilities                             163.0        163.0
6. Management and Training                    13.0                      13.0
7. Start-up and Commissioning                 23.3                      23.3
Sub-total, Gas Complex        287.6    212.3      787.1        1287.0
Installed cost             (158.5)   (51.5)                   (210.0)
8. Pre-prnduction imports            90.0       -        450.0        542.
(90.0)    --                      (90.0)
Total                           377.6    212.3      1237.1       1827.0
(of vhich Bank)          (248.5)   (51.5)      (Nil)        (300.0)
Notes:  (i)  Figures in parenthesis indicate amounts financed by the Bank.
(ii) Amounts include duties and taxes.
aJ US$20 million represents Bank financing of basic process
liceusors already selected using LIT procedures acceptable to
the Bank.



t>t  se.r H>f,.t,^     1   I |                     </ @ 5               2 / \4 ~~~~~~~tAaj  n e        Di s I r I c t
Project                                     I >   >  } ,    Trombay
_________________________                             q|BA                            J.C~rec >\<                .~      Pnvel
AA7*,>'  S Of''':                           ;,/ /                           t \             \              ruKetiet
A 4M   A    1A/V                           K 
S~~~~~~~~~~~                                       i A                                 b1    
-1l4&'MAHARASHTRA i/\?.|"
PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT                                 t\.,Ie
NAGOTffANA SITE                                                                     CITY
Proiect components:                        1.^ Tomb
2Li.iI   Nagothano sits                                     esTtiuzu     -                              \
-W       Feedaloct lines                                 I                                     '  
---    Fuel gos line                                        ay
-        Ethylene pipeline iVc \
-^ -  - -Oterted water pipeline                            AIbgfX                                      \X4         DA
0  -        Power line                           "  
-   --,    Access roadr and bridge                                                                                                                    / t0ri z
**@*0*0*@* f ImprovemnJts to existing rood         \
_~~~~ N                      _ 



1I N IC) I A
MAHARASHTRA
PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT                                                                                                   Pen
NAGOTHANA SITE
Project components.                                     Al
Nagothano site                                      r    Eft
-~---.   Feedstock lines                                         PLANT
-  -  -    Fuel gas line
--          Ethylene pipeline
Diverted water pipeline                                  g
-'--------    Power line                                                                            '    \.   Y  \N.\      GE w A
-~--   Access roads and bridge
...         Improvements to existing road
-+--  Railroad
Existing water pipeline
National highways
Roads
-.--t-4-- Radlraads                                                                                        -                 +   RNagoNthanviliage
-.- Railroad under construction (non-Bank project)
|     Jetty (non- Bank project)
Bridges
15030     -    ..Canal830
Rivers
|     -  Dams and reservoirs
0     Village%                                                                                                                   Rha        .
j10     Towns                                                                                                                 -
-.. . ...    Greater Bombay municipal boundary and district boundary
Kod
* -  _. -  State boundary
- - - - ---International boundaries
KILOMEFERS 0           S           tO          15                                                                                                                        w O
MILES                                       lb                             V    W                                       - -s Wd 6 l     k NW r    we o 0 W   W R d  rn  -
Fn,M.   -*iio, FW. U.                    0 SW * AwWi@
73 r , , ,   on w tA rr4  U                                                                * w r   _     s
l~~~~~~~~~~~~7;5                                                                                                                                                       0 nrr b1d   0re  . eKtedrrrC



