Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22423
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26890; IDA-26891)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 23.1 MILLION (US$34.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 9.6 MILLION (US$13.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
August 10, 2001
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 20, 2001)
Currency Unit = Nicaragua Cordoba (C$)
C$1.0 = US$ 0.08
US$ 1.0 = C$ 13.21
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
FISE         Fondo de Inversion Social (Social Investment Emergency Fund)
IDA          International Development Association
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
LSMS         Living Standards Measurement Study
MECD         Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports
MED          Ministry of Education
NERA         Nucleo Educacional Rural Autonomo (Autonomous Rural Education Group)
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SIMCEP       School Maintenance Program
UNESCO       United Nations Education Scientific and Cultural Organization
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:   Xavier Coil
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Robin Hom



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
Basic Education Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    14
9. Partner Comments                                                                   15
10. Additional Infornation                                                           23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Project ID: P007783                                       Project Name: Basic Education Project
Team Leader: Robin S. Horn                                TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: August 10, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Basic Education Project                        L/C/TFNumber. IDA-26890;
IDA-26891
Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/13/1994                              Effective: 06/16/1995         05/12/1995
Appraisal:  09/01/1994                                MTR: 01/31/1997            01/31/1997
Approval:  03/16/1995                              Closing: 12/31/1999          12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                       D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:      Xavier Coll                               K. Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:   Robin Horn                               Manuel Vera
ICR Primary Author:   Amber Gove
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Basic Education Project (Aprende), as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
was to improve the efficiency, quality and equity of basic education in Nicaragua (pre-primary and grades
I to 6) by reducing repetition and dropout rates, and enhancing student academic achievement. The Project
focused primarily on pre-primary and primary education, where the vast majority of students come from
poor segments of the population.
The Project's objective was consistent with and relevant to Government and IDA priorities and strategies in
education, as agreed in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed on June 21, 1994. The CAS
emphasized four key aspects of Nicaragua's development challenge: (a) reviving growth; (b) reforming the
public sector and strengthening institutional capacity; (c) alleviating poverty and investing in human
capital; and (d) improving environmental and natural resource management. Aprende focused primarily on
the second and third of these goals, with a long-term goal of reviving growth through investment in human
capital.
Project objectives were clear and demanding of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports (MECD).
Likewise, the scope of the Project was both broad and ambitious. Aprende's designers expected the Project
to yield dramatic improvements in terms of school and student performance, and in terms of the MECD's
institutional capacity, all within in a very short time frame. Moreover, risks associated with achieving
Project objectives were significant given that school decentralization was a completely new model in
Nicaragua, and one that has not always been able to guarantee improvements in student performance when
implemented by other countries.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Following the October/November 1998 devastation of Hurricane Mitch, IDA assisted the Government in
the preparation, and then quickly approved an emergency supplementary credit in January 1999 in order to
boost the financing of the Aprende Project by an additional 30 percent. At the time, only about US$ 8.19
million remained undisbursed in the credit account and the additional funding was needed to accomplish the
Project's original objectives in vein of the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch. The purpose of the
amnendment was to support Nicaragua's education system recover from the effects of the hurricane. The
objectives specified in the SAR remained unchanged, although the Memorandum and Recommendation of
the President (December 21, 1998) accompanying the supplemental credit agreement summarized the
Project objectives as to: "Improve the efficiency and quality of basic education by reducing repetition and
dropout rates, enhancing student academic achievement and providing satisfactory learning environment;
and to support decentralization of school system to involve the community in school management and
mobilize additional resources to provide performance incentives to teachers."
3.3 Original Components:
Ratinsz      Component                                       Cost US$
S            SCHOOL DECENTRALIZATION                                11,300,000.00
HS           EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS                                  12,000,000.00
S            PRESCHOOL EDUCATION                                     6,000,000.00
S            INFRASTRUCTURE                                          8,500,000.00
S            PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                  1,500,000.00
-2 -



The Project objectives were to be achieved through the decentralization of education management,
development and distribution of educational materials, especially textbooks; expansion and improvement of
non-formal pre-primary education; and rehabilitation, replacement, and repair of inadequate school
facilities. The total Project costs (including contingencies, excluding supplemental credit) were estimated at
US$39.3 million equivalent, divided among the Project components as follows:
(a) School Decentralization (US$ 11.3 million) with the objective of strengthening school
autonomy, to support administrative decentralization of public primary and secondary schools
by providing for training, technical assistance, equipment at the central and local levels, the
establishment of a maintenance program for decentralized municipal councils to undertake
minor school repairs, and performance incentives for primary teachers;
(b) Educational Materials (US$12.0 million) to provide for publication, printing and distribution
of textbooks at the elementary school level;
(c) Pre-Primary Education (US$6.0 million) to provide for the expansion of non-formal
pre-primary education for the one year preceding the primary school level;
(d) Infrastructure (US$8.5 million) to provide for: (i) the rehabilitation, or replacement, of
dilapidated and inadequate primary school buildings; and (ii) the installation of basic sanitary
services in all primary schools; and
(e) Project Administration costs totaling approximately US$1.5 million.
3.4 Revised Components:
As mentioned above, an amendment to the original credit agreement was approved in January, 1999 that
provided supplemental financing in the amount of SDRs 9.6 million (US$13.2 million equivalent), with
US$7.5 million equivalent for infrastructure, US$3.0 million equivalent for a "back to school package"
targeted to children displaced from their homes due to the destruction caused by the hurricane, and US$2.7
million for other educational materials and consultants' services.
The supplemental credit modified the specific Project description of the Educational Materials and
Infrastructure components. Under the materials component, subcomponents were added in order to
distribute materials to students impacted by the hurricane and allow for departments to make supervision
and outreach visits to schools. These included:
(a) educational materials and supplies, and back-to-school packages for students consisting of a
uniform, exercise books, pencils and pens, rulers and erasers (Mochila Escolar) in areas
affected by Hurricane Mitch; and
(b) about 10 four wheel-drive vehicles to support outreach activities and strengthen MECD's
capacity to supervise hurricane-related reconstruction efforts.
The changes to the infrastructure component mainly ensured that the component focused new resources on
schools affected by Mitch. Implementation of the school infrastructure component was done mostly
through an agreement with the Nicaragua Social Investment Fund (FISE). The original school
infrastructure component was to rehabilitate approximately 600 schools and replace an additional 180. By
- 3-



reprogramming schools to serve areas affected by Hurricane Mitch, and by adding an additional $7.6
million to the component, 300 schools in the hurnicane-affected areas would be rehabilitated and/or
replaced (some of which had already been rehabilitated under the original credit). The modified component
also allowed for greater flexibility in implementation, especially in those areas affected by Hurricane
Mitch.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The overall rating for the Basic Education Project is satisfactory. Early in project
implementation (March 1997), the Project was the subject of a review by a Quality at Entry Assessment
Group. The panel rated the operation as fully satisfactory because of its strength in concept, objectives and
approach.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. Project objectives of improving the efficiency, quality and equity of basic education were to
be achieved through the reduction in the repetition and dropout rates, and enhancement of student academic
achievement Although it is notoriously difficult to assess the impact of Project activities on learning and
student flow outcomes, it is possible to describe trends in learning without attributing these outcomes
directly to the Project Improvements in repetition, dropout, and promotion rates for the first grade and
overall completion rates are shown in the following figures. Nicaragua has not yet developed a national
assessment system, though plans are currently underway as part of the follow-on Project. For this reason,
student flow indicators are used as a (admittedly poor) proxy for academic achievement.
Nicaragua has seen improvements across all student flow indicators in recent years, a change which can be
partially attributed to the promotion policy established for the first through third grades in 1993. Figure 1
shows a significant decline in first grade repetition rates during the three year period from credit
effectiveness to the end of 1998 (from 23 percent in 1995 to 7.5 percent in 1998). Concurrent
improvements in promotion rates are also indicated in the table. Changes in dropout rates have been less
consistent over the Project lifetime, beginning at 21 percent in 1995, increasing to 24 percent in 1997, and
declining again to 22 percent in 1998.
4 -



Figure 1. First Grade Student Flows, 1990-1998
80
70 -
60 -
_ 50-
40-
a.i 30 -                 _ _
20
10 -
0        ,      .      .
1990  1991   1992   1993  1994  1995   1996  1997  1998
- Repetition  n Dropout -*- Promotion|
Source: MECD, Education for All 2000 Report
Figure 2 presents primary education completion rates from 1990-1998. These completion rates provide a
measure of system efficiency as they compare, within a given cohort, the number of children who entered
first grade with the number of children who successfully completed the primary cycle. These rates reveal
steady gains over the Project lifetime. In 1995, 26 percent of children finished the primary cycle, rising to
29 percent in 1998.
Figure 2. Primary Education Completion Rates, 1990-1998
35-
30 -           /;           *
25-
E20 -
4f 15 -
10 -
1990  1991   1992  1993   1994   1995  1996   1997   1998
-- Total    +             Female       Male
Source: MECD, Education for All 2000 Report
Evaluation Results: Autonomous Schools and Community Preschools. The Aprende Project developed
and conducted two longitudinal studies, evaluating the impact of Project activities in those areas that were
considered both controversial and innovative.
- 5-



Results of the Evaluation of School Autonomy. Principal findings of the autonomy study of a sample of
approximately 220 schools, conducted by the MECD's Departnent of Evaluation, are as follows:
(a)   There is a significant and positive relationship between the number of years that a primary
autonomous school has possessed autonomous status and mathematics achievement. A similar, and
stronger relationship applies to Spanish in secondary autonomous schools. One caveat to this result
is a possible self-selection bias, especially during the first few years of the program. That is,
schools that elected to participate in the autonomy program may have benefited from additional
leadership or other factors than otherwise similar schools.
(b)    Longitudinal results reveal decreasing repetition rates in all types of schools, although statistically
significant only in (i) Autonomous Rural Education Groups (NERAs) offering primary instruction
(from 9.4 percent in 1996 to 3 percent in 1999), (ii) secondary autonomous schools (from 7.9
percent in 1996 and to 5 percent in 1999), and (iii) centralized secondary schools (from 10.1
percent in 1996 to 2.8 percent in 1999).
(c)    As part of the evaluation, achievement tests were given to a cohort of students in each subgroup of
schools, the results of which are presented in Table 1. Both primary and secondary autonomous
schools recorded significant improvements in Spanish achievement results.
Table 1: Mean Spanish and Mathematics Results, 1996 and 1998
PRIMARY                                1996           1998
Autonomous       Spanish              31.94          34.71
Math                 43.82          45.31
NERA             Spanish              31.79          31.40
Math                 43.95          44.55
Centralized      Spanish              31.84          32.10
Math                 46.97          46.20
SECONDARY                               _
Autonomous       Spanish              37.64          36.71
Math                 35.04          32.70
Centralized      Spanish              35.85          34.76
_Math                 34.10          32.52
Source: MECD (2000)
Results of the Evaluation of Preschools. Results from the longitudinal preschool study are also very
positive. In a sample of more than 1,000 public school students, preschool attendance had a positive and
significant effect on promotion rates in later grades. Castro, V. (1999) "Evaluaci6n de Impacto del
Programa de Preescolares Comunitarios Tercera Fase: 1999" Managua Nicaragua: Proyecto Aprende
(Processed). The study, conducted over a period of three years, demonstrated that there is a positive and
significant impact on the socio-affective and cognitive development of students that were enrolled in
communuity preschools. Additional findings included:
- 6 -



(a)    Preschool appears to have an equalizing effect between children of different socioeconomic levels.
Results indicated that the effect of attending preschool on cognitive development was much higher
for children of lower socio-economic class. For children from poorer families, the effect of
preschool eclipsed the effect of mother's education on test scores.
(b)    Preschool attendance appears to have a significant and positive irnpact on test results for girls and
students living in rural areas, as measured by a cognitive evaluation. These results are presented in
greater detail in Table 2, below. Of students in rural areas, 91.5 percent of children scored
"normal" on the evaluation of their cognitive abilities, compared with 86.3 percent of those that did
not attend preschool. For girls, 89.5 percent of preschoolers but only 83.6 percent of others scored
at the normal level.
Table 2. Cognitive Test Results by Subgroup, 1998 (Percent)
Pre-    Other    Pre-    Other    Pre-    Other  Prescho   Other
school   Urban   school   Rural   school   Girls   ol Boys   Boys
Urban             Rural              Girls
Normal           85.7    83.5       91.5    86.3      89.5    83.6      89.7   87.0
Needs             8.2    10.7        8.5     7.4       8.5     7.5       8.3     9.3
Inprovement
Deficient         6.1      5.8        -      6.4       2.0     8.9       2.1     3.7
TOTAL             100      100       100     100       100     100       100     100
Source: Castro (1999) (Bold indicates significant results).
The results of these evaluations provide a positive assessment of autonomous schools and preschools
supported by the Project. In both cases, significant positive results demonstrate the effectiveness of these
interventions in improving academic performance and student flow indicators of disadvantaged children.
The findings of studies provide positive feedback that preschool education and autonomous schools are
effective policies.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The original Project design was heavily skewed toward decentralization in terms of expected outputs.
Project outputs discussed here are those following the revision to the Project description under the
amendment to the Credit Agreement following Hurricane Mitch.
Decentralization Component: Satisfactory. The principal objective of the decentralization component
was to consolidate and improve the financial and institutional mechanisms to support the school autonomy
model, and to expand the autonomous school experience to a greater number of primary schools. These
efforts were to be supported by restructuring the supervision system to a service-oriented system that would
both promote the autonomy process and provide technical assistance to school staff to help them adopt and
implement autonomous control. Despite the change in the government in 1998, implementation of this
component advanced steadily and rapidly throughout Project implementation. By Project close, the number
of autonomous schools established by the Ministry exceeded expectations by a factor of ten (see Annex 1).
-7-



The decentralization component was comprised of institutional strengthening of both MECD and local
levels, especially in the areas of supervision and administration, information management and monitoring
systems, and social awareness campaigns. Teacher performance incentives and a decentralized school
maintenance program were also included under this component. The implementation record of these
subcomponents is mixed, with the degree of success seemingly inversely related to the centralized nature of
the institution. Overall, institutional strengthening has produced relatively less of an impact at the ministry
level than had been hoped. In particular, during the implementation period of the Project, the MECD had
not succeeded in restructuring the existing supervision system into a school technical assistance program to
strengthen and support schools and school autonomy. The establishment of a revamped supervision system
is only now making substantial progress under the follow-up Project, Aprende 2. Similarly, the
information and monitoring systems had not yet been fully established during the Project implementation
period, but is being addressed in the follow-on Project. Substantial and sustainable improvement in
institutional capacity may require greater efforts from within the MECD, including the introduction of
feedback systems, clearer alignment of goals, and the establishment of incentive mechanisms. These
changes are extremely difficult to achieve in the short term, especially in such a complex institution as
MECD.
Evaluations of school decentralization irn Nicaragua are consistent with the above summary. As pointed
out in the preceding paragraph, the MECD was less able than the schools themselves to transform its
institutional structure and staffing arrangements in such a way as to effectively absorb and support the
school autonomy model. Nonetheless, as mentioned above, the MECD successfully made many schools
autonomous--the numbers are impressive. By June 2001, thirty nine percent of all public primary schools
were autonomous, corresponding to 63 percent of public primary students, and 57 percent of the primary
teachers. At the secondary level, 51 percent are autonomous, corresponding to 86 percent of students and
83 percent of teachers. Combining primary and secondary schools, 40 percent of public schools are
autonomous, corresponding to 68 percent of public school students, and 62 percent of public
schoolteachers. As of July 2001, another 995 schools have become autonomous, after a two year delay in
their conversion. According to the MECD, the biggest constraint regarding this conversion is the lack of
additional funding to transfer to the schools.
Evaluation Component: Satisfactory. One area in which the MECD has made substantial progress is its
rapid integration of a culture of educational evaluation. The MECD has developed a relatively strong
capacity in evaluation thanks to the Aprende Project, enabling the institution to conduct a sophisticated
longitudinal evaluation of the autonomous schools program, measuring changes in areas as diverse as
parent participation, student achievement, and teacher perceptions (as described under Project outcomes,
above). In preparation for the follow-on Project, MECD officials initiated the development of the first
national student perfornance evaluation, using criterion-referenced items, linked to the national curriculum.
These efforts have been especially challenging, as it is difficult to recruit and retain individuals trained in
education evaluation (which is not offered as an option for study in any of Nicaragua's universities). An
additional, and more serious challenge is that the MECD is not yet accustomed to the use of evaluation as a
mechanism for improving education policy and practice. Instead, evaluation is seen more as a mechanism
for supporting or rejecting policies. Further progress on using evaluation results to improve policy and
practice may occur only when MECD officials become more receptive to the value of evaluation.
Teacher performance incentives and the school maintenance program --both decentralized programs-- have
seen positive results. Teacher performance incentives have been distributed to 9,306 teachers in 1,754
schools. One caveat to this success is the ratio of local contributions to those of MECD. At Project signing
- 8 -



it was envisaged that the community, when possible, would assume responsibility for the payment of
teacher incentives. Complementary funds from MECD would be proportioned in accordance with a
poverty map (with communities of high poverty levels receiving more funds). During implementation it
was quickly discovered that most communities, independent of poverty level, were either unable or
unwilling to finance teacher incentives; in many communities MECD contributions represented the entirety
of the teacher incentive.
The autonomous school maintenance and rehabilitation program (SIMCEP), executed under the direction
of the School Infrastructure Component, underwent significant changes during implementation. As
originally programmed, some 222 autonomous schools were to receive a transfer (not to exceed
US$10,000) to conduct repairs in conjunction with their community. By Project closing, 243 schools had
participated in the decentralized school maintenance program. Under the supplementary credit, SIMCEP
was allocated an additional 163 schools that would undergo rehabilitation or whose classrooms would be
replaced in areas affected by Hurricane Mitch. In a recent evaluation, one international expert noted that
SIMCEP was extremely effective in ensuring quality construction (equivalent to that of govermment
agencies) within established time frames. More importantly, he noted, the model had "achieved substantial
integration of the community in the process and met the expectations of families and officials at various
levels." Zihiiga Wager, A. (2000) "Mision de Supervision de Componente de Infraestructura del MECD"
(Ayuda Memoria, 27 de Octubre 2000). Under the supplementary credit, SIMCEP rehabilitated or replaced
413 classroom structures, exceeding Project goals by 150 percent.
Educational Materials Component: Satisfactory. Nicaragua's first international acquisition of
textbooks for national distribution was ultimately successful despite a steep learning curve. In total, more
than 4.7 million books and 4.3 million workbooks were produced and distributed (see Annex 1). A
National Congress of Teachers reviewed and approved the new textbooks, noting the appropriateness of the
materials and their relation to the national curriculum. MECD also trained 26,000 teachers in the use of the
new textbooks. Results from the school autonomy evaluation support the hypothesis that nearly all
students have received and are using textbooks. In a sample of schools in 1998, 95 percent of public
primary schools students reported that they had received their textbooks. MECD (2000) "Estudio
Longitudinal del Impacto de Autonomia Escolar" Managua Nicaragua: Proyecto Aprende.
Under the supplementary credit two additional subcomponents were added to this component. In an effort
to make the transition back to school less difficult for families impacted by Hurricane Mitch, MECD
acquired and distributed a backpack filled with school materials including pencils, notebooks and school
uniforms to approximately 137,000 students. Unfortunately, protracted delays in the bidding process and
the lack of an effective distribution system contributed to a delivery date nearly two years after Hurricane
Mitch. Factors that contributed to this delay are discussed later in the report. In addition, the MECD
acquired ten vehicles to support school reconstruction and supervision efforts.
Expansion of Pre-primary Education Component: Highly Satisfactory. The establishment of a
community pre-school program has been extremely successful. Pre-school enrollments exceeded SAR
targets in nearly every category. As of Project closing, some 93,000 students were enrolled in 4,130
community preschools. Training for 4,540 volunteer teachers was conducted by 194 trainers, while some
40,000 parents (the only outcome to fall short of the original target--see Annex 1) became members of their
community preschool council. The strategic decision to expand and make quality improvements to an
existing model of community preschools substantially contributed to the success of the component.
Currently, community preschool enrollments account for more than half of all preschool enrollments,
representing significant improvements in education equity and access.
-9-



Infrastructure Component: Unsatisfactory. Citing lessons learned in previous projects with the Social
Investment Fund (FISE), Project designers emphasized the importance of working with a "small specialized
agency in efficiently undertaking a large number of dispersed and small infrastructure operations." By
Project closing, Aprende was phasing out of major new construction activities because FISE was
responding to the demand for new schools directly, and in ways that did not require the involvement of the
Aprende Project. Simultaneously, Aprende focused increasingly on the decentralized school-based
small-scale maintenance and rehabilitation of schools, an activity that built on and strengthened school
autonomy.
Consequently, FISE's role in Project implementation was modified. FISE was originally responsible for the
construction of 415 classrooms and the rehabilitation of 735 classrooms and 3,890 school bathrooms.
Start-up of these activities was slowed by inadequate or outdated school survey information and poor
communication between the MECD and FISE. With the approval of the emergency supplemental credit,
the scope of the construction and rehabilitation for FISE was modified to include the following: 170 schools
(not classrooms), including bathrooms, from the original list, to be constructed; 10 schools, including
bathrooms, from the original list, to be rehabilitated; and 152 schools to be replaced or fully rehabilitated in
the hurricane-affected areas. Of this total of 332 schools, only 198 schools, or 60 percent, were completed.
In greater detail, FISE rebuilt 168 out of the revised list of 170 schools, rehabilitated (including bathrooms)
7 of the revised list of 10 schools, and rebuilt 23 out of the reprogrammed list of 152 schools in areas
affected by Mitch.
The apparent mismatch between the limited, but focused demands of the Aprende Project for school
reconstruction, and the much broader responsibilities of a semi-autonomous government agency responsible
for providing infrastructure across a wide range of sectors in response to locally-determined needs could
not be overcome in time to produce a more desirable outcome. In addition, FISE's need to respond broadly
to evolving and critical demands for reconstruction in hurricaine-affected regions, compounded by
extremely difficult access and supply links, made the achievement of the reprogrammed school construction
goals much more challenging than anticipated during the preparation of the supplemental credit. The
unsatisfactory rating of this component can be largely attributed to the percentage completion of the
reprogrammed goals (60 percent), and not to the quality of the works executed by FISE or under the
SIMCEP model.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional Development Impact: Modest. As discussed above, institutional development impact
varied by component. With regard to the decentralization component, schools readily integrated the
changes required to operate effectively under autonomous guidelines. Managers and staff in municipal
education offices, in Department education offices, as well as in the MECD itself have had more difficulty
adapting their roles and the responsibilities of their units to support school autonomy. In contrast, MECD
successfully integrated education evaluation, school-managed maintenance, competitive acquisition of
educational materials, and pre-primary educational planning and implementation. Therefore, overall rating
for institutional development impact is considered modest.
-10-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
(a) Persistent Levels of Poverty and Low Levels of Development. In the decade of the 1990s,
Nicaragua made extensive efforts to reduce civil violence, establish macroeconomic stability, and restore
growth. Despite laudable successes on many fronts, poverty in Nicaragua continues to be pervasive and
acute. About half of the population lives in poverty, and about 17 percent live in extreme poverty. While
positive growth rates since 1993 have helped reduce the rate of poverty, a continued rapid growth of
population has undercut these gains, and there are actually more people living in poverty today than in
1993. Thus, Nicaragua remains one of the poorest countries in Latin America. The difficult econornic
situation and high levels of poverty that persist in Nicaragua limit the impact of Project activities. In an
environment where about 20 percent of children under 5 are chronically malnourished or stunted, and a
large percentage of all children do not have the minimum number of calories recommended by UNESCO,
it is especially difficult to produce a quick impact from education investments, and a substantial challenge
to yield sustainable change.
(b) Devastation Wrought by Hurricane Mitch. The impact of Hurricane Mitch was devastating to the
economic development of the country in general and education infrastructure in particular. Officials
estimate that the hurricane caused more than 2,000 deaths, the destruction of 20,000 homes and
reconstruction costs of approximately US$500 million. Nearly 216 schools were completely destroyed,
while some 296 schools were damaged and required repairs before their communities could use them.
Some 300,000 textbooks were lost, while MECD estimated that damages to the education sector alone
exceeded US$51 million. Furthermore, the impact of the disaster on social networks, communities and
families was extremely high. The subsequent migration of families in search of housing and shelter caused
major disruptions in the school year for thousands of students.
(c) Limited Implementation Experience in Education. Nearly twenty years passed between the
approval of the prior Project in Nicaragua and the commencement of Aprende. Consequently, this Project
was faced with the same learning process confronting any new borrower. At Project signing, IDA had only
recently begun financing new operations in Nicaragua: only three projects, including that of FISE, were
under implementation. With few exceptions, MECD and Project staff possessed little knowledge of IDA
practices and procedures, requiring intensive training and longer than expected delays in the initial stages of
implementation.
Two aspects of Project implementation-disbursement and procurement--may have been affected by this
lack of experience in the management of an IDA-financed Project. First, Project implementation was
somewhat compromised due to cash flow problems. Causes for cash flow problems sometimes resulted
from the Borrower's difficulty in preparing disbursement applications in strict accordance with IDA's
policy. Consequently, applications were placed on hold for many days by the Association seeking
corrections, clarifications, or additional documentation. In other cases, a lack of necessary documentation
justifying expenditures, arguably confusing IDA no-objection letters, problems with the special account
conciliations, or with the use of the special account may have also contributed to disbursement delays.
Procurement delays also affected Project performance. On various occasions, especially during the initial
years of Project implementation, procurement documents prepared by the Project Implementation Unit for
the Association's review for adherence to international procurement guidelines were returned for additional
information or for correction. From the point of view of the Borrower, the prior review process could have
benefitted from better technical assistance and support. On the other hand, the Association often saw the
problem more as a consequence of the implementation unit not following appropriate procedures.
- 11 -



Nonetheless, improved collaboration and communication during the final years of Project execution
resulted in substantial improvement in procurement planning and implementation, and an efficient
implementation of the corresponding procurement activities.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Absence of a Legal Foundation for Education and School Autonomy. The absence of a formal legal
base for both education and school autonomy does not allow the MECD to have full legal authority and
support in implementation of its reform agenda. In conjunction with the more pressing problem of financial
difficulty of assuring transfers to additional schools, this absence of legal authority has restricted MECD's
ability to expand autonomous schools to meet demand. After being on the waiting list to be converted to
autonomous status for over two years, 995 centers were converted in July, for a total of 2,932 autonomous
schools.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(a) Turnover of Ministry Personnel. Since Project effectiveness there have been three Ministers of
Education, six vice ministers, and dozens of senior staff replacements. While change per se does not
necessarily imply negative outcomes, the uncertainty of personnel, delays in bringing new staff up to speed,
and lack of institutional memory can have a negative impact on Project implementation. On the other hand,
the MECD demonstrated strong support for the Project, as reflected in the relative permanence of Project
staff, which in turn resulted in a good Project implementation.
(b) Inadequate Distribution System. The challenges of distribution of books and materials became
apparent a number of times during Project implementation. In the absence of a reliable mail service and an
adequate transport and infrastructure, distribution of materials is often insufficient to ensure that schools
receive, in a timely manner, the materials needed to support student learning.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Implementation and Disbursement. With the exception of the supplemental credit provided to finance an
additional US$13.2 million in project costs due to the destruction to the education sector, there were no
significant changes to the costs and financing of the Project. The following figure depicts estimated and
actual disbursements during the Project lifetime.
Figure 3. Project Disbursement, Estimated and Actual FY1995 to FY2001
35
30
25-
0
== 20 -     
E
a   a   a   a   a   a   a   a   a   a   a   a
tn  tD   C    r-.  r-   c    co a D)  CD   a    a
aa  aa  al  o~)  0)  (n   0   a)       o>   (    o
CD  CD  CD  CD  CD  CD  CD  CD  ~~~~~~CD 4 0 1 0   0
- - - t tN   N   ClN
Planned . - - - - Actual to-date
- 12 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The sustainability of project objectives is due to: popular support for the autonomy and preschool
models, success of the school maintenance program in involving the community, and the continued support
under the follow-up project.
Community Support for School Autonomy. As demonstrated by the more than 800 schools that waited
over two years for the MECD's approval to become autonomous, as well as evaluations of community
support, it is clear that the autonomy model has grown beyond the expectation of its designers. Parent
participation rates are high, with frequency of school visits by parents approaching the levels of private
schools. Reformers increasingly recognize that improving school quality requires examination of the salient
issues of teacher incentives, parent participation, and school-based innovation. Furthermore, given the
relatively low cost and speedy implementation of SIMCEP projects, it is likely that the MECD will absorb
the community infrastructure projects into standard operations as a way to make small repairs to schools.
Community Demand for Preschools. The rapid growth rates and widespread support for community
preschools promises continued expansion of the program, so long as the MECD is willing to provide
incentives for preschool teachers. Given the relatively low cost and high returns (as measured by the
success of the program on multiple indicators, described in previous sections), MECD's continued support
of the program is highly likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Prior to completion of the Basic Education Project, the Government began discussions for a follow-on
Project that would build on lessons. Implementation of Aprende 2 is well underway, and design of the
Project has been significantly influenced by lessons learned under the first Project. The autonomy and
preschool evaluations have deepened the analysis of lessons learned and suggested improvements to how
MECD can be successful through innovative, locally driven programs. Having established a precedent for
quality research, the Project is consolidating its efforts in evaluation and the use of evaluation results in
policy formation. The existence of a follow-on project should assure continued support of program
activities and integration of successful activities into the line operations of the MECD.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA Performance - Lending. (Satisfactory). The project was hailed as being innovative and appropriate
to the country's needs, while reflecting lessons learned from earlier projects. Project designers used LSMS
and other data to assess local conditions and needs. Targets, with the exception of FISE results, were
reasonable yet challenging to the Government. Comments to this effect can be found in the quality
assessment at entry report.
7.2 Supervision:
(Satisfactory). Although the project experienced some delays in disbursement, there were no adverse effects
on the achievement of the project targets. In addition, despite three changes in World Bank task
management during project implementation, continuity at the Project Implementation Unit, ensured a good
transition and no implementation delays.
- 13-



7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall IDA Performance. (Satisfactory). Largely due to the good design and achievable,
notwithstanding ambitious targets for the Project, the overall rating for IDA performnance is satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
(Satisfactory). Borrower commitment to achieving project outcome and outputs was clear from the
beginning of project design, as indicated by the Quality Assurance Group's review.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
(Satisfactory). Despite a number of challenges to implementation, including the impact of Hurnicane
Mitch on school infrastructure, pedagogic inputs, and distribution routes, the MECD demonstrated
satisfactory performance and commitment to the Project. Education was given a high priority by the two
government administrations active during Project implementation, and the selection of a core team of
permanent project staff was crucial to implementation success. The success of the project hinges largely on
the MECD's emphasis on attacking the basic problems of the primary education system, while promoting
increased community and civil society participation in improving outcomes for all children.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
(Satisfactory). Early implementation of the Project by Aprende staff was tempered by a relatively steep
learning curve, as described above. As experience was gained, implementation progress improved
throughout the life of the Project, with successful completion of nearly all project targets. Efficient and
timely execution of Project activities was commendable.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
(Satisfactory). Performance was adequate throughout the lifetime of the project.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons can be drawn from the Project experience:
i   Worldng Directly with Communities. One of the principal lessons drawn from the
Aprende Project is the success of collaborative efforts with communities, as demonstrated
in both the autonomous school and community preschool projects. Components that
involved the community were executed quickly and with quality results. By contrast,
implementation and other delays arose primarily in those areas where extensive
inter-agency cooperation was required (as is the case of FISE). Aprende 2 builds upon
these lessons learned, consolidating both the autonomous school and preschool
expenences.
*   Client-Oriented Processes and Practice. Efficient project implementation is facilitated
by realistic, clearly defined, and agreed rules and timeframes for procurement. When
priority and close collaboration is conferred between the Bank and the Client for
time-bound delivery of perishable-type products such as textbooks and other education
materials (that need to arrive on time for the school year), the result is successful
implementation and beneficiary satisfaction.
- 14 -



* Emergency Operations and Standard Procurement Procedures. In those cases where
urgent procurement of goods, works, or services is required, such as in an emergency
operation (i.e., the supplemental credit following Hurricane Mitch), staff from the Bank
and the client should draft procurement documents as a single team. The difficulty
associated with the relatively delayed procurement of the mochila escolar (over 18 months
between defining need to purchase the mochilas and their actual delivery to the children) is
a clear example of the need to create a more integrated Bank/Borrower team to streamline
procurement. The success of the SIMCEP and other components is remarkable.
* Continuity of Project Implementation Unit. Through two elected governments, and
several changes in MECD, the Government of Nicaragua maintained in place the same key
Project Implementation Unit staff, including the Project Manager. This continuity proved
to be an extremely valuable asset to project implementation, communication with the Bank,
and ultimately assured the government's ability to achieve Project objectives.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
I.-    BACKGROUND
At the beginning of the nineties, within the framework of profound economic and social
changes, the Government of Nicaragua started an educational reform aimed at considerably
improving the quality of the education. To this effect, the Government of Nicaragua requested
the support of the International Development Association through a credit for the education
sector that would respond to the needs of the country in regards to basic education.
On March 16, 1995, the Board of Directors of the International Development Association
approved a Development Credit for the Basic Education Project and, on March 17, 1995, a
Development Credit Agreement No. 2689-NI was signed for an amount of Special Drawings
Rights 23.1 millions, equivalent to U.S. Dollars 34.0 millions in order to finance the Basic
Education Project in Nicaragua. The project would have an implementation period of four
years.
During the 1995-1998 period, the Project was implemented according to the planned program;
however, at the end of October 1998, Hurricane Mitch devastated a great part of the country
and the Government of Nicaragua asked the international community for help in order to face
the national reconstruction. In this respect, the Board of Directors of the International
Development Association authorized a Supplementary Credit on January 7, 1999 in the sum of
Special Drawing Rights 9.6 millions, equivalent to US Dollars 13.2 millions in order to
support the school reconstruction process. The Amendment to the Credit Agreement was
signed on January 19, 1999 and once the conditions were fulfilled, the said increase came into
force on June 1, 1999.
II.-   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The general objective planned for the Project was to improve the efficiency, quality and equity
of the basic education in Nicaragua through the reduction of the rates of repetition and
desertion and the improvement of the academic performance of the students. The Project was
- 15-



aimed at the preschool and primary levels where the great majority of students come from the
poorest sectors of the population.
The Project would reach its objectives through the educational decentralization, the
development and distribution of educational material, especially of textbooks, the expansion of
non formal preschool education and the rehabilitation and replacement of the physical
infrastructure.
It is important to point out that the Project aimed its performance throughout the
implementation period on the basis of the objectives and achievements originally set out in the
design of the Project.
III.- PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
I .    Achievement of Objectives
At the end of the implementation period, it can be asserted that the Project reached the
objectives planned in its design thus improving the efficiency, quality and fairness of the basic
education through the reduction of the rates of desertion and repetition and an improvement in
the academic performance of the students. Despite that there are not enough studies and that
the country still does not have an evaluation system, some elements are found that could
support the previous assertion. According to the MECD data, the rate of repetition in the first
grade was reduced from 23% in 1995 to 7.5% in 1998. Likewise, the rate of completion of the
primary education improved during the implementation period of the Project. In 1995, 26% of
the students that entered in first grade finished their primary education; that rate increased to
29% in 1998.
2.     Ouputs
The Basic Education Project achieved to finalize the implementation of the first stage, thus
attaining the goals set out in its design.
Educational Decentralization. Within this component, the Project supported the
MECD in the consolidation of the school autonomy process. In this sense, at the end
of the Project, a total of 1,927 centers were incorporated into the school autonomy, of
which, a total of 1,781 were primary centers and the remaining 156 were secondary
centers.
One of the main supports given by the Project in order to strengthen the execution of
the model is the training, which is of vital importance for an adequate performance of
the decentralization process. In this sense, Aprende financed a total of 139 training
courses, with the attendance of 9,619 participants including MECD staff at central,
departmental and municipal levels as well as members of the School Directory Council
and parents.
On the other hand, the institutional capacity of the MECD was strengthened through
the specialized technical assistance services equivalent to 121 months/consultants in
key matters related to the educational decentralization.
- 16 -



With the aim at the consolidation of the decentralization process and, at the same time,
at the improvement of the attendance and punctuality of primary teachers and at the
retention of students, the Project gave performance incentives to the teachers of
autonomous primary schools, where parents had an active participation in the control
of the attendance and punctuality of their children's teachers. At the end of the
Project, a total of 9,306 teachers were incorporated to this incentive system.
As support to a suitable model on behalf of all the actors involved, the Project
developed a diffusion and communication campaign with the assistance of specialized
consultants on this matter.
The component also included a decentralized system for the repair of primary school
centers where the one responsible of the execution was the school council itself,
implementing minor repair works undeT the Primary School Improvement System
(SIMCEP). Under this system, 243 corrective maintenance projects were
implemented, improving the conditions of 1,639 classrooms housing 98,352 children.
As a consequence of the highly satisfactory results obtained during this execution, the
World Bank authorized the implementation of a pilot scheme for works of greater
magnitude comprising the total replacement of three school centers with a maximum of
four classrooms, with positive results that allowed the expansion of the attention
scheme of the SIMCEP.
Within the emergent actions of infrastructure in order to face the school reconstruction
after Hurricane Mitch, which guaranteed the start of the 1999 school cycle with the
less possible delay, APRENDE, through the SIMCEP, carried out 410 rehabilitation
and replacement projects in the affected schools equivalent to 1,580 classrooms
serving 60,000 children; in addition, 27,000 sets of tables and chairs were acquired
for primary school students and 700 sets of tables and chairs for teachers allowed the
replacement of the ruined furniture.
In order to deeply learn the development of the decentralization process, an assessment
of the said process was carried out with a longitudinal study of three phases,
comprising three complementary aspects: i) a quantitative type assessment with data
collected through a school/home survey to principals, parents, teachers, members of
the consultative and executive councils and to the students; ii) a qualitative type
assessment through focal groups and open interviews to members of the educational
community such as parents, teachers, members of the councils and principals; and iii)
the application of tests in order to measure the academic performance in Mathematics
and Spanish of fourth grade students and third year students in secondary schools.
Likewise, the Project has supported the initial training of the Evaluation Department
team of the MECD in regards to: i) quantitative assessment; ii) qualitative assessment
and iii) the preparation of academic performance tests.
Educational Material. In 1993, the MECD started a development process of
improved curricular documents and, in 1994, it carried out the curricular
transformation bringing profound changes in the educational conception of the
institution. These efforts were translated into a new curricular conception thus
requiring new textbooks that would respond to the said changes.
- 17 -



In this respect, the Project funded activities that contributed to the improvement of the
learning and teaching techniques providing 4,778,700 textbooks, 4,319,100 exercise
books and 158,500 educational guide books for 750,000 students and for 26,000
teachers of public schools and subsidized regular primary schools, multigrade schools
and adult schools of the rural and urban areas throughout the country.
Likewise, technical and financial support was given to the training of teachers and
technicians in the handling and use of the didactic complex and to the training given to
the MECD staff in regards to reception, control and follow up distribution of text
books.
Expansion of preschool education. Within the Preschool component, the Project
managed to considerably consolidate and expand the non formal model of preschool
education: the community preschools. At the beginning of APRENDE, a total of
24,057 children were registered in community preschools; in 1999, an enrollment of
93,000 children was reached between the ages of 3 and 6 in marginal rural and urban
areas of the country. These children attended 4,130 centers and were looked after by
4,540 voluntary teachers.
One of the basic features of the Project through this component was the training of
voluntary teachers, itinerant trainees and MECD technicians. In this way, a total of
1,680 events were organized with an attendance of more than 30,000 participants.
The contents developed during the training were: use and handling of curricular
documents, language development in children younger than six years, production of
material with environmental resources, game methodology, participation of families
and community in the development of educational, planning and evaluation programs,
meetings with parents, community participation and strengthening of teaching
practices. All these aspects contributed in such a way that teachers would have a
greater control of the child's attention in the classrooms.
As support to the training capacity, the Project delivered incentives to 173 itinerant
trainees and to 139 municipal technicians in order to guarantee the direct advice in the
classrooms and the follow up of different tasks developed by the teachers. The
trainees and technicians made 37,000 visits to voluntary teachers.
With the Project, the design, reproduction and distribution of a total of 706,737
printed material such as manuals, textbook guides, exercise books, flip charts and
plate illustrations were funded and delivered during the execution of this component.
A total of 3,921 packages of durable material and 21,361 packages of consumable
material for teachers and children were delivered to the centers during the execution of
the Project. It also funded the purchase of 3,366 sets of furniture in order to improve
the conditions in the preschools and to facilitate the development of activities and the
organization of the work with the children.
During the execution of the Project, a total of 4,540 voluntary teachers received a
monthly incentive. This action served as a means to encourage their continuance and,
at the same time, to recognize the work carried out by them.
- 18 -



In support to the development of the model, the Project funded the technical assistance
through national consultants specialized in matters of evaluation and follow up,
training and community participation.
As from 1998, a research began on the impact of community preschools in regards to
the development of the children. The objective of this study was to leam more on the
impact that community preschools had on the comprehensive development of boys and
girls attending the schools and those who did not have any type of education.
Physical Infrastructure. Through APRENDE, the replacement, rehabilitation and
maintenance of primary school centers were carried out together with the supply of
sanitation and extemal works, providing the adequate environment that allows better
levels of assimilation and learning of the students.
To this effect, the Project included interventions developed through an executor or
purchasing agent, the Social Investment Fund for Emergencies (FISE), in charge of
carrying out all the necessary duties of the MECD.
Although it is true that the Project started in 1995, the infrastructure works could not
be implemented then, but until the second year because of the need to adapt the tasks
of the Project to the plans and procedures of the implementation applied by FISE.
In all, 591 classrooms were given attention of the 175 projects for the replacement and
rehabilitation of schools which benefited 23,640 children in the following
Departments: Boaco, Carazo, Chinandega, Chontales, Esteli, Jinotega, Le6n,
Madriz, Managua, Masaya, Matagalpa, Nueva Segovia, Rivas, Zelaya Central,
Zelaya Norte.
As part of the school reconstruction tasks after the passing of Hurricane Mitch, a total
of 23 projects were given attention with 87 classrooms and approximately 3,480
children.
IV.-   Borrower's Performance Assessment
The design and execution of the Basic Education Project is the first attempt of the educational
sector in Nicaragua after 18 years of the execution of the last project financed by the World
Bank in this sector. Considering the economic, political, social and institutional conditions at
the beginning of the 1990s in Nicaragua, this Project was a tremendous challenge for the
country and particularly for the MECD.
1.    Challenges encountered. The main challenges encountered by the MECD in the
execution of the Project are shown below:
(a) To implement a decentralization model without the support of a previous legal
base that would facilitate the creation of all the implementation plans made the tasks of the
MECD significantly difficult because it did not count with an absolute legal authority and with
the support in the reform process during the execution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
enthusiasm found in the educational community allowed the model to consolidate.
- 19-



(b) The MECD had to cover a greater learning curve than the one normally required
by a borrower with previous experience. In this sense, and with few exceptions, the staff
involved in the implementation of the Project did not have a profound knowledge of the
procedures demanded by the World Bank for this type of project. However, with the exception
of a few delays in the execution of the initial stage, the MECD managed to surpasses these
limitations and implemented the Project in a satisfactory manner.
(c) The distribution of textbooks and other educational material required an efficient
distribution system that would allow all beneficiaries (near 750,000 students) to have the
complete set of materials in an opportune way. The MECD, with serious shortage of
resources, had problems in this sense causing delays in some of the delivery procedures as well
as with mistakes in controlling the said material.
(d) The community preschool, a model of non formal education, was selected by the
MECD in order to have access to the poorest sectors in this educational level. Due to its
features, this model is based on the organization of the community and on the voluntary work
of its members. In order to keep this model working, a strong promotional work is required as
well as other incentive alternatives. A way of recognition should also be found in order to
encourage voluntary teachers. The MECD managed to establish a greater stability of the
model and, in general terms, a greater continuance of the voluntary teachers in the program.
2.    Performance Assessment. Based on the results and achievements of the Project, it
can be asserted that the performance of the MECD, and specifically of the Coordinating Unit,
during the evolution and implementation of the Project has been satisfactory. At component
level, the execution of the Education Decentralization was also satisfactory despite the
difficulties encountered by the lack of a legal base and the test of the different alternatives of
the model, going from a municipal level to the school autonomy. In relation to the Educational
Material component, a satisfactory performance is observed throughout the process, with the
exception of some efrors in the distribution system of the materials. In regards to the
Expansion of the Preschool Education component, it can be asserted that the performance was
highly satisfactory, both through the operation of the model and through the impact that it had
on the beneficiaries. The Infrastructure component is the less satisfactory due to the fact that,
on the one hand, the design did not take into consideration the incompatibility of the FISE
mandates, and on the other, the implementation of a project by another govemnment entity.
In relation to the administrative and financial aspects of the Project, the performance of the
MECD has been satisfactory, both at the operational level and in regards to the transparency
which has been backed up by the external audits carried out. Likewise, the procurement
aspects show a satisfactory performance, except in regards to the procurement of school
packages of basic educational material and other materials, which faced serious delays and
problems
3.     Lessons learned. It is worth mentioning, on the one hand, that the main lesson
learned through the Project is the outstanding participation of the community in the education
program. The foregoing is clearly reflected in the results of the school autonomy and in the
way that the academic performance was increased insofar as the parents were involved in the
education of their children. Likewise, the SIMCEP, which mainly lies on the participation of
the School Executive Councils, showed a highly efficient execution. On the other hand, the
- 20 -



model of community preschools, based on the direct participation of the community and on the
voluntaxy work of its members, also showed a highly satisfactory performance.
It is also worth mentioning as a lesson learned, the need to count with a well established
framework for the intervention of projects funded by the World Bank in regards to emergencies
caused by natural disasters. The foregoing was highlighted with the school reconstruction as a
result of the passing of Hurricane Mitch, in which punctual interventions with flexible
contracting contributed to the objectives planned. Nonetheless, the procurement of goods such
as the school packages of basic educational material were distributed a year and a half after the
disaster.
VI.- PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT OF THE WORLD BANK
In general terms, it can be asserted that the performance of the World Bank throughout the
evolution and execution process of the Project was satisfactory. The impressions of the
Borrower for each stage of the process are detailed below.
1.    Preparation and design. The performance is considered satisfactory due to the fact
that World Bank officers had an intensive participation in the process, and the results of the
design responded to all the requirements of the education sector in those days. In this sense,
the Bank team motivated the local team to work with clear and relevant objectives and to
design the most adequate components in order to achieve the said objectives. As it was
mentioned above, a problem that can be pointed out is the infrastructure component in the
design process, which did not consider the situation that could rise when trying to combine the
action of FISE, which has a wider horizon when planning, with a short term project with
different mandates.
2.    Supervision. The performance of the World Bank in the supervision stage was
satisfactory. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the MECD felt the need to have a closer
participation of the Bank team at the beginning of the Project, although this situation did not
cause major problems. Likewise, the change of three Task Managers in the execution of the
Project did not affect significantly the implementation of the Project The MECD, however,
points out the problems in the specific area of procurement, in which the lack of attention to
the needs of the Borrower on behalf of the Bank's procurement staff and the way of handling
the problem in this respect was not satisfactory. On the other hand, in some cases, the
overload of work in the disbursement area of the Bank resulted in delays which affected the
execution of the Project.
- 21 -



MONITORING INDICATORS
TOTAL
COMPONENT                      UNIT            PROGRAMMED  EXECUTED  %
1. Decentralization
Municipal Educational Councils    Municipality    117           10             9%
Autonomous Centers             Center          165              1,937          1,173.94%
Technical Assistance to MED    Person/         58               121            208%
Month
Personnel Training             Event           167              139            83%
Incentives to Teachers         Teacher        2,916             9,306          319%
Maintenance Programs of        Project         222              243            109%
Schools
2. Educational Materials
Textbooks                      Thousand        2,533            4,778          188%
Exercise books                 Thousand        4,750            4,319          91%
Guide books                    Thousand        16               158            987%
Technical Assistance           Person/         67               86             128%
month
3. Expansion of Preschool
Education
Children's Registration        Person          76,900           86,000         120%
Parent's Registration          Person          74,900           35,000         53%
Community Teachers             Person!        2,701             4,200          168%
year
Community Centers              Center          2,196            3,700          188%
Personnel Training             Event           1,250            1,110          134%
International Consultants      Person/         16               5              31%
- 22 -



Month
Local Consultants              Person/        66               123            193%
Month
Itinerant Trainees             Person         145              134            119%
Teacher's Manuals              Unit           3,596            6,765          200%
Plate illustrations for parents  Unit         211,751          454,800        214%
Manual and guides for parents  Unit           3,216            60,841         1,891%
Manual for Itinerant trainees  Unit           200              308            154%
Supervision Manuals           Unit            200              13,200         8,928%
Introductory exercise books    Package        174,000          165,726        95%
Consumable Materials           Package        6,792            21,361         314%
Durable Materials              Package        3,000            3,921          130%
Furiture for centers           Set            2,196            3,366          153%
4. Infrastructure
Replacement of classrooms      Unit           415              514            123%
Rehabilitation of classrooms   Unit           735              77             10%
Furniture for classrooms       Classroom      1,150            591            51%
Rehabilitation of sanitation   Unit           3,890            175            4%
services
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners fNGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Additional information is included in the Borrower Completion Report, in which detailed
descriptions of the output for each component are included. The ICR' analysis benefited
substantially from the Borrower documents as well as extensive collaboration with Project
staff in the elaboration of this document. For additional documentation, please consult Annex
7, which includes those documents in the project file.
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected In last PSR                  ActualULatest Estimate
Improved Efficiency                                                          Improved
Increased Quality                                                           Increased
Increased Equity                                                             Unknown
Reduced Repetition Rates                                                     Reduced
Reduced Dropout Rates                                                        Unknown
Enhanced Student A_hievement                                                 Unknown
Output Indicators:
IndJcator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
MUNICIPAL EDUCATION COUNCILS: 117 10 Municipal Education Councils            10 Municipal Education Councils formed,
Municipal Education Councils to be formed                                    because the model was changed.
and trained
AUTONOMOUS SCHOOLS: 165 schools  1,937 Autonomous Centers                    1,937 schools became Autonomous Centers
under autonomous school model
MECD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: 58         121 Consultant/Months                  121 ConsultantMonths provided technical
Consultant/Months provided technical                                         assistance to MECD to assume its new
assistance to the MECD in its new roll                                      functions at the central and departmental
levels
STAFF TRAINING: 167 events providing    139 workshops conducted              139 events were held to support MECD staff
managerial training for local school council
members and central and departmental
MECD staff
TEACHER INCENTIVES: 2,916 primary    9,306 teachers receiving incentives     9,306 primary teachers received performance
teachers received performance Incentives                                    incentives to encourage continuos and
regular attendance
SCHOOL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM: 222 243 repair projects                          243 projects were financed to repair the
Projects for autonomous schools                                              physical plant by SIMCEP.
maintenance. This program will finance
small repairs to the physical plan.
TEXTBOOKS: 2,5 million textbooks to be    3,069,000 textbooks purchased and  4,778,000 textbooks distributed. Books of
acquired and distributed              distributed                            Mathematics, Spanish, Natural Science.
EXERCISE BOOKS, 4,7 million exercises  4,319,000 exercise books distributed  4,319,000 exercises books printed and
books printed and distributed                                                distributed
TEXT GUIDES, 16,000 text guides printed   74,000 text guides distrbuted      74,000 text guides printed and distributed
and distributed
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, 67              86 consultants/months for technical    86 consultants/months for technical
consultant/months for technical assistance   assistance                      assistance
CHILDREN ENROLLED, 76,900 children    86,000 children enrolled               86,000 children enrolled in pre-primary
enrolled in pre-primary education                                            education. Target expanded by improving the
educatonal content of existing community
children centers
PARENTS ENROLLED, 74,900 parents    35,000 parents enrolled                  35,000 parents enrolled
enrolled
COMMUNITY EDUCATORS, 2,701            4,200 community educators enrolled     4,200 community educators enrolled in the
- 24 -



community teachers attended pre-prnmary                                   program
community centers
COMMUNITY CENTERS 2,196 community  3,700 community centers overthe entre    3,700 community centers over the entire
centers                              country                              country
STAFF TRAINING 1,250 training events    1,110 training events             1,110 training events
INTERNATIONAL TRAINERS, 16           5 intemational consultants           5 intemational consultants
intemational consultants
LOCAL CONSULTANTS 66 national        123 national consultants             123 national consultants
consultants
ITINERANT TRAINERS: 145 itnerant     134 itinerant trainers               134 tinerant trainers
trainers to train community educators
EDUCATOR MANUALS: 3,596 printed and 6,765 educator manuals pnnted and     6,765 educator manuals printed and
distributed educator manuals for community  distributed                   distributed
educators
PARENT GUIDES: 211,751 parent guides to 454,800 parent guides prdnted and distributed 454,800 parent guides printed and distributed
promote parents involvement in children
educational development activities
PARENT COMMITTEE GUIDES: 3,216    59,841 parent committee guides printed and  60,841 parent committee guides printed and
parent committee guides              distributed                          distributed
ITINERANT TRAINER MANUALS: 200    308 itinerant trainer manuals           308 itinerant trainer manuals
itinerant trainer manuals
SUPERVISION MANUALS: 200 manuals   13,200 manuals printed and distributed for  13,200 manuals printed and distributed for
printed and distributed to support supervision supervision                supervision
activities
CHILDREN'S READINESS PACKAGES:   165,726 packages for reading beginners    165,726 packages for reading beginners
174,000 packages for reading start-up
CONSUMABLE MATERIALS: 6,792          21,361 consumable materials packages  21,361 consumable materials packages
packages of consumable materials for using distributed                    distributed
in the classroom
DURABLE MATERIALS: 3,000 durable     3,921 durable materials distributed to be  3,921 durable materials distributed to be
materials to be distributed          used by prewprimary children         used by prprimary children
FURNITURE FOR CENTERS: 2,196         3,366 fumiture sets distributed for using in  3,366 fumiture sets distributed for using in
funiture sets to be distributed to community  community pre-primary centers  community pre-primary centers
centers
CLASSROOM REPLACEMENT: 415           418 classroom replacements           435 cassrooms were replaced over the
classrooms to be replaced over the country                                country
CLASSROOM REHABILITATION: 735        77 classrooms to be rehablitated     77 classrooms rehabilitated
classroom rehabilitations to be performed
CLASSROOM FURNITURE: 1,150 to be    591 dassrooms equipped with fumiture  591 classrooms equipped with fumiture
equipped
SANITARY SERVICES REHABILITATION: 150 sanitary services mhabilitated       175 sanitary services rehabilitated
3,890 sanitary services to be rehabilitated
End of project
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proiect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    ActuaUlLatest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                 US$ million    US$ million
School Decentralization                                  11.30            13.71             121
Educational Materials                                    12.00            16.40             137
Expansion of Pre-Primary Education                        6.00             7.00             117
Infrastructure                                            8.50            15.35             181
Administration                                             1.50            2.60             173
Total Baseline Cost                                      39.30            55.06
Total Project Costs                39.30            55.06
Total Financing Required                 39.30            55.06
Note: Amounts include Supplemental Loan following Hurricane Mitch. Data for "Actual/Latest Estimate" column
provided by MECD in June 2001.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-  .          .       .        Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA      Govt      CoF.       ]IDA      Govt      CoF.    IDA   Govt.  CoF.
Institutional Strengthening    0.80  0.00              0.80       0.00              100.0   0.0
of MED
Institutional Strengthening    1.60  0.10              0.80       0.00              50.0   0.0
at the local level
Teacher Performance      2.40      2.30                1.50       1.20              62.5   52.2
Incenffves
Decentralized School     2.40      0.30                7.30       1.00              304.2  333.3
Maintenance Program
Support Systems          1.40      0.00                 1.11      0.00              79.3   0.0
Educational Materials    11.50     0.50                16.10      0.30              140.0  60.0
Expansion of Pre-Primary    4.80   1.20                6.20       0.80              129.2  66.7
Education
Infrastructure           7.60      0.90                13.82      1.53              181.8  170.0
Administration           1.50      0.00                2.20       0.40              146.7   0.0
Total                   34.00      5.30                49.83      5.23              146.6  98.7
Note: Amounts include Supplemental Loan following Hurricane Mitch emergency amendment. Data for
"Actual/Latest Estimate" column provided by MECD in June 2001.
- 26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis was not conducted for this project.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Missons                      _
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
4/1994                                                               S             S
S            S
Appraisal/Negotiation
9/1994
Supervision
11/1995                      2   Task Manager/Education            HS            HS
Specialist/Pre-school
Specialist
03/1996                      6   Task Manager/lnfrastructure        HS            HS
Specialist/Economist/Educator/
Procurement Spec./Pre-school
Specialist
05/1996                      1   Educator                            S            HS
07/1996                      1   Educator                           S              S
01/1997                      2   Sr. Educator/Procurement           U             S
Specialist
01/1997                      2   Sr. Educator/Procurement            S            S
Specialist
05/1997                      4   Task Manager/ Infrastructure /      S            S
Procurement & Finance
SpecialisV Infrastructure
09/1997                      3   Task Manager/Procurement            S            S
Specialist/Infrastructure
0/1998                       2   Task Manager/Education             S              S
Specialist
05/1998                      3   Task Manager/Education              S             S
Specialist/Pre-school Education
Specialist
11/1998                      2   Economist/Task Manager/            S             S
Operations Officer
02/1999                     10   Task Manager/ Operations           S              S
Officer/Procurement Spec./
FMS/Architect/1 Pre-school
Specialist' 2 Economists/2
Education Specialists
05/1999                      4   Task Manager/Operations             S             S
Assistant/Procurement
Specialist/FMS
ICR
10/2000                     2    Task Manager/Operations            S             S
Officer
-28 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              63.4                    126,742
Appraisal/Negotiation                   38.9                     73,719
Supervision                            298.0                    695,824
ICR                                      5.3                     16,646
Total                                  405.6                    912,931
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ISector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
F Physical                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
X Institutional Development              O H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OEnvironmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3 Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
F Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
-30-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
F Lending                                             OHS *S OU OHU
FE Supervision                                        OHS Os   O u  O HU
N Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
M Preparation                                         OHS  Ss   Ou   O HU
E Government implementation performance               O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agencyperformance                    O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Arcia, G. and Belli, H. (1999) "Rebuilding the Social Contract: School Autonomy in Nicaragua"
LCSHD Paper Series #40. Washington DC: The World Bank.
2. Castro, V. (1999) "Evaluaci6n de Impacto del Programa de Preescolares Comunitarios tercera fase:
1999" Managua Nicaragua: Proyecto Aprende (Processed).
3. Gershberg, A. (1997) "Reform Carts and Legislative Horses: Education 'Decentralization' Processes in
Mexico and Nicaragua." The New School for Social Research.
4. MECD (2000) "Estudio Longitudinal del Impacto de Autonomia Escolar" Managua Nicaragua:
Proyecto Aprende (Draft-Processed).
5. Zuniga Wager, A. (2000) "Misi6n de Supervisi6n de Componente de Infiaestructura del MECD"
(Ayuda Memoria, 27 de Octubre 2000)
- 32 -



