Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2689-1-NI
(Amendment)          
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Basic Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 19, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 2689-1-NI
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
Page  2
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Basic Education Project) dated March 17, 1995 (the Development Credit 
Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional assistance 
towards the financing of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million six 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR9,600,000);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
“Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 1997), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Page  3
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.””
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
Paragraph (c) is modified to read:
“(c)
“MED” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, Culture and 
Sports;”.
(b)
In paragraph (h), the word and number “Section 2.02 (b)” are replaced by 
“Section 2.02 (c)”; and
(c)
A new paragraph (i) is added to read as follows:
“(i) 
“Hurricane Mitch” means the hurricane which hit Central America with 
heavy rains from October 25 to November 1, 1998;”
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty two
 
million seven
 
hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR32,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Credit, with each withdrawal valued by the Association as of the date of such 
withdrawal.  The Credit shall be in two tranches, the first tranche being an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR23,100,000) (the First Tranche) and the second tranche being an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine
 
million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR9,600,000) (the Second Tranche).”:
Section 1.04. The following new paragraph (b) is added to Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement and the existing paragraph (b) is designated as paragraph (c):
"(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all amounts withdrawn from the 
Credit Account or made subject to a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall initially be charged against the First Tranche until that tranche has been 
exhausted, and shall thereafter be charged against the Second Tranche."
Section 1.05. A proviso is added before the semicolon at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) 
of the Development Credit Agreement, reading as follows:
“, except that any commitment charge on the Second Tranche shall accrue from a 
date sixty days after the date of this Agreement Amending Development Credit 
Agreement,”.
Section 1.06.  Schedule 1 is amended as follows:
Page  4
(a)
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement Amending Development Credit 
Agreement.
(b)
The word “; and” is deleted at the end of subparagraph (c) of paragraph 2, and 
new subparagraphs (e) and (f) are added to paragraph 2 to read as follows:
“(e)
the term “
Mochila Escolar
”
means an educational kit consisting, inter 
alia, of a uniform, and school supplies and materials; and
(f)
“FISE Executed Works” means the construction and rehabilitation works 
to be executed by FISE pursuant to the terms of the FISE Implementation 
Agreement.”
(c)
The word “; and” is deleted at the end of subparagraph (b) of paragraph 3 and 
two new subparagraphs, “(d)” and “(e)”, are added to read as follows:
“(d)
payments for expenditures under Sub-Category 1 (c), unless the FISE 
Implementation Agreement has been amended in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association to set forth FISE’s obligations in respect of the construction and 
rehabilitation of selected schools under Part D.3 of the Project (the FISE Executed 
Works); and
(e)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the Agreement 
Amending Development Credit Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not to exceed SDR960,000
 
may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after October 25, 1998.”
Section 1.07. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement.
Section 1.08. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended as set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement shall not 
become effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the 
Association that the execution and delivery of this Amending Development Credit Agreement on 
behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pur-suant to Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement, there shall be furnished to the 
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that the Agreement Amending Development 
Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf 
Page  5
of, respectively, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement shall come into 
force and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
come into force and effect by April 22, 1999 this Agreement Amending Development Credit 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association 
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending 
Development Credit Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Esteban Duque Estrada
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Page  6
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
(a)
Civil Works financed
5,730,000
90%
by the First Tranche
(b)
Civil Works financed
2,550,000
by the Second Tranche
(excluding FISE
Executed Works)
(c)
Civil Works financed
2,380,000
by the Second Tranche
for FISE Executed
Works
(2)
(a)
Goods (excluding
12,630,000
100% of foreign
Mochila Escolar
)
expenditures,
100% of local  
(b)
Mochila Escolar
2,200,000
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
85% of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Printing and
390,000
100% of foreign
distribution of
expenditures;
textbooks, training
100% of local
guides and other
expenditures (ex-
educational
factory cost); and
materials
85% of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
 (4)
Training
1,440,000
100%
 
(5)
Consultants’  
2,810,000
100%
Services (including
FISE's fee)
(6)
Teacher 
1,710,000
100% until with- 
Incentives 
drawals under this
Category have
reached an aggre-
gate amount
equivalent to
SDR480,000;
thereafter, 80%
Page  7
until withdrawals
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR1,160,000; and
thereafter, 50%
(7)
Incremental
540,000
100% until with- 
Operating Costs 
drawals under this
Subcategory have
reached an aggre-
gate amount
equivalent to
SDR210,000;
thereafter, 80% until
withdrawals have
reached an aggregate
amount
equivalent to
SDR340,000; and
thereafter, 50% 
(8)
Unallocated
320,000
TOTAL
32,700,000
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency, quality and equity of basic 
education in the Borrower’s territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: School Decentralization
1.
Provision of technical assistance and required vehicles:
(a)
(i) to restructure MED to assume its new functions under the school 
decentralization program, at the central, departmental and municipal levels; (ii) to define 
technical and pedagogical norms and administrative procedures for operation and supervision of 
the decentralized school system to be implemented by the Borrower; (iii) to reform and 
strengthen the educational supervision system and develop evaluation methods and instruments 
to assure the quality of educational processes; (iv) to study the determinants of educational costs 
per student at the pre-primary, primary and secondary levels and design a resource allocation 
system based on criteria of efficiency and equity; (v) to develop a national system of financial 
administration and control to help assure an efficient use of resources; and (vi) for study tours by 
Page  8
selected MED staff to countries in the region where successful decentralization projects are 
being implemented;
(b)
to develop the institutional capacity of the decentralized schools and municipal 
councils, so that they may be able to carry out their school management, reporting, program 
development, budgeting, financial management, maintenance program, and personnel 
management responsibilities, and to provide staff training related thereto;
(c)
to carry out a national information campaign to acquaint the educational 
community and the public at large with the purposes and the benefits of local management of 
schools and to encourage local interest and participation of parents in forming educational 
councils;
(d)
to design and implement an integrated information system that will operate at the 
central, departmental and municipal levels, with links to selected autonomous schools and 
municipalities; and
(e)
to design and implement an evaluation and monitoring system to follow up on 
accomplishments of decentralization goals and monitor results on key educational and financial 
indicators.
2.
Provision of performance incentives to primary school teachers working in schools with 
decentralized management.
3.
Carrying out of School Repair Subprojects.
Part B
: Educational Materials and Vehicles
Provision and utilization of:
(a)
textbooks for language and mathematics for first and second grade primary 
schools students; language, mathematics, social sciences and natural sciences for third to sixth 
grade primary school students; and civics for second to sixth grade primary school students;
(b)
educational materials and supplies, and back-to-school packages for students 
consisting of a uniform, exercise books, pencils and pens, ruler and erasers (
Mochila Escolar
), in 
areas affected by Hurricane Mitch; and
(c)
about 10 four wheel-drive vehicles to support outreach activities and strengthen 
MED’s capacity to supervise reconstruction efforts of Hurricane Mitch damage.
Part C
: Expansion of Pre-Primary Education
1.
Provision of technical assistance:
(a)
to develop and implement a non-formal preschool education program, and to 
improve the educational content of programs in existing community preschools and child care 
centers;
(b)
to strengthen MED’s capacity to implement and supervise the preschool 
Page  9
programs referred to in C.1 (a) above and to supervise and evaluate the expansion of informal 
preschool education coverage;
(c)
to strengthen community participation in preschool education including, inter 
alia, the fostering of parent involvement in day care centers, and the education of parents in 
various aspects of child development;
(d)
to strengthen non-governmental organizations and other agencies that attend to 
children in selected communities; and
(e)
to carry out public information, education and communication campaigns to 
promote community awareness about children and their needs.
2.
Training of MED’s staff, municipal trainers and community educators in the 
management and implementation of the preschool education programs referred to in Part C.1 (a) 
above, including the distribution of teaching manuals required therefor.
Part D
: School Infrastructure
1.
Construction
:
Construction and equipping of about 170 primary schools including the 
provision of water and basic sanitary services required for their operation.
2.
Rehabilitation
:
Rehabilitation and equipping of about 10 primary schools including the 
rehabilitation of their sanitary services.
3.
Construction and Rehabilitation in Areas Affected by Hurricane Mitch
:
Construction 
and equipping of about 315 primary schools in areas affected by Hurricane Mitch including, as 
needed, the provision of water and basic sanitary services required for their operation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.  
Procurement of Goods
Financed by the First Tranche
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, books (other than social science textbooks) and 
other goods, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with 
the following additional procedures:
(a) 
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, such 
period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 
Page  10
of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation, obtain 
necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may be 
extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide 
for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract 
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in 
the bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Association’s prior review 
in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval 
will be required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension 
exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b) 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A.1, the Borrower shall 
use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto 
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no 
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use 
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the 
Association.
2. 
To the extent practicable contracts for textbooks shall be grouped into three bid 
packages.
Part B
:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 
hereof, goods manufactured in Nicaragua may be granted a margin of preference in accordance 
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
(a)
Works under Part D of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 
or less per contract shall, and goods (including furniture) estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$150,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,700,000, social science 
textbooks estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $1,800,000, and educational kits for preschools estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate of $700,000 and educational 
supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $600,000 may, be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
In the procurement of works and goods in accordance with the procedures 
described in Part C.1 (a) hereof, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents agreed with 
the Association.
2. 
Works under Part D of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, works for School Repair 
Subprojects estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent $1,600,000, educational materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 
or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, and goods estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
Page  11
$500,000, printing services estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000, educational supplies estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000 may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained 
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
3.
Works for School Repair Subprojects estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000 may be procured through direct 
contracting consistent with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 (f) of the Guidelines, using the system 
of regional standard unit prices for direct contracting developed by FISE, and all in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a) 
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of Part A.1 
hereof and the first two contracts for goods and for works procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part C.1 (a) and C.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account 
in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other 
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be 
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) 
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to contracts on 
account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure.
2. 
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.
Section II
.  
Employment of Consultants
Financed by the First Tranche
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles 
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the “Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency” published 
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, 
Page  12
the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract 
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed 
by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III
.
Procurement of Goods and Works Financed by the Second Tranche
Part A
: General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with:
(a)
the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 and in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 
of this Part A (the Guidelines); and
(b)
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
In respect of goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
to the extent practicable, such goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each; and
(b)
given the emergency nature of the goods to be procured, the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines shall apply.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
Page  13
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Services for packaging, printing and distribution of textbooks, and except as otherwise 
provided in Part C.3 hereof works, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of works and 
services under the provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower shall use standard bidding 
documents satisfactory to the Association.
2.
International Shopping
Goods (including up to three vehicles) estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $75,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $5,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting of Goods
Textbooks purchased as an extension of contracts financed by the First Tranche and 
which had been procured following  international competitive bidding procedures, and costing 
$750,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting of Works
Works under Part D.3 of the Project to be carried out in remote areas, and costing 
$20,000 equivalent or less per contract and $1,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may 
be procured from contractors in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan 
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  14
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B.1 and C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods or works, as the case may be procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5  hereof:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting, 
the Borrower shall provide the Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section IV
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
Page  15
of consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply; provided, however, 
that the terms of reference for the respective assignments shall be subject to the Association’s 
prior review and approval.
