CREDIT NUMBER SloSCj -NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Basic Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated N exc5-e\ V1  ,1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER ;z,q NI
DEVELOPMENT CRODIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    C\a <c)" (1                        1995, between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated January 27, 1995 from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
a reform of its education sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Association in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and cof.zitions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW   iHEFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "FISE" means Fondo de Inversi6n Social de Emergencia, the Borrower's
social investment fund established as a public decentralized entity with juridical
personality pursuant to Decree No. 59-90 dated November 20, 1990 and published in the
Official Gazette on December 13, 1990, as amended by Decree No. 43-94 dated October
28, 1994;


﻿-2-
(b)    "FISE Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FISE pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such terms includes all schedules to such
agreement;
(c)    "MED" means the Borrower's ministry of education;
(d)    "Operational Guidelines for School Councils" means the guidelines to be
issued by MED pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association, for establishing administrative and financial
control procedures for municipal education councils and autonomous centers, including
rules and criteria for the payment of teachers' incentives;
(e)    "Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted by MED pursuant
to the provisions of Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association, establishing the procedures for implementation of the Project;
(f)    "School Repair Subproject" means a subproject for minor repairs of a
primary school which is eligible for financing by MED in accordance -. .i me provisions
of the School Repairs Operational Manual (as defined be1C-);
(g)    "School Repairs Operatio"al Ivianual" means the manual to be adopted by
MED pursuant to 1  provisions of Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (c) of this Agreement, in
form Lu substance satisfactory to the Association, establishing the procedures for the
promotion, identification, appraisal, approval, implementation and monitoring of School
Repair Subprojects; and
(h)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty three million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,100,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Associa".ion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in Banco Nacional de Desarrollo on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2005 and ending March 1, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2015 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever:
(i)   the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as determined by
the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars
for five consecutive years; and
(ii)  the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include,
in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above,
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
Section 2.09. The Minister of Education or the person or persons he shall
designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken undei the provisions of Section 2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through MED, with the assistance of FISE in respect of Part D of the Project, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, educational and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with monitoring indicators set forth in the Annex to a
supplemental letter of even date herewith.
(c) The Borrower shall, through MED, enter into an implementation agreement
with FISE, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
which shall include, inter alia, their respective obligations in the implementation of Part
D of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the FISE Implementation
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association,
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
FISE Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) Without limitation to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
allocate in its annual budget for calendar years 1996 through 1999 the following minimum
amounts, as counterpart funds for the financing of the Project:


﻿-6-
(i)    $500,000 equivalent for calendar year 1996;
(ii)   $1,200,000 equivalent for calendar year 1997; and
(iii)  $2,200,000 equivalent for calendar years 1998 and 1999.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, School Repair Subprojects shall be promoted, identified, appraised, approved,
carried out and monitored in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the
School Repairs Operational Manual.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association: (i) not later than January 31 and July 31 each year, a
report containing, inter alia: (A) the Project activities carried out during the preceding six
months; and (B) the expenditures made in respect of such activities; and (ii) not later than
December 31 each year, any modifications proposed for the following year in respect of
the monitoring indicators referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) not later than November 30 each year furnish to the Association for its
approval operating plans for each part of the Project to be implemented during the
following calendar year;
(c) not later than January 31 each year, review with the Association its progress
in the implementation of the Project and in meeting the monitoring indicators referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) not later than January 31, 1997 review with the Association, in addition to
the matters referred to in paragraph (c) hereof: (i) its progress in the implementation of
the Program; (ii) its progress made in the institutional strengthening of MED; and (iii) the
results of the achievement tests applied to primary school students; and
(d) if after any of the reviews referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) hereof the
Association is not satisfied.with the progress made in the carrying out of the Project: (i)


﻿-7-
not later than sixty days after the respective review, prepare a plan of action satisfactory
to the Association aimed at achieving adequate progress in the carrying out of the Project
and in meeting its objectives; and (ii) take promptly all actions included in such action
plan.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan; and
(c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and separate accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section including those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, a certified


﻿-8-
COpy Of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a)
of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
(a) MED shall have adopted the Operational Manual;
(b) the FISE Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and FISE; and
(c) MED shall have issued the Operational Guidelines for School Councils.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the FISE Implementation
Agreement has been duly authorized and ratified by the Borrower and FISE and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and FISE in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date -To V t 6       , 1995 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate or on the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua, Nicaragua
Telex:
BCN NK 2460


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NI CARAGUA
By      f                            \eia
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   4S         c~A'\T~)c
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                 5,230,000             90%
(2) Goods                       9,100,000             100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
85% of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Printing and                  200,000             100%
distribution of
textbooks, training
guides and other
educational
materials
(4) Training                    2,040,000             100%
(5) Consultants'                2,240,000             100%
Services
(including
FISE's fee)


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(6)  Teacher                    2,040,000            100% until with-
Incentives                                     drawals under this
Category have
reached an aggre-
gate amount
equivalent to
SDR 480,000;
thereafter, 80%
until withdrawals
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 1,160,000;
thereafter, 50%
until withdrawals
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 1,840,000;
and 25% thereafter


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(7) Incremental                   550,000            100% until with-
Operating Costs                                  drawals under this
Category have
reached an aggre-
gate amount
equivalent to
SDR 210,000;
thereafter, 80% until
withdrawals have
reached an aggregate
amount
equivalent to
SDR 340,000;
thereafter, 50% until
withdrawals have reached
an aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 480,000;
and 25% thereafter
(8) Unallocated                  1,700,000
TOTAL                 23,100,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;


﻿- 14 -
(c)    the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the salaries of incremental
administrative and technical staff, incremental operating costs, travel allowances for
Project supervision, maintenance of educational facilities and equipment and vehicles, and
office supplies and materials required for the implementation of the Project; and
(d)    the term "Teacher Incentives" means the bonuses to be paid to primary
school teachers in accordance with the Operational Guidelines for School Councils.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 280,000 may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 13,
1994;
(b)    payments for expenditures under Part C.2 of the Project, unless MED
shall have furnished to the Association a set of teac hing manuals, satisfactory to the
Association, for the implementation of Part C.2 of the Project; and
(c)    payments for expenditures under Part A.3 of the Project, unless MED
shall have adopted the School Repairs Operational Manual.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under Categories (6) and (7)
of the table in paragraph I of this Schedule; (b) under contracts for goods and works in
respect of which the procedures for prior review set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement will not be
required in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part D, paragraph 1 (a) of such
Schedule; and (c) for consultants services in respect of which prior review will not be
required pursuant to the provisions of Section II, paragraph 2 of such Schedule, all under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency, quality and equity of
basic education in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       School Decentralization
1.     Provision of technical assistance:
(a)    (i) to restructure MED to assume its new functions under the school
decentralization program, at the central, departmental and municipal levels; (ii) to define
technical and pedagogical norms and administrative procedures for operation and
supervision of the decentralized school system to be implemented by the Borrower; (iii)
to reform and strengthen the educational supervision system and develop evaluation
methods and instruments to assure the quality of educational processes; (iv) to study the
determinants of educational costs per student at the pre-primary, primary and secondary
levels and design a resource allocation system based on criteria of efficiency and equity;
(v) to develop a national system of financial administration and control to help assure an
efficient use of resources; and (vi) for study tours by selected MED staff to countries in
the region where successful decentralization projects are being implemented;
(b)    to develop the institutional capacity of the decentralized schools and
municipal councils, so that they may be able to carry out their school management,
reporting, program development, budgeting, financial management, maintenance program,
and personnel management responsibilities, and to provide staff training related thereto;
(c)    to carry out a national information campaign to acquaint the educational
community and the public at large with the purposes and the benefits of local management
of schools and to encourage local interest and participation of parents in forming
educational councils;
(d)    to design and implement an integrated information system that will
operate at the central, departmental and municipal levels, with links to selected
autonomous schools and municipalities; and


﻿- 16 -
(e)    to design and implement an evaluation and monitoring system to follow
up on accomplishments of decentralization goals and monitor results on key educational
and financial indicators.
2.     Provision of performance incentives to primary school teachers working in schools
with decentralized management.
3.     Carrying out of School Repair Subprojects.
Part B:       Educational Materials
Provision and utilization of textbooks for: (a) language and mathematics for first
and second grade primary schools students; and (b) language, mathematics, social sciences
and natural sciences for third to sixth grade primary school students.
Part C:       ExRansion of Pre-Primary Education
1.    Provision of technical assistance:
(a)    to develop and implement a non-formal preschool education program, and
to improve the educational content of programs in existing community preschools and
child care centers;
(b)    to strengthen MED's capacity to implement and supervise the preschool
programs referred to in C.1 (a) above and to supervise and evaluate the expansion of
informal preschool education coverage;
(c)    to strengthen community participation in preschool education including,
inter alia, the fostering of parent involvement in day care centers, and the education of
parents in various aspects of child development;
(d)    to strengthen non-governmental organizations and other agencies that
attend to children in selected communities; and
(e)    to carry out public information, education and communication campaigns
to promote community awareness about children and their needs.
2.     Training of MED's staff, municipal trainers and community educators in the
management and implementation of the preschool education programs referred to in Part
C.1 (a) above, including the distribution of teaching manuals required therefor.


﻿- 17 -
Part D:       School Infrastructure
1.     Construction: Construction and equipping of about 239 primary schools including
the provision of water and basic sanitary services required for their operation.
2.     Rehabilitation: Rehabilitation and equipping. of about 216 primary schools
including the rehabilitation of their sanitary services.
3.     Water and Sanitary Services: Provision of water and sanitary services to about 139
primary schools.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A:       International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as provided in Part C hereof, books (other than social science textbooks)
and other goods, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional procedures:
(a)    When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an
increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect
to each contract made subject to the Association's prior review in accordance with the
provisions of Part D. 1 (a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be required
for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty
(60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)    In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A. 1, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.     To the extent practicable contracts for textbooks shall be grouped into three bid
packages.
Part B:       Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part
A. 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nicaragua may be granted a margin of preference in


﻿- 19 -
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (a)    Works under Part D of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,500,000 or less per contract shall, and goods (including furniture) estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,700,000, social science textbooks estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less
per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,800,000, and educational kits for
preschools estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract up to an
aggregate of $700,000 and educational supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000 may, be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis f competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
(b)    In the procurement of works and goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part C.1 (a) hereof, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents
agreed with the Association.
2.     Works under Part D of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, works for
School Repair Subprojects estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract
up to an aggregate amount equivalent $1,600,000, educational materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$200,000, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, printing services estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$900,000, educational supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per
contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
3.     Works for School Repair Subprojects estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000 may be procured
through direct contracting consistent with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 (f) of the
Guidelines, using the system of regional standard unit prices for direct contracting
developed by FISE, and all in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 20 -
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)    With respect to each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of Part
A. 1 hereof and the first two contracts for goods and for works procured pursuant to the
provisions of Part C. 1 (a) and C.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Emplovment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.


﻿- 21 -
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 23 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or


﻿- 24 -
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)     If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


