Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                         £5U
Report No. P-2708-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR A
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
August 7, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Ringgit (M$)
M$1.00        = $0.465
$1.00         = M$2.15
M$1,000,000   = $465,116
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I long ton     =  2,240 lb
1 acre         =  0.404 ha
ABBREVIATIONS
BPM      -  Bank Pertanian Malaysia (Agricultural Credit Bank)
FA       -  Farmers Association
FAMA     -  Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority
FAO/CP   -  Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative Program
FELCRA   -  Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA    -  Federal Land Development Authority
FOA      -  Farmers' Organization Authority
RISDA    -  Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Malaysia
Beneficiary:    Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM)
Amount:          $30.0 million equivalent
Terms:           17 years, including 4 years- grace, with interest at
9.25% per annum.
Relending        The loan amount of $30.0 million would be relent to BPM on
Terms:         the same terms as in the Bank loan to Malaysia.
Project
Description:  The proposed project would help implement the Government's
policy of transferring responsibility for public sector rural
credit to BPM, and would help BPM to widen and deepen the
market for its activities in the agricultural sector. It
would include support for expanding BPM's regional branch
network, including 9 new branches and over 30 subbranches and
mobile units; help in establishing a training center, which
would increase BPM's capacity to recruit new graduates and
upgrade the skills of existing staff; provision of about 7
man-years of technical assistance to improve BPM's management;
and provision of funds for production credits and for about
8,000 medium- and long-term loans to farmers, fishermen, and
enterprises based in the rural sector. Of the estimated 80%
of these term loans which would go to smallholders, 2,500
would be made to the poorest farmers and would be instrumental
in allowing many of them to participate in the Rubber Industry
Smallholder Development Authority's rubber replanting program.
The realization of project objectives would increase BPM's
effectiveness and provide immediate benefit to farmers and
smallholders who use institutional credit and savings
facilities. The immediate project risks are small, but the
longer-term goal of institutional credit development will
require continued commitment from the Government and
dedication by BPM's management.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                      Local       Foreign        Total
Cost:                                        -------($ millions) -------
Production credits              8.7         10.3         19.0
Agricultural term lending   35.1            18.3         53.4
Branch network expansion        5.1          0.7          5.8
Training center                 0.4          0.2          0.6
Technical assistance            0.1          0.5          0.6
Total Project Cost         49.4         30.0          79.4
Financing                                      Local       Foreign        Total
Plan:                                        -------- ($ millions) ------
Government                     28.3          -           28.3
Bank                            -           30.0         30.0
Subborrowers                  21.1           -           21.1
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY:                        1982   1983   1984   1985
------ ($ millions) - ------
Annual:                          6.0      9.8   10.8    3.4
Cumulative:                      6.0    15.8   26.6   30.0
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 2855-MA, dated July 29, 1980, East
Asia and Pacific Region.



REPORT ANT) RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR A RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Malaysia for the equivalent of $30.0 million to help finance a rural
credit project.  The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of
grace, with interest of 9.25% p.a. The proceeds of this loan would be relent
to Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) under the same terms and conditions as in
the Bank loan to Malaysia. BPM would onlend the proceeds of the loan to its
subborrowers at a minimum rate of 1.5% above the prime rate in Malaysia.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA), is dated October 14, 1977.  Since that
report was circulated, a book has been prepared at the request of the
Government, which reviews the overall performance of the Malaysian economy
since 1960, discusses current issues and assesses future prospects. Entitled
"Malaysia: Growth and Equity in a Multiracial Society", the book was
published in July 1980. Detailed data on Malaysia-s economy are shown in
Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past.
The per capita income of US$1,090 in 1978 is among the highest in Southeast
Asia. During the past two decades, the Malaysian economy achieved an
average real growth of GNP of about 7% a year. This sustained high growth
rate is basically a reflection of the country's wealth in natural resources,
especially its ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented growth
strategy; good, albeit cautious, economic and financial management; and, not
the least, stable social and political institutions. Three specific factors
were important: sharp rises in productivity in the rubber sector - rises
which cushioned the effects of steep price declines and helped maintain the
Malaysian share in the world rubber market; a big push for export
diversification through rapid expansion of the production of palm oil and
the extraction of timber; and rapid manufacturing growth, which has averaged
about 13% a year since 1968 and has been increasingly oriented toward
exports.
4.        A look beyond the macroeconomic aggregates reveals that Malaysia
has been trying to overcome a serious poverty problem. Since 1960, signi-
ficant improvements have been made in raising production in agriculture,
/1 Part I is essentially the same as the corresponding section of the
President-s Report No. P-2715-MA, dated February 22, 1980 on the Ninth
Power Project (Ln. 1808-MA) which was approved on March 13, 1980.



- 2 -
diversifying output and improving social services. However, the impact of
these improvements on the incomes of the poor has been offset to a
significant extent by other factors. Continuing rapid population growth has
substantially reduced the impact of production increases on per capita
incomes. In addition, Malaysia suffered a serious and sustained terms of
trade loss during the 1960s which further reduced average real income growth
during the period.  As a result, a serious poverty problem persists:  the
Government estimates that almost 40% of the population has incomes insuffic-
ient to provide minimum requirements of food, shelter, clothing and other
basic needs. Further, this problem is complicated by considerable racial
inequalities in income and employment. Malay income on average is only
about 40% the income of Chinese and about two thirds the income of Indians.
Malays still predominate in employment in agriculture and nonMalays in the
industry and services sectors.
5.         Because the problems of poverty and racial inequalities are both
serious and persistent, the Government has given top priority to solving them.
Thus, the twin objectives of the New Economic Policy, introduced by the
Government in 1971, are to eradicate poverty and to reduce the racial
imbalance in income, employment, and the ownership of assets. More
specifically, it is targeted that by 1990 the incidence of poverty will be
reduced by two thirds, that the pattern of employment will reflect the
racial composition of the population, and that the share of Bumiputras /1 in
the ownership of the corporate sector will increase from 2% in 1970 to at
least 30% in 1990. The New Economic Policy emphasizes the need for rapid
growth in the industrial and services sectors as the principal means by
which these objectives will be attained. The Government-s long-term plan is
based on the requirement that about 2 million, or almost 90%, of the new
jobs to be created during 1975-90 would be in industry and services. This
requirement implies a substantial reduction in the share of agricultural
employment. It also implies a net shift out of agriculture of more than a
million jobs from the number that would be employed if present employment
patterns were to persist.
6.         If the targets of the New Economic Policy are to be reached, the
economy must maintain a long-term GNP growth rate of at least 8% a year.
The growth of the manufacturing sector will have to be even more rapid.
Without the expansion, employment growth of more than 3% a year will not
materialize if rural incomes are to be significantly increased. A more
moderate growth rate would substantially reduce the creation of new
employment in the modern sector and make it more difficult to achieve the
targets for restructuring employment and reducing poverty.
7.         Malaysia's strong natural resource base, together with a favorable
outlook for the prices of her major commodity exports, should provide the
/1 Bumiputra literally means "son of the soil". The word is used to refer
to Malays and other indigenous groups.



-3-
economy with sufficient- financial resources to achieve rapid growth. Aside
from short-term fluct:iations, the balance of payments current account should
continue in surplus for the foreseeable future enabling an adequate level of
reserves to be maintained together with a moderate level of debt service.
The elasticity of tax revenues should also enable the Governmeuc to finance
an expanded development program. Thus, the availability of resources, which
has not been a serious problem in the past, is expected to be even less of a
constraint in the future. Compared with most other developing countries,
Malaysia is fortunate in this respect.
8.        Although Malaysia appears to have the financial capacity to achieve
rapid growth, the economy will no longer be able to rely so heavily on rapid
growth of primary production. While Malaysia is rich in natural resources,
which will provide a reliable base for the expansion of the economy, the
growth rates of the production of such commodities as rubber, palm oil,
petroleum, and forest products are all likely to be lower than in the past.
With growth decelerating in the resource sectors, rapid industrial growth
will increasingly become essential to successful economic performance. This
imperative arises not only from the viewpoint of production and the creation
of real incomes but also from the viewpoint of employment and its racial
restructuring.
9.        In addition to rapid industrial growth, successful achievement of
the targets of the New Economic Policy will require a concerted effort to
accelerate the pace of rural development. Most of the poor live in rural
areas. Although rapid growth of industrial employment can ease the problem
of rural poverty by absorbing migrants from rural areas, poverty will
continue to be a largely rural phenomenon. Thus, even if there is rapid
sustained growth of employment in industry and services, the projections of
the Third Malaysia Plan indicate that more than three quarters of Malaysia's
poor will be in rural areas in 1990. An expansion of income and employment
opportunities for rural Malaysians is of high priority. Furthermore, the
expected decline in growth rates of the production of rubber and palm oil
makes expansion of government programs even more necessary, for example,
accelerating land development programs, increasing settler participation in
those programs, expanding programs of replanting for rubber smallholders,
expanding extension and credit for rice farmers, intensifying efforts to
promote intercropping by coconut smallholders, and improving the access of
poor families to such basic services as education, housing, electricity, and
water supply - all of which deserve priority because of the substantial
impact they can have in reducing poverty.  The greater availability of
public resources will enable the Government to undertake that expansion.
But the main constraint on mounting a more effective attack on rural poverty
appears to be the capacity of the public sector to identify and prepare
projects that can affect large numbers of rural poor.
10.       The Government does not have the direct control over private
investment that it has over public investment, but it can play a strong role
in providing a policy framework conducive to vigorous growth in the private



sector.  Because the more obvious areas of import substitution have been
exhausted, sustained rapid growth in manufacturing will have to rely
increasingly on export expansion.  Policies will, therefore, have to ensure a
favorable export environment. With regard to institutional factors, the
Government has already acted to alleviate fears in the private community
about the Industrial Coordination Act and the Petroleum Development Act.
The Government has also stressed that it will implement the Industrial
Coordination Act in a flexible and pragmatic manner so as to encourage
investment and growth.  Because much of the concern in the private sector
has been over how that Act will be implemented, flexible implementation by
the Government should help to ease the concern in the business community.
11.        In summary, the prospects appear to be good for achieving rapid
growth and for ameliorating the twin problems of poverty and racial im-
balances. Certainly there should be no serious constraints imposed by the
availability of resources. To achieve the targets of the New Economic
Policy will, nevertheless, require vigorous action by the Government along a
number of fronts. The policy framework will have to be readjusted to ensure
sustained growth of the industrial sector. A pragmatic attitude will be
needed in interpreting and implementing the quantitative restructuring
targets to ensure that sight is not lost of the overall goal of improving
the racial balance. Growth in the supply of technically trained manpower
will require close scrutiny to ensure that it does not constrain the
restructuring potential made possible by rapid economic growth.  Finally,
larger and more effective programs to reduce poverty by direct action will
require a concerted effort to expand the capacity of the public sector to
prepare and implement such programs.
12.       Assuming a continuing 7-8% rate of economic growth during the
1980s, Malaysia's balance of payments is projected to remain in modest
surplus. The cumulative current account surplus is projected to average
about 1.0% of GDP during the 1980s. Net direct investment, medium and
long-term loans equivalent to about 4.0% of GDP would be required to maintain
a reasonable level of reserves and to offset short-term and other outflows.
At present, about 14% of public debt outstanding and disbursed is from the
World Bank; this percentage may increase somewhat during the early 1980s.
Debt service is expected to be maintained at a level equivalent to about 4%
of exports. The Bank's share of debt service is currently about 10% and may
increase to about 20% by the end of the decade.
13.        In general, over the next few years, it is likely that the
Government will need less external capital than previously forecasted,
largely because of strong commodity prices and oil earnings. At the same
time, Malaysia has a serious income distribution and poverty problems. The
country needs technical assistance and expertise to help develop poverty
alleviation programs and to assist in designing and packaging projects that
reach out directly to low-income families. The Malaysians believe strongly



-5-
that project borrowing, particularly from development institutions such as
the World Bank, is necessary to assist them to mount an effective attack on
poverty. Bank lending is, therefore, focused on strengthening Government
efforts to reduce poverty directly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
14.       To date, the Bank has made 47 loans to Malaysia, totalling
US$1,102.50 million for projects in agriculture, education, population,
industrial finance, power, water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports,
railways, roads, and urban transport. Although in a number of cases disburse-
ments have been slower than expected, the execution of Bank projects in
Malaysia has generally been satisfactory. As of May 31, 1980, the effective
loans to Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to US$909.71 million.  Nineteen
loans have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans
and IFC investments, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.        Since Malaysia is currently a resource surplus country, the need
is past for Bank lending for infrastructure projects. The Bank-s present
lending strategy in Malaysia is to support the Government's programs to combat
the deep-rooted problem of poverty in the country, particularly in the rural
areas. The thrust of this strategy is not simply to provide financial support
to poverty alleviation projects but to develop an institutional and policy
framework to enable the Malaysians eventually to design and implement anti-
poverty programs independently. With this in mind, the Bank has proposed
to undertake projects with relevant institutions, such as the Agricultural
Credit Bank (BPM), the Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
(FELCRA), the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA), and
area and state development agencies in the poorer states in Malaysia which
should broaden their experience in the designing of projects and servp as a
basis for building managerial and technical skills within these institutions.
Technical assistance of this nature with a financial underpinning is con-
sidered to be the most effective way in which the Bank can best support the
Malaysian development at present.
16.       Malaysia's own commitment to assist its low-income groups has been
strengthened significantly in the past few years. The Bank has been heavily
involved in helping Malaysia identify and prepare projects geared toward the
rural poor. Prior to 1975, this was done primarily through expansion of
irrigation and land development as means of expanding output, taising incomes
and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural households,
greater emphasis has since been given to programs designed to raise produc-
tivity in existing smallholder areas. The number of rural development
projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is impressive. Six
rural development projects were financed in the last three years, which
include improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of



tree crops, national extension and research. At least sixteen additional
rural development projects have been identified for possible Bank support in
the coming five years.
17.       The Government's capability to develop such projects, however,
remains weak, largely because of a shortage of trained manpower. With the
help of UNDP-financed and Bank-executed State and Rural Development Project,
which provides technical assistance to selected federal and state agencies,
the Bank is helping the Government to develop further its programs and pro-
jects for reducing poverty.  The proposed project is the first step in
assisting the Government to develop its public institutional credit system
through the expansion of the agricultural loan portfolio of BPM. This
operation will specifically provide technical assistance to BPM to become a
more effective institution in time to take over the lending operations in
the agricultural sector of other public agencies and also to build up a
credit network to provide greater accessibility to the smallholders. The
Bank had not in the past undertaken an operation that aimed at providing
technical support to an institution whose main function is to provide credit
to smallholders. Past operations, however, have included credit components
in the context of an agricultural or rural development project to assist
institutions, such as the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) whose
primary function is to promote new land settlements and not provision of
credit.
18.       As a part of its lending strategy, the Bank proposes to continue
its involvement in the education sector in Malaysia by concentrating more
heavily in the future on technical and skill training. It is also seeking
new initiatives in providing support to the manufacturing sector and in
promoting the growth of small-scale industry to enable the Government to
realize its growth, employment and restructuring objectives. Assistance to
infrastructure will be selective, concentrating on providing access to rural
areas and rural electrification.
19.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling US$8.69 million.
The total investments held by IFC as of May 31, 1980 amounted to US$1.14 mil-
lion (Annex II).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
20.       Malaysian agriculture has a strong comparative advantage in tropi-
cal tree crops which explains the dominance of rubber, coconut palm and oil
palm. Altogether, 8 million acres have been brought under cultivation in
Peninsular Malaysia, of which almost 6 million are devoted to rubber and oil
palms. Nearly two thirds of the rubber acreage is in smallholdings. The



only other major crop is paddy, with one million acres. Other crops (all
below 100,000 acres each) are pineapple, cocoa, tapioca, sugarcane, tobacco,
coffee and groundnuts.
21.       Over the past decade, physical output in the sector has grown
strongly. Rubber output has expanded by 100% and palm oil by 300%. In
addition, rice output has expanded by 90% due largely to improved irrigation
and double cropping; on average, rice imports have fallen to only 10% of
annual consumption. Despite an adverse movement in the terms of trade faced
by the sector, particularly by rubber producers, this remarkable expansion
in physical output has been sufficient to maintain an averge annual growth of
5.5% for the sector in real terms, which has been one of the highest
agricultural sector growth rates in the world. However, the decline in
sectoral terms of trade has had the effect of holding sector growth rates
below the average rate of 7.5% p.a. attained by the economy as a whole.
This situation is not expected to reverse itself. As a result, the place of
the sector in the economy, for which it provided 29% of GDP, 44% of employ-
ment and 40% of export earnings in 1978, will continue a slow but steady
decline in relative importance. In other words, despite high growth in the
sector, income and employment opportunities outside the sector will expand
even faster.
22.       The agricultural sector's rapid growth has taken a highly dualistic
form, with modern and traditional agricultural production occurring side by
side. One result of this pattern is that 55% of Malaysia's rural households
(25% of the national population) live in absolute poverty despite development.
Objectives
23.       The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are:
(a)  to increase incomes in agriculture as rapidly as possible;
(b) to alleviate rural poverty and to redress interregional and
intergroup income disparities;
(c) to maintain over time some reasonable relationship between
agricultural incomes and incomes earned in other sectors; and
(d) to generate employment opportunities for new entrants to
the labor force.
Strategies
24.       The Government's efforts to pursue these objectives involve the
following five major strategies:



- 8 -
(a)  the absorption of surplus and low productivity labor from agri-
culture into more productive jobs in the industrial and services
sectors. To this end, the Government is pursuing a policy of
rapid growth and investment in human resources within rural
areas;
(b)  new land development in order to generate additional employment
within agriculture at adequate income levels;
(c)  increased emphasis on raising productivity and incomes
in existing traditional smallholder agriculture;
(d)  increasing transfer payments to rural people in cases where
movement out of agriculture, or increasing their incomes from
agriculture, are not feasible; and
(e)  increasing export earning, especially from tree crops, to
finance the industrial and other investments needed to
achieve rapid economic growth.
25.        Field operations of agricultural programs in existing smallholder
areas are vested in state departments of agriculture and several single-
purpose federal agencies, e.g., Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA),
Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA), Federal Land
Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), Livestock Development
Authority and Fisheries Development Authority. Major emphasis is being
placed upon improving coordination among these various entities and
increasing their individual capacity for effective implementation. In
addition, because of its increased emphasis on raising productivity within
areas of traditional agriculture, the Government is placing greater reliance
on general purpose agencies such as the Farmers- Organization Authority
(FOA), and service agencies such as Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.        The proposed project was prepared by the staff of BPM and the
FAO/CP, in conjunction with the public servants of various ministries and
with assistance from the Bank. It was appraised in September 1979. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Rural Credit Project" (No. 2855-MA, dated
July 29, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
June 12 to June 18, 1980, with the Malaysian delegation led by Datuk
Sallehuddin Mohamed, the Deputy Secretary General of the Treasury.
Rural Credit System and the Role of BPM
27.        The commercial banks and finance companies have not actively lent
to smallholders despite encouragement by Bank Negara (the Malaysian Central



- 9 -
Bank) to do so. Institutional credit is provided by many public sector
agencies. Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA), which is the umbrella
organization of Farmers Associations (FAs) and Farmers' Cooperatives, and
BPII between them are currently providing about two thirds of all institu-
tional credit, with the bulk of the remainder provided by FELCRA, FELDA,
RISDA and the Federal Agricultural Mlarketing Authority (FAMA). Institu-
tional credit amounts to no more than 10-15% of the total credit taken by
smallholder families, of which no more than half is currently provided by
BPM. Despite the provision of credit by various public sector agencies,
traditional informal suppliers, such as pawnbrokers, shopkeepers and rich
farmers, remain the dominant sources for smallholders. Although these
informal suppliers charge effective rates of interest that range from 30% to
over 100% per annum, they provide strong competition to institutional
sources and limit expansion of their activities. They can do so because
most smallholders attach less weight to interest cost than to the
transaction costs (including paperwork and time) involved in dealing with
institutional credit sources.
28.       Since informal sources are ready and able to advance funds to
smallholders with the minimum of formalities, the purpose of developing the
public institutional credit system is not primarily to add liquidity to the
sector, but to alter the terms and conditions upon which credit and savings
facilities are available to smallholders, thereby correcting some important
biases and defects of the traditional system. The most fundamental problems
faced by the smallholder in this respect are an absence of savings
facilities, an almost complete lack of term credit to finance long-lived
capital investments, and the accumulation of economic and social power in
the hands of moneylenders who meet smallholders' short-term cash needs.
29.       To bring about necessary changes, the Government realizes it
cannot rely on private sector institutions to take the initiative, but must
develop an institutional credit system that can compete effectively with the
moneylenders by providing a level of accessibility, convenience and flexi-
bility similar to that now offered by the informal system. The institu-
tional development of BP2I and particularly the improvement of its system of
grassroots credit delivery offer the best means of achieving this objective.
One immediate obstacle is the multiplicity of institutional schemes,
offering credit on widely differing terms and conditions. The Government,
therefore, proposes that BPM assume the overall responsibility for
institutional credit and anticipates that as it grows in competence, BPM
will absorb other agency credit schemes. This will have the ancillary
benefit of allowing other agencies to concentrate upon their primary
function.
Organization and Management of BPM
30.       BPM was incorporated under the Bank Pertanian Act of 1969, which
defines BPII's objectives as:  to promote sound agricultural development; to
coordinate and supervise all public sector credit to agriculture; to provide
loans, advances and credits for agricultural development, production and



- 10 -
marketing; and to mobilize savings in and for the sector.  In 1970, BPM
started operations by providing paddy production credits.  Its scope has
progressively widened since then to include medium- and long-term lending.
In principle, the Government and BPM management now seek to meet all the
financing needs of smallholders.
31.        BPM is a wholly government-owned corporation under the Ministry of
Agriculture. Supervision of its operations is in the hands of a Board of
six Directors who are appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, with the
exception of the Chairman who is appointed by the King. The Chairman is
also the Managing Director and has direct control of the key staff depart-
ments: Internal Audit, Research and Planning, Personnel and Training. Line
Management is in the hands of a General Manager, appointed by the Board, who
reports to the Chairman/Managing Director. He not only controls the line
responsibilities of Administration, Finance, Credit and Banking and Invest-
ments, but also two staff functions: Legal and Systems.
32.        Overall, BPM is administratively sound.  At the end of 1979 it had
a total staff of 560, of which 340 were located at 17 branches, 4 sub-
branches and 3 village units located throughout the country.  In the booming
Malaysian economy, the demand for professionals outpaces supply. Conse-
quently, BPM has found it necessary to develop an Executive Trainee Program
which prepares directly recruited university and college graduates for
professional responsibilities in BPM. It has also developed in-house
training programs to upgrade the skills of existing staff. However, its
operational structure, staffing and systems show the stresses common to
relatively new and expanding organizations.
33.        BPM-s lending is restricted to financing of projects in support of
agricultural production and the provision of production credits to small-
holders. BPM½s lending policies are conservative. Project appraisals are
very detailed. Loan amounts are limited to 80% of project cost; loans are
secured by charges against fixed and floating assets, with the exception of
production credits where guarantors are satisfactory security; disbursement
is made against documented project progress. Typical rates and maturities
are detailed in para. 41. While these lending policies will remain appro-
priate in the case of large loans some revision in the policies would
assist BPM to reach a larger number of smallholders. However, a prior step
,ill be the development of investment models, and profiles of present and
potc  lai borrowers.  For this purpose a credit specialist will be provided
under the project (para. 39).
Financial Position and Prospects of BPM
34.        Tn the past several years, BPM has been successful in mobilizing
deposits. By the end of December 1978, deposits reached $242.5 million or
81% of total funds, but more than 75% of these funds were deposited by cor-
porate bodies for short period, while less than 5% represented mobilization
of rural savings. The remaining funds were composed of low-interest Govern-
ment loans ($23.5 million), share capital held by the Government ($18.8



- 11 -
million), commercial bank deposits directed by Bank Negara ($13.1 million),
and reserves ($0.5 milion).
35.       Although BRY-s agricultural credit operations have been growing at
an annual rate of over 30% in recent years, agricultural loan portfolio has
been small in relation to its investment portfolio because of a shortage of
long-term funds and an inadequate spread whi(h resulted in losses for
agricultural lending. In 1978 fiscal year, the marginal cost of funds was
7% while the administrative cost of credit operations was 5.5%. Since the
Government imposes an upper limit on BPM s agricultural lending rate of 1.5%
above prime (equal to 9% in early 1980), every increase in agricultural
lending tended to weaken its financial position. Due to this unfavorable
situation, BPM has had to depend heavily on other profitable opportunities,
particularly in money market operations. BPM has attempted to match the
growth of deposits with an increase in money market operations, which gave a
net margin of 0.1% and helped offset the losses due to agricultural lending.
At the end of December 1978, the amount of such investments in the money
market reached $209.3 million in comparison with a total agricultural loan
portfolio of $60.9 million.
36.       Loan approvals in 1978 were $56.0 million, an increase of 160%
from loan approvals of $17.4 million in 1974. About 40% were for paddy and
tobacco production and 40% for estate development. The average size of
loans also decreased from $33,000 in 1974 to $10,500 in 1978. In
particular, the new lending categories for small loans such as pineapple
planting and small forestry projects have contributed to the reduction in
size of loans.
37.       At end-1978 the overall level of arrears in BRM s portfolio was
26.4%; slightly more than half of these arrears had been outstanding for
more than one year. In general, collections from smallholders have been
maintained successfully with the exception of paddy production credits.
Following the drought in 1977, 59% were still in arrears at end-1978.
Up to 30% of paddy loans may have to be written off at a cost of $1.6
million. The other major source of arrearage problems is with certain large
loans. Of the ten largest loans, accounting for 44% of the portfolio,
eight were in arrears. Losses could be as high as $3.5-$5.0 million.
Altogether, bad debts are likely to be in the range of $5.5 to $7.0 million.
Since the current limits on BP4Ms lending rate do not allow it to be
financially self-sustaining, the assistance of government subsidies will be
needed to maintain BPM s viability (para. 50).
Project Objectives
38.       The three most important and related constraints curbing BPM's
development are the cost of money, the availability and use of skilled
manpower, and the absence of an effective village-level delivery system
for credit. The proposed project is designed to address these issues and



- 12 -
provide the necessary first phase of an extensive evolution which will last
about a decade, during which BPM's loan portfolio in the agriculture sector
is expected to grow at least fourfold.  In light of the Government-s long-
term objectives, the goals of the project are:
(a)  to increase the breadth of BPM's coverage of the agricultural
sector through an expansion of its branch network, and the
incorporation of credit programs managed by other institutions;
(b)  to increase the depth of BPM's penetration of the sector by
simplifying and streamlining its credit processing procedures
and providing smallholders with a service that is prompt, easily
accessible, and reliable; and
(c)  to introduce a system of financial and management controls, so that
BPM can monitor its financial stability, efficiency, and need for
financial resources, and make corporate plans for its future
development.
Detailed Features of the Project
39.       The project would assist BPM to implement a three-year time slice
of its development program and would finance the following components:
(a)  BPM's planned branch expansion for 1981-83, which would increase
BPM's penetration of areas of rural poverty and improve small-
holders access to its services. In each of the three project
years, three branches, six subbranches, and five mobile units
would be set up. BPMs staff would expand by-375 personnel, of
whom 200 would be professionals;
(b)  a training center for BPM to provide 300 man-months of in-service
training in each of the three project years to upgrade the tech-
nical skills of present staff; 360 man-months of initial training
and classroom instruction each year for graduates entering
professional positions; and about 20 three-day orientation courses
each year for a total of 350 participants such as fisheries
extension officers and leaders of FAs;
(c) technical assistance comprising:
(i) 24 man-months for introducing modern systems of corporate
planning and control;
(ii) 24 man-months for the design and operation of accessible
and convenient credit delivery systems for smallholders;
(iii) 12 man-months for the design and operation of effective
training programs; and



- 13 -
(iv) 24 man-months for various new elements of BPM's lending
program.
(d) BPM's incremental agricultural lending during 1981-83. The size
discribution of BPM's new term lending would ensure that poorer
farmers represent a significant proportion of additional benefi-
ciaries, and 80% of term loans reimbursed by the Bank (in value
equal to 25% of total relending) would be for amounts below
$14,000 (Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement).
The branch expansion would give BPM coverage of all states in the Peninsula
and in East Malaysia and would tilt the balance of BPM's branching activity
in favor of the poorer states such as Kelantan, Trengganu, and Pahang. The
proportion of loans to be directed to small farmers during the project
period is the maximum feasible, but the work of the experts on credit delivery
systems and corporate planning and control is intended to enhance BPM-s
capacity to reach small farmers in the years following the project.
Project Cost and Financing
40.        The total project cost (inclusive of taxes and duties) is estimated
at $79.4 million, of which $30.0 million or 38% represents foreign exchange.
The proposed loan of $30.0 million would finance the full foreign exchange
cost of the project, equivalent to 42% of the project cost, exclusive of
taxes and duties.  The project cost consists of $19.0 million in production
credits, $53.4 million in agricultural investments, $5.8 million to finance
the expansion of BPMs branch network, $0.6 million for a new training center,
and $0.6 million for technical assistance. For branch network expansion,
training and technical assistance, the Bank would finance $1.9 million (27%)
of the cost and the Government $5.1 million (73%). On-farm costs, including
estate development, would be provided by the sub-borrowers ($21.2 million or
29%), the Government ($23.2 million or 32%), and the Bank ($28.1 million, or
39%). Unit prices for equipment, materials, supplies and civil works are
based on recent quotations received for such items in Malaysia. Technical
assistance is estimated to require about 84 man-months at a total cost of
about $590,000. The average man-month cost (based on fees, international
travel and local allowances) is expected to be about $7,000. The total
estimated cost of technical assistance includes provision for the cost of
vehicles, local travel and some other minor items.
Relending Terms
41.        The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk and relend the
proceeds of the Bank loan to BPM on the same rates, terms, and conditions as
the Bank loan, namely 9.25% p.a. with a maturity of 17 years, and a grace
period of 4 years. BPM will relend to settlers and smallholders at a mini-
mum interest rate of 1.5% over prime for production credits and loans to



- 14 -
smallholders participating in RISDA replanting schemes. This rate would
currently be 9%, which is consistent with the 9-11% presently charged by
commeri)l hanks for agricultural loans.  In comparison, inflation during
the past three years has averaged about 5%, and is expected to remain at
that level for the next few years. The length of maturities and the fre-
quency of repayments would depend on the subborrower's financing capacity.
The most extended terms permitted are typically: for trawler loans 5 years'
maturity, with 1 year's grace; for cocoa smallholdings 7 years' maturity,
with 1 year's grace; for pepper smallholders 7 years' maturity, with 2
years' grace; for oil palm smallholdings 10 years' maturity, with 4 years'
grace; and for rubber smallholdings 15 years' maturity, with 8 years' grace.
Loans in support of estates development would have the same maturities as
for rubber and oil palm smallholder loans, but rates would be 1.5-2.0%
higher. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that no material changes
in the above terms and conditions would be made without prior consultation
with the Bank (Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement).
Procurement
42.       For equipment or construction partially financed by funds relent
for beneficiaries' subprojects, procurement would be undertaken in accord-
ance with established commercial practices. Major international manufac-
turers are well represented in the local economy, and there are sufficient
local private contractors to ensure efficient construction work. BPM's
normal procedures ensure competitive bidding and are acceptable to the Bank.
43.       In the development of new branches and establishment of its
training center BPM would be permitted to purchase miscellaneous equipment
items costing less than $5,000 each under arrangements for prudent local
shopping, up to a maximum total amount of $500,000. Otherwise, local
competitive bidding arrangements would apply for both construction and
equipment. The proposed civil works are too small and too widely scattered
to interest international contractors. The competitiveness of local markets
will ensure economic efficiency of contracts, but any contract in excess of
$250,000 would be submitted to the Bank for approval before contract award.
Disbursement
44.       The loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 67% of BPM's disbursements of subloans in eligible categories,
against quarterly statements approved by the Treasury;
(b)  85% of the cost of civil works and equipment contracts for branch
expansion, and construction and equipping of a training center,
where these contracts fulfill a development program submitted to and
approved by BPM's board;



- 15 -
(c) 85% of the cc-7t of prudent shopping for equipment items in support
of BPM-s approved program for branch expansion and for equipping
a training center, against certified statements of expenditure;
(d)  85% of the total cost of technical assistance and c. tract
lectures.
It is expected that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1984,
approximately 18 months after the end of the construction period.
Project Management
45.        The primary implementing agency would be BPM.  The Fourth Malaysia
Plan, which is still under preparation, will set overall development
objectives for the agricultural sector, from which BPM management will be
able to derive measurable goals and targets governing the expansion of its
liabilities and asset- (e.g. in terms of region, income class, ethnic group,
and production subsector served by its agricultural loans). The Treasury
would provide general financial supervision and periodically examine BPM's
performance and effectiveness (para. 50).
46.        Growth of BPM-s loan portfolio is constrained by the availability
of long-term funds. Funds provided under the project would be blended with
Treasury funds and would provide an interim solution to this problem.
Technical assistance envisaged under the project would help BPM management
and the Treasury to evolve different arrangements for a long-term solution
(such as the development of more favorable spreads). One distinct weakness
in BPM-s balance sheet arises from its past involvement with three wholly
owned subsidiaries which are unrelated to BPM's primary purpose. By
end-1978, these ventures had absorbed $14 million, or 5%, of BPM's assets.
All of the ventures accumulated large losses and, at the Government's
insistence, strong management is being introduced at the level of a holding
company, with instructions to turn the subsidiaries around or close them
down. No further infusion of equity or new loans would be made by BPM to
these subsidiaries (Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement).  BPM's accounts
have been audited, with some delay and reservations, by the Auditor General.
Separate project accounts would not be necessary, since the project
encompasses the whole of BPM's growth for a three-year time slice. BPM's
overall accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of the
fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement).
47.        A key test of project management would be the cooperation that
develops between RLSDA and BPM as the latter takes over RISDA-s credit
activities. The success with which the two agencies work together would
determine the feasibility of the Government-s policy for eventually handling
all agency credit through BPM. A coordinating committee formed from, and
including the heads of, the planning departments of both BPM and RISDA has



- 16 -
agreed on the terms and conditions of future credits, as well as the
functional demarcation of responsibilities for each stage of the credit
process, from identification to collection. This committee would remain in
existence to supervise and evaluate progress throughout project implementation
(Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).
48.        To implement its program of branch expansion, BPM would have to
expand its professional staff (defined as those with tertiary-level training)
from 350 at the end of 1979 to 550 at the end of 1983. It also expects to
appoint about 25 managers from its present staff, with corresponding increases
in the responsibility of staff at all levels below. The training component of
the project would provide the implementation capacity to achieve these
objectives: it would tailor courses to the increased responsibilities of
existing staff and would enhance the effectiveness of BPM's Trainee Executive
Program, through which 90% of new professional-level recruits would be hired.
BPM headquarters staff would grow by only 10%, with other new staff deployed
throughout its network of existing and new branches (Section 3.04 of the
Project Agreement).
49.        The technical assistance component of the project is designed to
augment BPM's capacity to manage its rapid growth. It would ensure a steady
improvement in corporate control and planning as expansion proceeds; help
maintain the relevance of training courses to changing staff needs; and
assist in the development of flexible credit and savings programs, so that
BPM's market share grows at least in line with its expansion. In particular,
while BPM's system of accounts provides highly detailed financial reporting
to management, information is not available quickly and in a form that pro-
vides management with a clear view of the profitability of particular pro-
jects, schemes, or bank branches. This weakness in management information
would become progressively more costly to BPM and to eliminate it, the project
is designed to provide technical assistance to management in improving the
system. The consultant selected to provide assistance in introducing modern
systems of corporate planning and financial controls would take up his
appointment by December 31, 1980 (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
50.        BPTI would enhance its capability to monitor and evaluate its own
performance, in part through the use of consultants to assist in improving
systems of financial control, corporate planning, and the cost effectiveness
of different credit delivery systems and savings programs.  The Treasury would
establish and maintain a permanent review mechanism to oversee BPM's financial
efficiency. BPM would provide the Treasury with financial statements and
quarterly progress reports. These reports would include information on the
status of the loan portfolio, any changes in lending rates, implementation of
training programs and use of consultants. This information would allow the
Treasury to estimate on a quarterly basis the amount of government subsidy
which may be required to maintain BPM's financial viability (para. 37).



- 17 -
This reporting requirement will be reflected in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Treasury and BPM, which is a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). BPM will also prepare annual
operating and financial plans for submission to the Government at least two
months prior .o the beginning of each fiscal year (Section 4.06 of the
Project Agreement). These plans and reports would be available for inspec-
tion by Bank staff during supervision.
Production, Markets and Prices
51.       At full development in the early 1990s, incremental project
generated production would amount to about 21,000 tons of rubber, 28,000
tons of oil palm, and 400 tons of pepper. This incremental production would
be easily absorbed by the world market, given its very small relative size
and projected supply-demand conditions. Marketing channels exist for all
three commodities. For rubber and oil palm, very efficient private bulking
and milling facilities throughout the country could serve both estates and
smallholders. Pepper is efficiently graded, processed, and marketed by the
Pepper Marketing Board in Sarawak.
Benefits and Risks
52.       Realization of the project objectives outlined in para. 38 would
improve BPM-s performance and immediately benefit the additional farmers and
smallholders who use institutional credit and savings facilities. The proj-
ect would provide funds for production credits and for about 8,000 medium-
and long-term loans to farmers, fishermen, and enterprises based in the
rural sector. It is estimated that 80% of these loans would go to small-
holders, and 2,500 would be made to the poorest farmers-and would be instru-
mental in allowing many of them to participate in RISDA-s rubber replanting
program. The analysis of indicative subproject investments shows economic
rates of return between 16% and 30% and average economic rate of return
close to 20%. The important benefits to be reaped from the proposed project
in the longerterm are those which flow from an efficient institutional credit
system. In summary they are: improved efficiency in the banking system
leading to economic efficiency and welfare gains in the whole agricultural
sector; improvement in the Government-s control of agricultural credit;
provision of a means for offsetting the predictable drain of liquidity from
the sector; and improvement in the effectiveness of other government agencies
following the transfer of their credit programs to BPM. Longer-term benefits
will not arise directly from the present project, but only over a span of
perhaps ten years, during which the Bank would expect to continue its support
to BPM.
53.       No major risks are foreseen in the implementation of the project.
The critical constraint on BPM's development is institutional, particularly



- 18 -
the availability of qualified staff. Proposed expansion plans have been
tailored to these constraints. The feasibility of managing an innovative
and financially self-sustaining rural credit system has been demonstrated by
other Laiik borrowers.  The approach most suitable for Malaysia can certainly
be arrived at during project implementation.
54.        There is some risk that evolution of the system may be arrested
before the full array of longer-term benefits has been attained. The
system's long-term development depends upon continued imnprovement in BPM-s
management capacity. It also requires a consistent and favorable policy
framework, especially on such issues as interest rate controls, the
overlapping responsibility of different public sector agencies, and the use
of subsidies and grants for welfare and development purposes. The more
effective BPM can become in the immediate future, the more likely it is that
its evolution will be unchecked, with the Government providing the necessary
resources and policy framework.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
55.        The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and BPM, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
56.        Special conditions of this loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
57.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
58.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
August 7, 1980



-19                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             329.8
AGRICULTURAL       65.1                                  MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBREAN
GNP PER CAPITA (119)                   240.0        450.0    1090.0                 894. 8                     1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       242.0        469.0      716.0                 842.4                    1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        8.0         10.7       13.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.2           27.0       28.8                   39.1                      63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          20.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         24.0         32.0       40.0                 376.1                      28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    152.0          185.0      204.0                2350.4                      81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           45.1         45.4       42.2                  40.4                      41.4
15-64 YRS.                           51.3         51.5       54.4                  56.2                      54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.6          3.1        3.4                   3.4                       3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.5          2.9        2.7                   2.4                       2.7
URBAN                                5.5          3.6        3.6                   4.1                       4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       39.1         32.6       29.0                  28.7                      34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        9.1          6.8        6.0                    7.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..           ..        1.9                    1.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         56.0       80.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            7.0       36.0                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            85.0         99.0      107.0                 116.9                     106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    105.0        113.0      117.0                 108.9                     107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            48.0         51.0       57.0                  60.3                      65.6
OF WHICh ANIMAL AND PULSE         16.0         18.0       22.0                  18.8                      33.7
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        9.0          5.0        3.0                   5.3                       8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0           64.0       67.0                  63.0                      63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             75.0/c       41.0       31.0                  52.8                      66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       62.0                  42.4                      65.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..       93.0                  62.1                      80.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..       49.0                  29.7                      44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         59.0       60.0                  52.8                      62.3
URBAN                                           100.0      100.0                  71.1                      79.4
RURAL                                 ..         43.0       43.0                  42.4                      29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            6937.0       4260.0    4347.0                 4120.1                    1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1776.0/d    1246.0    1079.0                  2213.6                    1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              265.0/e      285.0      306.0                 819.4                     480.3
URBAN                                 ..         86.0
RURAL                                 ..       1900.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..       17.2                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.9          5.6j.
URBAN                                5.9          5.9/e
RURAL                                 ..          5.5/e
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                3.0          2.6j.
URBAN                                2.3          2.3/e
RURAL                                 ..          2.8/e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..         43.0/e
URBAN                               82.9         84. 7Te
RURAL                                 ..         30.0/e



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                            Page 2 of5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEP,AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATZI
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  96.0         91.0       93.0                   96.6                      99.7
MALE                 108.C         95.0       94.0                   99.2                     101.0
FINALE                83.0         87.0       91.0                   97.7                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  19.0         35.0       43.0                   55.5                      34.4
MALE                  25.0         40.0       47.0                   60.7                      33.5
FEMALE                13.0         29.0       38.0                   49.9                      34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   5.0            3.2        2.9                    13.7                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             28.0         31.0       32.0                   34.6                      30.5
SECONDARY                           38.0         26.0       27.0                   28.5                      14.5
ADLLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         53.0         55.0         ..                    85.8                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                    9.0                      43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                  118.9                     245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.2         18.0       45.0                   39.4                      84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   61.0         65.0       87.0                      *-                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 16.0            9.4        9.1                    4.9.
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2745.3       3622.2    4789.0
FEhALE (PERCENT)                    27.0         31.4       33.0                   36.8                      22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               63.1         56.0       50.0                   51.9                      37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.7         14.0       16.0                   21.9                      23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 34.2         33.8       33.9                    39.1                     31.5
MALE                                  48.8         45.7       45.9                    48.5                     48.9
FEMALE                                18.9         21.5       21.5                    29.6                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4         1.5        1.3                     1.1    -                 1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HilGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         27.0
RIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           56.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          3.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         10.6         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      279.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      252.0                  192.1                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PLR CAPITA)
URBAN                                 *-           *-      313.0                      *-                    474.0
RURAL                                 *            *       283.0                  182.5                     332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       16.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..       46.0                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
awong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betveen 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1957;  /d 1962;  /e West Malaysia.
April, 1980



- 21 -                                                          Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL TNDICATORS
Notes: Although the data are dream from source- generally judged the mont authrlitative end reliabtl, ir should tlo be -oted that they may not be inter-
attonaliy tomparable because of the latk af  -.audardi-ed detilition-  atd to.nept- used by different Iountrs Ocitn ctlecting the data.  The data are, mne-
rhelesa  useful er decrhibe orders af  agritade. inditte trends, and thartter-ie-  ertain rajor differers beetwee- countriet-
The refeleneee geoups ate (1) the name toaunty groap at the tbj et s.ouatey and (2) a country groupe ith somewhat hdigl-e arerage iOctan than tbe coantry geotp
of the nubjeot touney (ecept toe "CapStat Sarplus 011 faporterm" group where "Middle 1tc-e  NSoth Afirtt  and Middle E-t" is chosen betane of atrongar
necio-aultaral afftnittes)  I. the  oftentae group date the  --eragel one population neI6hted etloItetit  nears tar eath idl Iotor and shone rely thb          t
least halt of the treoteles Or a group hoe  data  for tIhe  Arditan.  Siate the coveragec o  countries among the lndtnetor  depends rr the  bantlahlliny of
data and ih not untiforp, tuotlo  mutt be exerciled it areltiasg nerages of one i.d.teor to another.  Tsenaveragen are-   OrI useful ti  o-pantg  he -valu
af o-e irdi-tor at a tite aon. g the tounety and reerente gretus.
LAND AhtA (thoutand uq.kA.)                                                                  iiatl.r) hyyrrruo-r'ofoAanAor rolodl ty csb-ee at practititgphy-
etel - Total  -f-            lzreua omprtmg lande  -ea-adcat-d -atert.                                 iircd    omurrd-luttol atohc- eesltolevel
Ageitaltaoal - taciLma. of agritulteral area used tempsoartly or permanently            Po.elatiot err Nu.u      g e    - Poyplatiho  divided by rutbe- o  practtcfna
fee  -ope, pastures, market and lkithec gardens as to lie fallov; 1977 data.            mle and ferlt grad.ute nurses, prctictal oun.es, and  -asit-at ornase.
FPelto   rrfaptlte      otl  rhm     rural -Popalantniroot
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP pen capiro estlAruo         at  urren t    ke  peies, a. - .    . ur-b, and tu I divdBedd by their enepettic  number of hospitl hede
oulated by sane I.cnereior method taskorld Sack Atlas (1976-78 bheis); 1960,              evailable iA  public and private general and apeoislieed hospital and re-
1970, and 1978 data.                                                                      hebili.tain centers.  Hopitclu are es.tablishments peomnlently stnffed
bh an le-et one phyinhe. Etstbljihmente proeiding prencipally oustodial
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PEi CAPITA - Annual oosomptlion of -ose ieriall eeergy (anal             care Alre en  included.  Prnl hospitalg, heIeeI inelude health and medical
and lignite, petroleum, ntatral gas and hydra-, euciear a-d geothermal elea-              teeters no  permanently staffed  by a phplietle  (but by a medionl a       _aistsct,
tritity) in hlogoama ad coal equicalent per caOitt  19ff, 1970, ord 1978                  nurse, mdvife, etc.) ehilh qffer ih-peeihee  aet  -   datioe and prolide a
data,                                                                                     limited ra-ge of medial facilities.   Pr .antistical purposes. uban hspi-
tale itnlude WNO, printipal general and speahait1ed honpirltl, end earul
POPULATION AND VITA7 STATISTICS                                                             hosyittle locel or Forel hospitals and mediraS and materity teeters.
total Populatton, f           )td-Oeor lmllltoesj  - As of July L; 1960, 1970, and 1978  udei.s..an     Orspital Bed - ttal nuathee of adnlsnirre to or di.sh.agen
dan.                                                                                    tone  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
Urban P-pulatioc (perenet of -onal) - RAtie of uobhn no notai population;
different defintiomnsf orban areas map effe-t reep-rability of data                 HOUSING
among countlies; 196D, 1970, and 1978 dart                                            neerage Sine of foaehold (persona per householdj - renal, urhun, sad tonal-
polanioato  Projentins                                                                   A hAaseheld no Isince of a gracp of individuals the share Ilitog quarters
Populacion  in year 2000 - Canten population pr Ijhettiona are heIed on 1980            end theit mt meie.  A bhardee as ildger may o- my net be included in
tntal population bp age sad see and  theta carnality              fnod fertlitiyratea  the household ftr atatisetil purpo-es.
Projentton parameters for enstal dry rates comprise at three levels aesno-          Average nuther of parsons pee roam-rental, unbar, and rural - Average tam-
ing life expectanty at birth increasigng  ithtoiuctry'c  per capita heroine           her of peertonr per near.. 1n all other, and ernraloupied aconvntionl
lecel, and female life eope-tAy staYbilining at 77,i years.  The pare-                derlins, Fenpraticely.  Dvellings enclude nec-permanent serutuoes end
meters for feoctilty rote alan lace three levels aesumini detAins in                  unoccupied parta
fertility anordi eg ro ironer loon  end pant fanil  planning perfor-anre           Aortas no  eeiitY  peneet en d-etlinc             t      uta h    ad aa  -
fhotachcunty in then assigned ace of nhece nine aeco ninaue of mortality             Th 'naentInal tvelilcI etvi   elactntity in inning quArters en perteriege
and fertility tsends fo-           n jttl  pee.                                       of toa,l unba., and  rural dwelling re-specvely.
Stationary population-In a staionay population there is n grovth tine
she birtA rate in aqual to the death rate, nd alto the age structure re-    EDiCATION
mains ronant.  This is aohieved only after fertility tsdellde to                   Ad a       et
thA  replacement level of unit ret reproduction rate, vher rorh generation            Primary enhoel - totLL, male and female - inane total, enir end fenle
of   otenseplates itneli iertly.  The stAtiooury populntion slae woa                    ecrelerent of all eges at tre primary level as pertet~ages of renynotluo
estimated on the I anie of the peojeated rhararrerlsuire  ththe popueltioa              prlissy sahool-age populatons,  onramatl  tntludes thildren aged 6-11
in rho yea- 11120, and She rate of deline of fertility rote to replete-                 yen  rsbht wdjunted foe differlet iegethe of primary edartaior; for
inrtipe.                                                                                  nettewthaecreiduaelOe..  ea--etnyne  dil  erec
Year etattenerl  -e1-i-nior is teethed - The year  hettn ati onary population       ainc  nae pupils ass belen or  boehhehe officatl shool ag
sine haa been reached.                                                                Set.edao eahool -  total, male and inme - Campated an above; secondary
Populetion  e.s. ity                                                                         tdute .oY.equ,aenar least four years of appnoved prImary tnatrurt inn,
Pe  sq. k. - Mid-year popultino  per square kilrrmeter (100 heatanet) of                 providet general,rotational, or teacher ceaining instructions foe Fapt    i
total anew.                                                                             usually of 12 ti  17 yearn of age; correapanden-e courses are generolly
Per s. A. naricultural lend - Compared as  b.abe for agricultural lard                    exluded.
only.                                                                                 onaieatcoin   (lentreet of  -enoeder) -l  ..natiIm tetosr
Perplati.n Age Structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yearn), working-ego  (11-             vcicaud    tal, tedantial. oretheF pragradha thich operAte  adepen-
64 yearn), and retired (65 years end  -ver) as peraetng.es of nid-year pops-              deencly o  as departments of  -neodary ianstitinons.
leten; 196f, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                      PF-Ia-teathe  rahti  - pel-  ry. end se-ondery  - Total students enroiled ic
Population Groth  etoe (penreet) - nosel - A-n.a.  grnth rates of total mid-                pnimany and secondary levelt divided by eumbeet of sea-hers in the
yeer pspulotiecs for 1950-60, 1960-70, end 1970-78                                        a_nespe di .e.      t s
Poauletioa Gronth Once (Pereent) -  urhan- Aher.n  growth rates of urbhn papa-            Adult lterat  ate   e           - Literate adults (able to rend and  rlite)
lotions faa 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                                ,e pen tenge  tf tst1 adnlt population aged 1S years and over
Crude Birth Rate (per thousardi - Annual lice births pee thousand of mid-year                                               
populatioa; 1960, 1970, ard 1978 data.                                              CONSUPTION
Crude Death  ate (per th.a.and) - A.nnuI de-ths pen thoasand of mid-year                Paseengee  Cart (pen thousand peoratinn) - Passenger teen  -omptise matca
population; 1960, 1970, end 1978 data.                                                   rs  seatring leas  than eight ternone; ecnloden ahoOatoe, hearten and
Glese Rprendortion RaIe- Avrage  number of daughter-   eaman mill bear is                  military  -ehirlee.
her norlal reproductive period if ahe experiences  present age-specific ten-          Radio Reoeiveet (per thousand pepulatlol     - All typet otf eeiee- fIr radit
tility,rea;:utually five-year averages snding or 1960, 1970, -ad 1977.                  boadraste to general publir per theatd of populanien; exclndst acli-
Family Plannn  - A- ceptors., Annual (tho.sa.da) - Anneal number of actepto..             tensed ten.iemn  in  aoreins and in peers when reg_itration If radio sew
of birth-tontrol devires under  .auspi-ces at  atirol family p1ot1i  pr.gea= ia wn.  eEfect  date foe retent years may sno  bettssptahrb  since nest
Family Placiog -OUsers (pernens aE maroied namer) - Percantage nf ma rried                rou.tlie  boliahed line... in
wooer of thud-hearing age 710-A-4  prone) the usr birth-ctrol devices to              Tou nriTe                                                for haedrame to
all mnarried vo=ee  an same age groap.                                                  general public per thousand populactio; emelades -clitened iT  receirers
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        ieespopen Ctr     dIlan  ay Open thous.and. pgioit   -  hf TV 9th  . averag fie-.-
loden oF Pond PFodu-tion per Capita (1969-71=100) - Iden of per repitn  annual           tnat 'daily general intereateespapee". defined asEperiodical pub
production of alh lard aumandituon   Produ-Sior excludes need and feed en                        ddc de d pitAsily ti no  .o.ding generel nes           Is antideed
it no calendar year bhsis.  C-.adieuesrcer primary grads (e.g. eagreda                                                              ... onmaoewrek.
intLead of sager) ohith are edible end  rontaien  .utrIents leg. nele and            tC  be  "daily" if it d ppenrs At lea st pe ue traed ona      t  numb
tea are etladed).  Aggregate production of eachcountry is hated an                      tinkers .nLd during the Yper   iotlading e deise   to dries-it alnenas
national average praduero prite edighte; 1961-5, 1970, ad 197I  data.                    d   bile unit.
Pee raPita curply of calnries (perce=t of reoirrrenots  - CoPpuied from
enorfy eqeicaleu  of net food sapplies available in  .ountry yen onpita           LABOR FORCE
per day.  Available spplies aompris- dmostor prnduotfon, imports lesos              Total Labor Porce (thrumendel - tRonomirally entice persons. i=crldicg
exports, and ahangec in  tock.  Neti supplies exlude animal feed, seeds.              armed feren and unamploed hut enxludieg hoanelives, st. de. ts, eta,
qu..titiee used in food proeesslog. and laten  in dlitributino.  Requint-             Definitione in cantons  toentriec tee =t compareble; 1960, 1970 and
marts .e.  .etimased hy FAl based an physiological =eeda fIn  normal acti-            1978 dana.
city and health  _oneid smog eniron=ental tempe-atu-ee  body anights, age           Fe=ale (penernt) - Fenele labor face ae  p-erentage nf total lbher tome.
end aex distoihution of population, end olloning 10 peruent tot enste at                Pulr    dpeoneot-
honsehold level, 1961-65, 1970, end 1977 dan.                                       hisi                   - Lb  form  In farming. fie60 eLpY  hn,tIn   d
Penrcapito supplyrPE pofs penrn           day) - Protein roonter of per caprta          fi g aprts reege oi  onaig     leonsetrnst;i 1960, 1970 aEd 1978 datn.
I'lllllt~   Pll  2f  lltl,(glrao0jg IIIIduatrir--l IrpontecIt) - Labor  ro f le. timing, rotuto,mofrOnt
ene  supply nf food pea day.  Rt supply of ftod it  defined  n above.  Rn-            ab.
qulenmesto for oil countries astablished by ISDA provide for ninindmle tity, 197 0d gend 17           dpaetae  f tet.1 lbcr foc- 9
allooanue of 6f grant oh Otsem  protein per day and 20ieoae of anImal and           Pantinoatrion Ante  yrennt) - total, male, and female - Pertitipatlon an
prlse protein, of vbiah 1       _ .rwon should bh a.lotl proti=n.   These tred-      aetiiityaanearempured at total, sale, nd female laboe forte as
a-de are loner thha  those of 75 grams of total protein  and 23 grams of              pevnsages at tota1, male and femAle popalatio- of a11 a ge         I entpeainely;
Ani=al penteit a- an average tfr the world, p,rop_ed by FAO in the Chird              1960, 197D  and 1975 datn.  These as 110's participatio= rates -eflecti=g
World toad tarve   1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dala a.-see  Atructure of the poputarlon, and log time trend   i fet .eti-
Per -2pita 2omi  supply fron anneal and p-ls, - Protein tupply af food de-              mate  are        team rnnlne-ltnerresd
Cived fron  animals and pulses in grant per dy ; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 daota        iEmi O     endnenc  Atio - Ratio of poputation order 10 and 65 and area
Child  eages i-4) Mrtanlity lute (pen thousand) - A-nual deaths per thousand in           to the total labor force.
age grup 1-4 years, no ahildret in thi  age group; for most developing  eo_n-
trien darn derived fran life tables; 1960, 19171 and 1977 data.                     INCOMt DISTRIBUItON
OIALCH                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Pricate mnoose )hnths to rash nod kind) - fRelcied by ricbest
Oine nopectuety at ninth (rears) - hverage oumban of year- of life remraining             5 penace=, niahest 20 perreot. poorest 20 percent, and paorenst 40 percent
I fe   bJ!, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~o  bouneholds
or bOmt; 1960, 1970 and 1978 data.                                                      ° 197     o  *
Intent ItortoOnty Rten  (Per thousaend) - Anrlual deaths of infantrsounden nore year  ~oPOVETf ThARGT GROUPi
AT age pee thaumord lion birthe                                                       fstimated Ibtolune Pover  Inco=e Level )CS( per onpita) - urban and runel -
ariess t oSe aea  (peent of papalatian) - total  urban  and aural -                       Absolute pocerty lome  reel is that iyo.me level helvo which a eininal
Nuoher at people (teotl , urban, anod rural) wltt reasonahle arreststo tale             nutritionallypadequate diet plus enmeotlel ret-food nnaioirneenet it tot
outer supply (includes treated curfate eaters ornuntreated hat oroenttinaend             Effordahie.
outer oath as ihat from proterted horeholes, aprumgs, end sanitaeyovellsJ at           nstlmated Pelanfon Poverty Incole LeonO  (0S$ per repine) - orb as and anurl -
porerateage  a  their respertire popalotians.  On us urhan area A publtt               Rurel relntive povertv incoee  level in o=e-third of average yen ca pita
fouentai  or standpost looated tanotenhen thA2D  meters from a hrouse cachbe            personaI inomoe of the raoutry.  Urhac level it demaned trostbeanrerl
tonsidered as being wittue reatroeble acess ci that honse.  tnrural areas                1eve1 sirb ad7uetmeet foe tigher yost of lining it urtue areas.
reasonuhle attest nouold iriply that the houtnsevie or neohers at the housenhold      Istlnated Populathon Below  Absolute Poveety Intone Level (perce=t) - urba=
dn cot hace no senod A disproportionete part tf the day in fetching the                  and rueal -Fercent of population (urban and rural) ahe son "absolute poor".
tualty' tostyr needn.
Atcresstortree tay_s oal jzerceon ot noaclaticrs - total -urbans and
rural - Number at 7e07Oe (totai, urban, asc orral 7 served hvnnnrrnta
disopreal us perroos aoec of ttrelrtrespective ta prlatcrnt .Etcrota  Ira-                                             tEcnomiuoad Sooial Into Division
prosln mainclude ice collectaron anrd dcpral, arch craVltchuc  treutorc, tEconomichnalysisand Prcfecttlnono eprtment
oirhmanunoacrocuandrvatce-duter t, oAoer-tborre  systemat srthe use rf                                                              A pril, 1950
pit per cans and olonlar instullatnht                                                                     P



- 22 -                                     ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979:                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(% in constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln      x         1961-70  1970-76  1977  1978  1979
GNP at Market Prices             19,370    100.0           6.4       7.7      7.1   7.0   8.3
Gross Domestic Investment         5,082      26.2          6.7       9.4    19.7   9.5  10.5
Gross National Saving             6,173      31.9           .
Exports of Goods, NFS            11,744      60.6         6.0        7.9     3.9   7.9  10.1
Imports of Goods, NFS             9,774      50.5         2.9       6.9    13.7  13.9  18.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Output               Employment         Output Per Worker
US$ Mln      Z           Mln      Z          US$           x
Agriculture               4,041      25.6          2.0    43.9         2,049       58.5
Industry                  5,017      31.8         0.9    20.0          5,568      159.0
Services                  6,701      42.5          1.6    36.1         4,188      119.6
Total/Average        15,759    100.0          4.5   100.0         3,502       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
M$ Mln                        % of GDP
1979          1979          1971-75         1976/78
Current Receipts                   12,424          28.0           24.0             27.5
Current Expenditures                9,875          22.3           22.5             24.5
Public Authorities Surplus            369           0.8            0.8              1.1
Current Surplus                     2,918           6.6            2.3              4.1
Development Expenditures            5,544          12.5           10.8             12.4
Foreign Borrowing (net)               754           1.7            2.3              1.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES         1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
11oney and Quasi-Money          4,131  4,666  5,770  7,574  8,729  10,001  12,769  14,861  17,520  21,738
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                          833  1,045  1,186  1,375  1,746   2,148   3,036   3,583   3,379   3,873
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                       2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278   6,084   7,471   8,970  11,627  14-109
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money -id Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                    33.3   36.0   40.4   40.0   37.8    45.1    46.4    46.4    48.0    49.0
Consumer Price Index
(1967 = 100)                 101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8   144.0   147.7   154.8   162.4   168.3
Annual Percentage
Changes in:
Consumer Price Index              1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4         4.5      2.6      4.8      4.9      3.6
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                        -8.4   25.5   13.5   15.9   27.0    14.6    41.3    18.0    -5.7            13.7
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                         21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1    15.3    22.8    20.1    29.6    21.3
. not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.



- 23 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-79)
1977   1978   1979
(US$ million)                                              %
Exports f.o.b.                  6,038  7,295  10,857   Rubber                      1,561    21.2
Imports f.o.b.                  4,467  5,749   7,860   Timber                      1,235    16.8
Nonfactor Services (net)         -505   -651  -1,027   Petroleum                   1,058    14.4
Resource Gap (deficit)          1,066    895   1,970   Tin -                         820    11.1
Factor Services (net)            -517   -606    -880   Palm Oil                      800    10.9
Net Transfers                     -32    -42      -53   All Other Commodities    1,880    25.6
Balance on Current Account        517    247   1,037
Total                7,360   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         477    542      594
Net MLT Borrowing /a
Disbursements                   644  1,044      978   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Amortization                    318    558      245
Subtotal                       326    486       733                                    US$ Mln
Other Items n.e.i.               -644   -464  -1,121   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   2,671
Increase in Reserves (-)        -199   -269  -1,244   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed   2,671
International Reserves         2,973  3,243   4,487
(end year)
DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                        578    634
Exports                         854  1,010            Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed        4.0
Of which:  Crude Petro-                             Nonguaranteed Private Debt
leum           770    969             Total Outstanding & Disbursed        4.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING (MAY 31, 1980)
(US$ million)
Average rate during period:
IBRD
M$ per US$    US$ per M$
Outstanding & Disbursed            465.2
1971              3.05          0.33                Undisbursed                        514.1
1972              2.82          0.35                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    979.3
1973              2.44          0.41
1974              2.41          0.41
1975              2.40          0.42
1976              2.54          0.39
1977              2.46          0.41
1978              2.32          0.43
1979              2.19          0.46
/a Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and are not
comparable with balance of payments estimates.
not available



- 24 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF MAY 31, 1980)
Amount in
US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year   Borrower           Purpose                       Bank   Undisbursed
Nineteen loans fully disbursed                                   361.00
810     1972   Malaysia           Education (II)                15.50       1.43
880     1973   Malaysia           Population                     5.00       1.61
885      1973   Malaysia          Land Settlement               25.00       0.73
908     1973   Malaysia          Water Supply (II)              13.50       0.17
931     1973   Malaysia           Highway (II)                  19.50       3.92
967     1974   Malaysia          Land Settlement                40.00       8.62
973     1974   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    45.00         31.34
974     1974   Malaysia          Education (III)                19.00      10.09
1044     1974   Malaysia           Land Settlement               36.00      20.54
1115     1975   Malaysia          Agricultural Research
and Extension               20.50      13.84
1178     1975   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VII)                   35.00       8.50
1213     1976   Malaysia           Sewerage                      21.50      15.89
1214     1976   Malaysia           Urban Transport (II)          26.00      14.28
1294     1976   Malaysia           Rural Development             21.00      18.51
1329     1976   Malaysia           Education (IV)                35.00      31.30
1376     1977   Malaysia           Highway (III)                 35.00      21.09
1443      1977   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VIII)                  22.00       17.80
1444      1977   Malaysia          Irrigation                    39.00      34.64
1493     1978   Malaysia           National Extension            19.00      18.28
1522      1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.00        24.62
1580      1978   Sabah Ports
Authority      Ports (II)                     13.00      12.61
1590     1978   Malaysia          Land Settlement                28.00      27.39
1608     1978   Malaysia           Population (II)               17.00      16.90
1618     1978   Malaysia           Coconut Smallholders Dev.   19.50        18.11
1632     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.50         24.62
1657      1979   Malaysia          Education (V)                 38.00      37.74
1717     1979   Malaysia           Irrigation                    31.00      29.48
1808     1980   National
Electricity
Board          Power IX /a                    50.00      50.00
Total loans (less cancellations)                    1,102.50
of which has been repaid                            123.16
Total now outstanding                                 979.34
Amount sold                                44.57
of which has been repaid                 24.94       19.63
Total loans now held by Bank                          959.71
Total undisbursed                                                514.05
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX TI
- 25 -                       Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MAY 31, 1980)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year                                         business        Loan    Equity    Total
1964  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                    financing        -     1.31       1.31
1966  Tasek Cement Ltd.                      Cement          1.28      0.28      1.56
1968  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                  Steel           2.45      1.01      3.46
1969  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                  Steel              -      0.23      0.23
1970  India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.          Textiles        1.25      0.25       1.50
1974  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                    financing        -     0.63       0.63
Total gross commitment                                 4.98     3.71       8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs                    4.09      3.46      7.55
Total commitments now held by IFC                      0.89     0.25       1.14
Total undisbursed                                               ____



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
MALAYSIA
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
GENERAL AGRICULTURE
Loan No. 885 Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project; US$25.0 Million
Loan of March 30, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of the third and last stage of the Jengka
Triangle program (under which overall 62,000 acres of palm oil and 35,000
acres of rubber will be established and 10,000 families will be settled).
Under the project, about 22,600 acres of oil palm and 16,600 acres
of rubber have been planted. Planting and maintenance standards are satisfac-
tory. A severe drought in 1976 and 1977 caused heavy losses in rubber planted
in schemes 21 and 22. A major program to supply replacements was completed in
April 1979. Oil palm on schemes 15, 17, 18, 19 and 23 has been brought into
production. Good progress has been made in village development but settler
intake is generally 2-2.5 years behind appraisal estimates because of earlier
delays in construction of access roads.  So far, about 3,400 houses have been
completed and about 2,700 settlers moved into schemes 15-20, and 23.  Settler
intake in schemes 21-23 is expected to be completed in 1981. Water supplies
are now satisfactory on all schemes but delays are still being experienced in
school and clinic construction. Oil palm mill construction in scheme 18 has
been completed and the plant is operative.
Loan No. 967 Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The Project consists of clearing of 81,000 acres of land and
planting about 65,000 acres of oil palms, construction of 5 palm oil mills,
8 villages, roads and provision for power and water and settlement of
6,500 families.
Clearing of 80,900 acres has been completed and 69,800 acres oil
palm have been planted. Planting and maintenance standards are satisfactory.
All schemes except one are now in production and production has recovered
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                    ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
from initially disapr -nting levels. A major resupplying program to replace
losses to game is under way and boundary trenches have been completed. Due
to delays in infrastructure development, village development is one to three
years behind schedule. About 3,400 settler houses have been constructed and
3,100 families settled. Rising tim.ber prices and labor shortages are also
creating difficulties for contractors. Regular coordination committee
meetings have improved interagency relationships, but shortfalls in
construction of water supply and access roads will cause some further
slippage. The third and the fourth oil mills were completed in June 1979.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of clearing about 63,000 acres of land and
planting and maintenance of about 55,000 acres of oil palms; construction
of three palm oil mills and establishment of two urban settlements for about
5,500 families.
About 60,100 acres have been planted and 49,800 acres planted to
oil palm. On four schemes, 25% of palms were damaged by game. Perimeter
trenches are being dug and seedlings resupplied. So far, 1,900 houses have
been completed and 1,800 settlers moved in in schemes 1, 2, 4, and 5. The
Bahau Keratong highway has been opened for all traffic and the project area
is no longer isolated.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$20.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to expand and strengthen research programs
and establish an Extension Liaison Unit in the Department of Agric-'ulture.
The project was restructured in July/August 1979 and the loan agree-
ment was substantially amended to cover all agricultural research programs of
the institute, substantially reduce the manyears of consultants, reduce the
loan from $28.5 million to $20.5 million, and extend the closing date to June
1984.
Loan No. 1493  National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This project is designed to strengthen agriculture extension and
related services on a national basis in Malaysia. An uncertain federal/state
relationship continues to constrain implementation. Specifically, the main
constraints are (a) the federal supernumerary status of project posts, and
(b) the inability of the Public Works Department to prepare timely civil works



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
designs. However, the interest and enthusiasm in the T&V extension methodol-
ogy has spread among the staff and the farmers, and pilot programs have been
implemented in all Peninsular States. Sabah and Sarawak have not yet accepted
federal control of staff; physical implementation is proceeding satisfactorily
in Sarawak.
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of land clearing, planting and maintenance
of 62,000 acres of rubber and up to 10,000 acres of cocoa and 500 acres of
experimental plantings in Pahang and Negri Sembilan, recruitment and
settlement of 6,200 rubber smallholders and 1,500 hired labor and construc-
tion of necessary housing and infrastructure facilities.
Clearing and planting operations are seriously delayed in Pahang
State due to delayed forest clearances by the State. FELDA is preparing
proposals to include the expansion of the project area in Negri Sembilan in
the project to offset slow development in Pahang. Planting and maintenance
standards are satisfactory. The cocoa planting program has been tentatively
postponed till 1983 pending further soil and climatological studies. A
start has been made (100 acres) with the crop diversification experimental
program.  Some fruit and annual food crops will be grown on areas 5 to 50
acres each.
Loan No. 1618  Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 23, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 44,200 acres of
traditional MT Coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, fruits, etc;
replanting of about 17,000 acres with hybrid coconuts and associated cash
crop gardens in the initial years; the provision for the importation of about
6,400 crossbred dairy animals for the development of about 3,340 integrated
dairy and beef operations; and the strengthening of support services for crop
and dairy production.
Physical implementation has exceeded the appraisal targets for
year 1 of the project. About 2,000 farm families have received assistance
to rehabilitate 3,600 acres of coconut and 1,500 acres were scheduled for
replanting in 1979. Contracts have already been let for purchase of 6,600
cross-bred heifers and delivery will commence in the last quarter of 1980.
The only problem encountered has been general concern about supernumerary
posts; however, prospects for continued satisfactory achievements under the
project are very good.



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 973 Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes main and feeder drains, farm roads, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage and access in an area of about
135,000 ha in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an integrated agri-
cultural development program to introduce intercropping and other changes in
cropping patterns, construction of farmers development centers, and improve-
ments in research, extension, and crop processing. Civil works got off to a
slow start and are about 3-1/2 years behind schedule, but progress is now
accelerating. Staffing and land acquisition problems have been largely
overcome. Work is progressing on drainage and farm road contracts. Construc-
tion of the Macap Dam began in October 1979. Progress on the agricultural
side is generally satisfactory, particularly in developing an integrated
agricultural service system to coordinate the efforts of the crop-based
development agencies with the extension activities in the project area. Work
is also proceeding on the preparation of a second phase project. The Govern-
ment has been contacted regarding the extension of the Closing Date to
June 30, 1983.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project includes drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha
and intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km of
rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes service 1,300 ha; construction,
rehabilitation and equipment of 25 Farmers Development Centers; and establish-
ment of an agricultural extension service. Implementation of civil works has
fallen about 2-1/2 years behind schedule, due mainly to staffing shortages,
particularly at DID headquarters for design and tendering.  Construction of
flood bunds has been slow due to delays in land acquisition and the need for
studies to define the final alignments.  Shortages of agricultural extension
technicians has delayed the implementation of the T&V extension system;
progress in the first two districts is good, but introduction of the progress
in the two other districts is behind schedule due to staff shortages. A good
start has been made in the pilot credit programs.
Loan No. 1444  National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million
Loan of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project includes construction of small irrigation systems with
a total irrigable area of about 54,000 ha distributed throughout Malaysia;
technical assistance and training for DID; procurement of equipment and a
feasibility study for the Rompin-Endau irrigation project. Ccnstruction is
proceeding satisfactorily and most schemes should be completed on schedule
by the end of 1982, although some work may extend into mid-1983. Of the
195 proposed schemes to be implemented under the project, 53 schemes have



ANNEX II
- 30 -                        Page 7 of 14 pages
been rejected/deleted by the Preparation and Evaluation Team and 18 new
schemes have been added; the revised number of schemes proposed under the
project is now 160. Of these, 96 have been approved by the Bank for inclu-
sion in the project following appraisal by the Preparation and Evaluation
Team. Construction of nine schemes has been completed and 67 schemes are
under construction as of December 31, 1979. The final draft of the feasi-
bility report for the Rompin-Endau Project has been submitted by the
Consultants to the Government in December 1979.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of irrigation network for
20,000 ha of padi; drainage work for 77,000 ha of tree crops and facilities,
equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricultural
services for the Northwest Selangor region's smallholders. The project
started out about one year behind schedule due primarily to staff shortages,
but significant progress has not been made on staffing, design and tendering
of structural tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of drainage works.
Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory. A draft agricultural
services operation manual has been prepared. Total project cost is now esti-
mated at about US$104 million, or about 70% above appraisal estimate, due
mainly to cost increases in irrigation and drainage works. The project is
expected to be completed by end 1983, about one year behind appraisal
schedule.
Loan No. 1632 Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensifed agricultural supporting services
in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi land in
the state of Perak. Despite Government action before loan signing to create
additional positions for DID engineers and district land offices, these
positions are only now being filled, with the result that the project is
starting off more slowly than planned.
Loan No. 1717 Muda II Irrigation Project; US$31.0 Million Loan of
July 30, 1979; Effective Date: September 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is the first phase of tertiary irrigation and drainage
development in the Muda irrigation area, whose storage facilities and main
canal system were constructed under a previous Bank-financed project
(Loan 434-MA) during the period 1965-70.  The project will provide tertiary
irrigation canals, drainage channels, and farm roads to serve nearly 25,000 ha



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
of padi land, representing about 25% of the total command area. It also
includes establishment of a highly organized extension system, improvement of
operation and maintenance facilities, drainage and coastal protection works
serving the entire 98,000 ha area, and two studies, one dealing with the
development of groundwater resources and the other to prepare a phased
integrated rural development project. Despite staff shortages, mostly at the
technician level, and the recent cost increases and difficulties in the
delivery of construction and materials, progress in civil works is
satisfactory. Good progress is being achieved on most aspects of the
agricultural development program.
EDUCATION
Loan No. 810   Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project provides for: (a) educational television in Peninsular
Malaysia, (b) a national curriculum development center, (c) a science
university and (d) technical and vocational secondary schools. Construction
and procurement is practically completed, about three years behind schedule.
Delays in appointing consultant architects, completion of design, delays in
obtaining approvals of designs and making contract awards, slow performance by
contractors and understaffing of the implementation unit were the main causes
of delays. The implementation staff has been strengthened and disbursements
are nearing completion. Closing date extensions beyond the current December
31, 1980 date are not envisaged.
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The Project includes eight general secondary schools, four teacher
training colleges and one polytechnic institute in Peninsular Malaysia and
education mass media in Sabah/Sarawak. Project implementation is about
three years behind schedule because of site selection problems, slow design
and tendering, poor performance by contractors and shortages of building
materials and labor. The implementation staff has been expanded and
strengthened and construction is in progress at all project locations.
Disbursements are slow but improving. A two-year extension of the Closing
Date is expected to be required.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides for: (a) improved planning and construction of
approximately 850 primary schools in seven most disadvantaged states of



ANNEX II
- 32 -                         Page 9 of 14 pages
Malaysia; (b) establishment of four educational resource centers and one
teacher training college; (c) expansion of two and establishment of three
industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of community education
needs. The pace of primary school construction program (75% of project total)
is satisfactory; over 300 schools have been completed and another 310 are
under construction. Although none of the educational resource centers or
industrial training institutes is more than 10% completed, steps are being
taken to accelerate implementation.
Loan No. 1657 Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effective Date: May 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The project provides for: (a) construction and equipment for 76
lower secondary schools to be located in areas of poor access to education;
(b) establishment of administrative training institutes for headmasters and
other educational officers; (c) a new central campus and three regional
centers to expand the capacity and improve the program of the national public
administration academy; and (d) assistance to long-range planning of occupa-
tional training.  Implementation performance is good and the project is on
schedule.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1178  Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1443  Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Extension of Prai Power Station under the Seventh Power Project is
proceeding satisfactorily, about 75% complete at the end of September 1979.
Unit No. 4 was commissioned in September 1979. Commissioning of Units No. 5
and No. 6 is targeted for the end of February and August 1980, respectively,
as originally scheduled. Progress on the Pasir Gudang Thermal Power Station
under the Eighth Power Project was about 30% complete at the last review,
about 5 months behind schedule due to delays in the delivery of structural
steel columns and boiler parts.
Loan No. 1808 Ninth Power Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of May 21, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1985
The loan has not been made effective yet. The project estimated to
cost $232.9 million will be cofinanced by Commonwealth Development Corporation
(UK), Canadian International Development Agency, Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (Japan) and commercial banks. It includes construction of two dams and
hydroelectric power stations (192 MW) and about 174 km of transmission lines
and associated substations.



AiNNEX II
- 33 -                       Page 10 of 14 pages
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Loan No. 908 Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Million
Loan of June 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of the expansion of water supply facilities to
meet increasing demand in Kuala Lumpur and the Klang Valley area. The first
part of the project, comprising ordinary water works, was completed in 1976,
practically on schedule and within the cost estimates and is operational.
The construction of the Langat Dam, the last and major work of the project,
after delays due to land acquisition, is now substantially completed and
impoundment of the reservoir has started. Overall project completion was
about two years behind the appraisal schedule. Staffing problems persist
within the Selangor State Water Department, which is responsible for the
project. There are deficiencies in the accounting, billing and collection,
and reporting system. Although the project is virtually completed, the Loan
is not yet fully drawn down. Requests have been made to WD and the Treasury
to expedite applications for disbursement of the US$86,000 remaining as of
June 30, 1980. No extension of the Closing Date is envisaged; completion of
the disbursement is expected soon.
Loan 1213-MA Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date:  August 25, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year master plan
for sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewage collection (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers) and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000
in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage
Department within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall with its own accounting system
and finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training;
and the preparation of sewerage and pollution control system in the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan area. The engineering of the project has been satisfac-
torily completed. Construction of the three major contracts is progressing.
Land acquisition and resettlement of present occupants have created serious
problems but these are now being solved. Sewerage surcharges on water bills
were instituted after delays. Compliance with covenants regarding longterm
sewerage and urban planning in Selangor State is lagging. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982, about two years behind the original
schedule, at about the estimated cost.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project includes: (a) construction and improvement of two
sections of Federal Route I totalling about 90 miles in length; and (b)
consultant services for (i) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
about 22 miles of Route I and connecting roads in the vicinity of Kuala
Lumpur, (ii) detailed engineering of about 200 miles of roads in West and East
Malaysia, (iii) town development studies for Kuantan and for the region of
North-East Negri Sembilan and an urban road improvement study for Kuala
Lumpur, and (iv) supervision of (a) above.
The project, several months after its original completion date, is
about 92% complete. The new Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Expressway was open to
traffic for about 80% of its length by the end of 1977, and except for a
one-mile section at the northern end, the balance of the Expressway and its
access ramps were opened to traffic by the beginning of June 1979.  The
northern extremity, while completed, will be open to traffic only after the
completion of the interchange and access ramps which form part of the Kuala
Lumpur Traffic Dispersal Scheme (Loan No. 1214).  The Expressway is operating
fairly well under traffic. However, traffic hazards are being created by
unauthorized use of road and shoulders for roadside stands, cattle driving and
general lack of driver discipline by road users. Government is slowly taking
action. The improvement work for the previously existing Kuala Lumpur-
Seremban Road has been completed and the entire length of the road is open to
traffic. There have been, however, long delays in the completion of the
widening and improvement works for the Kuala Lumpur-Batang Kali Road,
construction of which began in November 1976; it is now 64% completed.
Construction costs have escalated sharply due to the delays in project
execution combined with rapid inflation and the total project cost is now
estimated to be approximately US$53 million compared to an appraisal estimate
of US$37 million, an increase of 43%.
Loan No. 1376   Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction and improvement of trunk
roads in Sabah; (b) four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including procu-
rement of equipment, upgrading 290 miles of 13 road sections and consultants
services for supervision of construction and technical assistance to Sabah-s
PWD; (c) development of pilot road maintenance and pavement strengthening
programs for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in Peninsular Malaysia,
Lncludl. pavement strengthening of about 120 mi in Johore; and (d) a
transpor,rrailway study for Peninsular Malaysia and an urban study of Kota
Kinabalu.
The project overall is about 60% completed. Construction work on
the east and west coast roads in Sabah started in September 1977, about five
months behind schedule. Progress is slow at present on all three contracts,
but the situation on one of them is particularly serious. The Government is
now considering terminating his contract and appointing other contractor(s) or
rebidding the contract to complete the work. The Highway Maintenance and Road
Upgrading Program in Sabah is now proceeding satisfactorily with the help of
consultants but the program is more than a year behind schedule. While
satisfactory progress is now being made on the Pavement Strengthening Program



ANNEX II
- 35 -                       Page 12 of 14 pages
in the three pilot states in Peninsular Malaysia, the reorganization and
upgrading of the State Maintenance Sections and of the Maintenance Unit within
the Federal Public Works Department is far behind schedule, primarily due to
staff shortages. The Project also included an urban study of Kota Kinabalu in
Sabah and a transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia. Both of these
studies have been completed. Procurement of the first tranche of maintenance
equipment for the Sabah Highway Maintenance Program has been completed.
Procurement of the second tranche, which represents the balance of the
equipment to be acquired under the project, is underway.
Loan No. 1580   Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978: Effective Date: November 10. 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project aims at: (a) providing Tawau Port with the capacity to
meet forecasted traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth and to
replace worn-out items; and (c) improving the performance of the Sabah Ports
Authority by providing technical assistance and staff training. The contract
for civil works has been awarded and work commenced in December 1979. Traffic
and financial results for 1978 were generally better than forecasted.
Management consultants commenced work in August 1979.
POPULATION
Loan No. 880   First Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The objective of the project is to:  (a) strengthen administration
of the family planning program; (b) extend family planning services to rural
areas; (c) expedite in-service training of medical and paramedical personnel
in family planning; (d) introduce population education in schools; (e)
improve family planning, nutrition and health education programs for the rural
population; (f) broaden research and evaluation through establishment of
population research centers.
The National Family Planning Board (NFPB), by activating the
national and state level committees and subcommittees, has recently gained
greater managerial control over the project implementation. With the creation
of the Project Construction Coordination Unit (PCCU), the Government has
succeeded in halting the slow progress in the civil works. To date, 453
buildings out of a total of 571 have been completed and a further 95 are
under construction. According to the revised schedule, construction of some
facilities will be completed only by mid-1981. Due to this delay, the closing
date has been extended to December 31, 1981. Annual contraceptive acceptors
rose from about 75,000 in 1976 to over 87,000 in 1979; nearly 40% of
these acceptors were reported to have been recruited through the integrated



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
rural health facilities supported through the project. The percentage of
women in childbearing age using contraception increased from 16% in 1970 to
over 39% in 1978. The estimated rate of current users of contraceptives is
about 45% of the women in reproductive age.
Loan No. 1608 Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date;  December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen further the national family
planning program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the
birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding
reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular
Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for the
improvement of maternal and child health.
Due to recent changes in several key management positions in the
Ministry of Health and National Family Planning Board and those agencies
preoccupation with the preparation of the Fourth Malaysia Plan, progress of
project implementation has slowed down.  Procurement of equipment and vehicles
is proceeding on schedule. National program performance, in terms of the
number of new acceptors, reached an all time high of over 87,000 during 1979
compared to about 85,000 in 1978. Project components related to health in
Sarawak and those under the Ministry of Agriculture in the whole of Malaysia
are progressing well. Of the 200 buildings under the project, sites for 150
have been acquired, of which 22 are either under construction or have been
tendered. The Government has taken action to locate and acquire sites for the
remaining 50 buildings. NFPB will review NFSC building plans in terms of its
special functional requirements and seek Bank's comments prior to its final-
ization.  Considerable progress has been made in establishing specialized
services, training, and research under the National Family Planning Center.
URBAN
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency of
the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although primarily
concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approaches to
residential development for low-income families. The main components are:
(a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and construction of new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures
including introduction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-
occupancy vehicles and area road pricing; (c) provision of new serviced plots
for households and businesses, and improvement of infrastructure services for



- 37 -                     ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support traffic manage-
ment and transport planning, to prepare an urban development project for
Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs. Overall
progress of the physical components on the transport side has been quite
satisfactory.  Initial delays, however, will not be overcome and the estimated
project completion date has been moved back 30 months. Execution of the
residential components has been less satisfactory due to administrative and
policy problems which are in the process of being resolved. There is also
concern about delays in implementing the various policy measures included in
the project. Discussions with the Government are currently in progress to
ensure their implementation.



ANNEX III
- 38 -
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              One year
(b)  The agencies which have prepared the        Bank Pertanian Malaysia;
project:                                  Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority; FAO/
Cooperative Program
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:  March 1978
Date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                            September 18, 1978
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  September 7, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:         June 18, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              December 5, 1980
Section II: Special Implementation Actions Required of the Bank
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) 80% of BPM's term loans financed under the project to be for amounts
less than $14,000 (para. 39);
(b) the coordinating staff from RISDA and BPHf to remain in existence for
the life of the project (para. 47);
(c) employment of a corporate planning and financial management consultant
by December 31, 1980 (para. 49);
(d) BPM to provide no further loan or equity to subsidiaries (para. 46);
and
(e) a permanent Treasury review mechanism to oversee BPM's financial
performance would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 50).



