Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILU   CO° 
Report No. 2855-MA
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
July 29, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Ringgit (M$)
M$1.00        = $0.465
$1.00         = M$2.15
M$1,000,000   = $465,116
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 pound (lb)  =  0.453 kg
1 long ton    =  2,240 lb
1 gallon      =  4.546 liters
1 acre        =  0.404 ha
1 mile (mi)   =  1.6 km
ABBREVIATIONS
BPM      - Bank Pertanian Malaysia
BN       -  Bank Negara
FAO/CP   -  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FAMA     - Federal Agriculture Marketing Authority
FC       -  Farmer Cooperative
FELCRA   -  Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA    -  Federal Land Development Authority
FMP      -  Fourth Malaysian Plan (1981/85)
FOA      - Farmers' Organization Authority
LCC      - Local Credit Center
RISDA    - Rubber Industry Smallholder Development Authority
TMP      - Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80)
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Agricultural Sector . . . . . . . . . . ..I. .  .  .  .   .  .    .  I
Government Objectives and Strategies  . . . . . . . . . . .        2
Bank Lending Strategy . .                                          4 . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .  4
2. THE RURAL CREDIT SYSTEM .         ..4
Characteristics and Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
Institutions . . .  .        .....  ........ . . . .   .5
Farmers- Organization Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
Bank Pertanian Malaysia ... .  .  .    .  .  .  .   . .          7
Issues   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     ...  .   .   .   .   ..  .   .   .   .   .   .   .  13
Institutions  . .   ........ . .                .. .  .  .   .  14
Bank Pertanian Malaysia ... .  .  .  .  .  .    ..... .  .   .  15
Strategy and Prospects  ... .  .     .  .  .  .    ......  .  .   .  17
Institutions       ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .   .  17
Bank Pertanian Malaysia .         ...... ....... . .   .18
3. THE PROJECT                ...19
Objctve   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19
Summary..20
Detailed Features   .21
Project Cost                 . . . . . . . .                      23
Financing               ..24
Procurement              ..25
Disbursement  . . . . . ..26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Malaysia in September 1979, consisting of Messrs. K. Sigrist and J. Brown
(Bank), and R. Jessup and V. Raswant (Consultants).
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           26
General .26
RISDA/BPM Cooperation .27
New Credit and Savings Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          28
Lending Terms and Conditions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          28
Accounts and Audit  ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
5.  TECHNICAL ASSLMPTIONS ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
6. MARKETING AND PRICES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           30
7. BENEFITS AND RISKS .31
Benefits .31
Risks .......................... .    32
8.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .33
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
2.1   BPM Lending Operations, 1974 and 1978 .10
2.2   Changes in Number and Size of BRP Loans, 1974-78                      11
2.3   BPM's Assets and Liabilities, 1974 and 1978 .12
3.1   Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          24
3.2   Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          25
5.1   Yields from Subproject Investments  . . . . . . . . . . . .          30
6.1   Price Assumptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          31
ANNEXES
1. Bank Pertanian Malaysia: Financial Performance and
Projections .35
2.  Technical Assistance:  Draft Terms of Reference . . . . . .          65
3.  Estimated Schedule of Expenditure, Claims and
Disbursements .68
4. Farm Model Summary .69
5. Major Commodity Price Assumptions and Derivation  . . . . .           70
6.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .          71



MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has requested a Bank loan to help finance
an expansion of the agricultural loan portfolio of Bank Pertanian Malaysia
(BPM).  BPM is a wholly government-owned bank, established in 1969 with a
mandate to provide financial services to the agricultural sector.  In order
to attack the persistent poverty of the agricultural sector, the Government
is taking various steps to harmonize its subsidy programs and its sources of
institutional credit. As part of this process, the Government wishes BPM to
become the single government source of credit to the sector. The Government
also anticipates that BPM will eventually provide a full range of banking
services suited to all farm households, since private commercial bank
activity in the sector is unlikely to grow.  The proposed project, prepared
by staff of BPM with the assistance of the FA0/CP, is intended to support
BPM in meeting these increased reponsibilities. Project components include:
support for expansion of BPM's regional branch network; support for
strengthening the training.departments of BPM; about seven man-years of
technical assistance to improve the management of BPM; and funds to provide
production credits, as well as about 8,000 medium- and long-term loans to
farmers, fishermen, and rural enterprises. The total project cost is
estimated at $79.4 million, of which $30 million would be provided as a Bank
loan.
Agricultural Sector
1.02      Of Malaysia's total land area of 128,370 sq mi, 50,800 sq mi are in
Peninsular or West Malaysia. Less than 25% of Peninsular Malaysia is culti-
vated; tropical rain forest covers most of the remainder. Temperatures are
uniformly warm to hot, and rainfall is abundant. The population in 1978 was
estimated at 12.9 million, with a growth rate of about 2.7% per annum. About
85% of the population live in Peninsular Malaysia, where the highest
densities are on the west coast and the south, and about 53% of the popula-
tion is Malay, 35% Chinese, and 11% Indian.
1.03      Malaysia is one of the most prosperous countries in Southeast Asia.
It is the world's leading exporter of tin, rubber and palm oil; it is also a
principal exporter of tropical hardwoods and has significant reserves of oil
and natural gas. By exploiting its rich natural resources, the country
achieved a GNP of about $1,090 per capita in 1978. Moreover, the manufactur-
ing sector, although still small in relation to the rest of the economy, has
registered substantial growth in recent years. The rapid growth of this
sector and the increased investment by the public sector have been the main
forces behind the acceleration of the growth rate of GDP from 6% a year during
the 1960s to about 8% in the mid-1970s.



- 2 -
1.04       Notwithstanding this impressive overall performance, some 25% of the
population in 1978 had annual per capita incomes of less than $270, which is
the estimated income necessary to provide accepted minimum levels of food,
shelter, clothing and other basic needs.  Two thirds of those in poverty were
to be found in the agricultural sector, where the incidence of absolute
poverty is about 55%. The agricultural sector has developed in a highly
dualistic way: while estate agriculture is very productive, most households
in the sector are engaged in low income, traditional activities on rice and
rubber smallholdings. Other factors contributing to this poverty include a
high population growth rate of 3% in the 1960s, which is now reflected in the
current high growth rate of the labor force, and a decline in the agricultural
sector s terms of trade prior to 1974, which particularly affected the incomes
of rubber producers.
1.05      Malaysian agriculture has a strong comparative advantage in tropical
tree crops, which explains the dominance of rubber, coconut palm and oil palm.
Altogether, 8 million acres have been brought under cultivation in Peninsular
Malaysia, of which almost 6 million are devoted to rubber and oil palms.
Nearly two thirds of this acreage is in smallholdings.  The only other major
crop is paddy with one million acres. Other crops (each occupying less than
100,000 acres) are pineapple, cocoa, tapioca, sugarcane, tobacco, coffee and
groundnuts. Over 15 years, output has grown strongly; rubber output has
expanded by 100% and oil palm by 300%. Output of rice has expanded by 90% due
to improved irrigation and double cropping, and on average rice imports are
now about 10% of domestic requirements.
1.06      Despite the strong output growth in volume terms, the shift in the
terms of trade has held the growth in real value added down to about 5.5%
p.a.  (This should be compared with the 7.5% p.a. growth rate in total GDP).
The agricultural sector has performed well, but it will naturally decline in
relative importance as industrialization proceeds. For the present it remains
extremely important in the overall economy, providing 29% of GDP and 44% of
employment in 1978, with rubber and oil palm together providing 30% of export
earnings.
Government Objectives and Strategies
1.07      Even though agriculture remains extremely important in the overall
Malaysian economy (and over the past decade its 5.5% average annual growth
rate has been among the highest in the world), its dualistic development has
kept about 55% of Malaysia's rural households (25% of the national population)
living in absolute poverty (para.  1.04).  As a consequence, the two principal
challenges facing the Government in the agricultural sector are: (a) to
maintain high growth in the sector, which will enable agricultural incomes to
grow in line with those of other sectors of the economy and thus minimize the
number of rural families that will slip into poverty; and (b) to improve the
welfare of the rural poor.



- 3 -
1.08      The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are:
(a) to increase incomes in agriculture as rapidly as possible;
(b) to alleviate rural poverty and to redress interregional and
intergroup income disparities;
(c) to maintain a reasonable relationship between agricultural incomes
and incomes earned in other sectors; and
(d) to generate employment opportunities for new entrants to
the rural labor force.
1.09      The Government's efforts to pursue these objectives involve the
following five major strategies:
(a) the absorption of surplus and low productivity labor from agri-
culture into more productive jobs in the industrial and service
sectors. To this end, the Government is pursuing a policy of rapid
economic growth and investment in human resources, particularly
within rural areas;
(b) new land development, in order to generate additional employment
within agriculture at adequate income levels;
(c) an increasing emphasis on raising productivity and incomes
in existing traditional smallholder agriculture;
(d) increasing transfer payments to rural people where moving them
out of agriculture, or increasing their incomes from agriculture,
is not feasible; and
(e) increasing export earnings, especially from tree crops to
finance the industrial and other investments needed to
achieve rapid economic growth.
1.10      Field operations of agricultural programs in existing smallholder
areas are vested in state departments of agriculture and a number of single-
purpose federal agencies, e.g. Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA),
Rubber Industry Smallholder Development Authority (RISDA), Federal Land
Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), Livestock Development
Authority and Fisheries Development Authority. Major emphasis is being
placed upon improving coordination among these entities and increasing their
individual capacity for effective implementation. In addition, the
increased emphasis on raising productivity within areas of traditional
agriculture is leading the Government to place greater reliance on general
purpose agencies such as the Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA) and
service agencies such as BPM.



-4-
Bank Lending Strategy
1.11      Prior to 1975, Bank lending for agriculture was heavily concentrated
in expansion of irrigation and land development as means of expanding output,
raising incomes and creating employment opportunities. To reach a greater
number of rural households, more emphasis has been given since then to
programs designed to raise productivity in existing smallholder areas, such
as those for improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation
of tree crops, extension, research and credit. The Bank is also directing
its current efforts particularly towards strengthening relevant institutions
such as FELCRA, BPM, and in assisting the Government to prepare and
implement projects that focus on specific areas with a high incidence of
poverty such as Kelantan.
2. THE RURAL CREDIT SYSTEM
Characteristics and Performance
2.01      A great deal has still to be learned about the behavior of rural
financial markets in Malaysia.  The picture that can be drawn from present
knowledge tends to be one-sided: it allows some understanding of the
behavior of lenders and factors influencing the supply of credit; but it
provides less insight into the behavior of borrowers, the factors
influencing the demand for credit, or the effect of credit in different
amounts and types upon levels of production and income.
2.02      The activities of commercial banks and finance companies mirror
quite precisely the dualistic pattern of development in the sector. On the
one hand, corporate enterprises active in estate agriculture and logging
receive ready support from banks.  Indeed, estate companies have tradi-
tionally tapped the international financial market, at least before a strong
domestic market existed. Estates have thus been able to renew their capital
and replant on schedule despite wide fluctuations in their earnings. On the
other hand, the commercial banks and finance companies have not lent
actively to smallholders./l
2.03      Malaysia's central bank - Bank Negara (BN) - has made efforts to
reverse this trend. The commercial banks have been presented with specific
guidelines /2 on the rearrangement of their portfolios in favor of small
/1  They have lent indirectly through their financial support of businessmen
and others who onlend to smallholders.
/2  10% of portfolio growth must support nonestate agriculture, particularly
food production, and 17% must be loans in amounts below $70,000, to enter-
prises with a net worth below $140,000.



borrowers and the agricultural sector. Banks not in compliance must make
special deposits with BN, or BPM itself, that earn interest below the rates
payable in the money market. As a further inducement to such lending, the
Government and BN founded a Credit Guarantee Corporation to provide insurance
against the specific risks attached to this type of lending. Despite these
efforts, the risk cost and administrative cost of lending in rural financial
markets are still too high to make participation attractive for
profit-oriented commercial bankers.
2.04      The public sector has actively provided credits to suallholders.
Most agencies, departments and institutions operating in the agricultural
sector have relied on credit as a means of promoting development. Especially
important are BPM which has provided about 40% of the increase in credit to
smallholders in the last five years, and the FOA which has provided about 25%.
Altogether, public sector credit outstanding to smallholders grew by $70
million in the first half of the 1970s, and by about $170 million in the
second half. However, these sums represent only a small share of credit on
offer to smallholders: available data suggest public sector credit has
reached at most 15% of smallholders, and even those taking public sector
credit are probably also taking credit from other sources. At a very rough
estimate, the public sector provides about 10% of all credit for smallholders,
of which about half comes from BPM.
2.05      Most smallholder credit in Malaysia is provided by traditional
informal lenders, such as pawnbrokers, rice millers, rice farmers and
shopkeepers. Surveys show that they charge effective interest rates of 30%
to more than 100% p.a., but despite this they provide strong competition to
institutional sources and limit the expansion of their activities. This
indicates that most smallholders attach less weight to interest cost than to
the transaction costs of taking institutional credit. For snallholders, the
moneylender proves accessible, convenient and dependable.
Institutions
2.06      The Government has used three different organizing principles in
setting up institutions to promote agricultural development: some are
organized around a dominant function (such as the Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute and BPM itself); others are single-purpose
agencies, but undertake a variety of functions in pursuit of that purpose
(such as RISDA and FELDA); finally, some government development efforts are
organized on the basis of specific areas. The most important, both
generally and from the credit point of view, are the Farmers Development
Areas, which collectively fall under the direction of the FOA. This
categorization provides some guide to the credit activities of institutions
in the sector. Apart from BPM, institutions with a specific function are
not responsible for providing credit. Among the area-specific agencies,
only FOA is important as a provider of credit. In contrast, almost all
the single-purpose agencies provide some credit, though this is not a



- 6 -
critical function from the agency's point of view. Individually, the amount
of credit they provide is not significant, but as a group, they account for
about one third of public sector credit to smallholders.
2.07       There is no consistency in the rates, terms and conditions upon
which institutional credit is made available; indeed, it is not easy to esta-
blish the dividing line between credits and the numerous grants and direct
subsidies available to smallholders. At one end of the spectrum, there are
direct capital grants to support diversification of production (e.g. for the
construction of brackish and freshwater fishponds, for the cost of
introducing new annual crops like soybean, and for the start-up costs of
small-livestock rearing in kampungs); and there are 100% subsidies of input
costs to support incomes of poor households (e.g. cost of hulls and gear for
poor fishermen, the cost of all production inputs for all paddy farmers with
less than ten acres). Even at the other end of the spectrum, there is still
a grant or subsidy element in the credit which is offered, so that for
instance, interest on RISDA credits varies between 2% and 8% depending upon
purpose and on Farmers' Cooperative (FC) credits similarly varies between 0%
and 10% but also depends upon region.
Farmers Organization Authority
2.08      The Government has noticeably shifted its emphasis from new land
development as a means of relieving poverty, and now places increased weight
on strategies for raising productivity in areas of traditional smallholder
agriculture. This is reflected in the importance Government places on the FOA
and the system of Farmers' Cooperatives (FCs) it is expected to develop and
manage. It is hoped that FCs will provide a range of functions and services
to smallholders which is sufficient to cope with the diverse pattern of
agricultural activities in long-settled areas. The growth of the FOA since
its founding in 1973 has been rapid.  Its impact on the system of public
sector credit has been considerable, and its growth has affected BPM's
operations in some important respects.
2.09      The FOA divided the country into Farmers' Development Areas, in each
of which there is a single FC.  Although membership is neither compulsory nor
free, the Government hopes that FOA will eventually achieve a nearly universal
coverage of smallholders. FOA was expected to absorb a number of agro
cooperatives and numerous Farmers Associations which already provided exten-
sion, training, credit, marketing facilities, and accepted savings. Arrange-
ments with BPM enabled many of these entities to act as Local Credit Centers
(LCCs) and, on behalf of BPM, to process scheme loans, through which BPM made
production credits available to paddy and tobacco farmers. Thus, as the FOA
expanded BPM increasingly depended on   it for an important part of its
business.
2.10      The FOA has not found it easy to achieve the breadth and depth of
coverage necessary to fulfill its mandate. Almost 190 FCs have started



-7-
operation, but the country is not yet fully covered. Out of 1,800 older
cooperatives and Farmers' Associations, over 400 have been liquidated and 114
merged with FCs. However, 680 retain a separate existence as "unit members"
of FCs, and 530 remain outside the system altogether. W4hile full integration
has been achieved in 58 Farmers Development Areas, and partial integration in
83, integration has not yet succeeded in 40 others. FC membership stands at
180,000, or about 20% of the smallholder population in areas of coverage, and
the remaining independent cooperatives still have 100,000 members.
2.11      The Government provides FOA with funds to onlend to FCs for
smallholder credit programs. Employed prudently, these funds would have
allowed FCs to increase their net worth over time and become commercially
viable. However, in response to their difficulties in becoming established,
FCs used credit as one means of broadening their appeal to potential new
members. FCs have made credit available to members on very soft terms,
sometimes passing on part of the margin of 4.5% which FOA allowed them. The
FCs now face a difficult problem of arrears and will need a continuing
infusion of funds to maintain this pattern of lending.
2.12      The credit activities of FCs have undercut BPM and may also have
adversely affected the relationship between BPM and smallholder borrowers by
lessening the smallholder's sense of obligation to repay credit. Furthermore,
the responsibility of acting as a credit channel for BPM has not been eagerly
welcomed by FCs, since this activity diverts scarce FC staff from such
priority activities as marketing, crop diversification and provision of
inputs. While this might be acceptable for an FC using easy credit to attract
new members, it was less acceptable on behalf of another agency. In addition,
the FCs report that BPM imposes detailed paperwork requirements, is insistent
upon collection of dues, and allows only a 3% spread compared with FOA's 4.5%.
FCs thus have a strong incentive to replace BPM's credits with their own.
Bank Pertanian Malaysia
2.13      BPM was incorporated under the Bank Pertanian Act of 1969, which
defines BPM's objectives as: to promote sound agricultural development; to
coordinate and supervise all public sector credit to agriculture; to provide
loans, advances and credits for agricultural development, production and
marketing; and to mobilize savings in and for the sector. In 1970, BPM
started operations by providing paddy production credits. Its scope has
progressively widened since then to include medium- and long-term lending. In
principle, the Government and BPM management now seek to meet all the
financing needs of smallholders (Annex 1).
2.14      Organization and Staffing.  It is a wholly government-owned cor-
poration under the Ministry of Agriculture. Supervision of its operations is
in the hands of a Board of six Directors who are appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture, with the exception of the Chairman who is appointed
by the King. The Chairman is also the Managing Director and has direct



- 8 -
control of the key staff departments:  Internal Audit, Research and Planning,
Personnel and Training.  Line management is in the hands of a General Manager,
appointed by the Board, who reports to the Chairman/Managing Director. He not
only controls the line responsibilities of Administration, Finance, Credit,
and Banking and Investments, but also two staff functions: Legal and Systems.
2.15       At the end of 1979, total staff numbered 560, of which 340 were at
the head office and 220 at the 17 branches, 4 subbranches and 3 village
units located throughout the whole country. The recruitment of staff with
appropriate experience is difficult, and BPM has developed an Executive
Trainee Program through which it undertakes direct recruitment of university
and college graduates, and prepares them for professional responsibilities
in the bank.  It is also developing in-house training programs to upgrade
the skills of existing staff.
2.16       Overall, BPM is administratively sound.  While its organizational
structure, staffing, and systems show the stresses common to relatively new
and expanding organizations, they are roughly in balance with its require-
ments.
2.17       Noncredit Operations.  BPM-s accounts indicate that it has been
highly successful in mobilizing deposits, which amounted to $14.2 million at
end-1974 (34% of liabilities) and reached $242.5 milllion at end-1978 (85% of
liabilities). However, less than 5% represents the mobilization of rural
savings, while more than 75% are funds deposited with BPM by other public
sector agencies.  The growth in BPM deposits has been almost matched by BPM's
operations in the secondary money market; by end-1978 BPM had $196 million in
Money Market Investments, equivalent to 84% of deposits and 73% of earning
assets. Investing in Money Market Investments allow BPM to match asset
maturities with liabilities and to earn a net margin of 0.1% on funds costing
7%. Deploying deposit funds as agricultural credits would have introduced
unwelcome instability to its financial position and would result in operating
losses (see para. 2.28).
2.18       BPM owns 60% of a merchant bank and 100% of a holding company which
has three wholly owned subsidiaries. By end-1978, these ventures had absorbed
$14 million, or 5%, of BPM's assets, but had not proved financially rewarding.
All of the ventures accumulated large losses, and at government insistence,
strong management is being introduced at the level of the holding company with
instructions to turn the subsidiaries around or close them down.  No further
infusion of equity or loans will be made by BPM. During negotiations assur-
ances to this effect were obtained.  In the financial projections for BPM,
these assets have been carried forward on the assumption that no income will
arise from them.
2.19       A more successful commercial initiative is represented by BPM's
engagement in lease/purchase financing of agricultural and logging equipment.
This is a new and rapidly expanding part of BPM-s business. The standard
contract with equipment suppliers provides for insurance against noncollection



- 9 -
of loans and the effective yield is 11%, giving BPM a net margin, at low risk,
of 3.5%.  By 1988, BPM expects to be able to deploy $41 million in this line
of financing (9% of forecast earning assets for end-1988).
2.20       Credit Operations.  BPM-s agricultural credit operations have grown
at an annual rate of 34%, with loan approvals increasing from $17.4 million
in 1974 to $56.0 million in 1978. Initially, BPM concentrated on providing
short-term production credits to paddy farmers under its scheme loans. The
local administration of these loans is entrusted to LCCs (para. 2.09) which
receive and process applications, ensuring they meet BPM's requirements before
passing them on to the bank. The actual loan contract is, nevertheless,
between BPM and the individual farmer. Despite this, the onus of collections
and dealing with arrears remains principally with the LCCs, which may not
offer fresh credits in the following season until at least 85% of past
disbursements have been collected.
2.21       LCCs are an innovative feature of the agricultural credit system
which has allowed BPM to expand its coverage. However, the situation is not
completely satisfactory. Amost all LCCs have other sources of funds from
which to provide credit, and conflicts of interest seem inescapable. Some
LCCs are private individuals or enterprises (e.g. shopkeepers, tobacco
curers) who reportedly tend to use BPM resources to exploit their position,
for instance by maintaining their own sales monopolies, and transforming
smallholders liabilities to themselves into liabilities to BPM. FCs and
other official LCCs generally have an unsatisfactory performance with regard
to utilization and collections, mainly because of their inexperience with
credit operations, the fact that BPM credits do not seem to support their
other priorities, and the alternative sources of funds for FCs to onlend to
their members.
2.22       Despite these difficulties, the growth in scheme loans for paddy and
tobacco have been significant factors in the overall growth of BPM's lending,
together amounting to 59% of approvals in 1974 and 42% in 1978. The third
dominant category in recent years has been lending for estate development
(Table 2.1). However, the $19 million approved in 1978 is exceptional
(approvals were fairly constant around an average of $6.75 million in the
previous four years) and reflected special circumstances which are unlikely to
be repeated. Paddy scheme lending has been in decline since the drought of
1977 which severely affected collections. In March 1979, the Government
introduced a 100% subsidy of production inputs for paddy farmers cultivating
less than 10 acres. The Government expects to maintain the subsidy for a few
years only, which will meanwhile severely reduce the demand for paddy
production credits.



- 10 -
Table 2.1: BPM LENDING OPERATIONS, 1974 AND 1978
1974                               1978
$'000              %               $'000              %
Paddy                   8,610              50              7,669               17
Tobacco                 1,633               9             11,282               25
Estates                 3,123              18             18,990               41
Others                  4,008              23              7,961               17
Total             17,374             100             45,902             100
2.23      BPM has developed separate loan policies which set out rules and
procedures specific to the financing of paddy, tobacco, pineapple, educa-
tion, agribusiness, estate development, livestock, crop production, land
purchase and development, and contracting. These lending policies reflect a
conservative management emphasis on careful analysis, and central control
and direction. Loans cannot be approved at levels below that of Branch
Manager and the limit on the Branch Manager's approval authority is $2,350.
Inevitably, over 80% of term loan approvals are made at headquarters./l
Loans over $117,000 (M$250,000) must be approved by the whole board. Branch
level staff are almost never involved with loans of this size , except for
some of the routine supervision. The loan policies require a very thorough
appraisal of proposed loans, which is clearly appropriate for the larger loans
but obstructs the promotion of programs of smaller loans. In the case of
small loans, individual scrutiny is limited and more statistical control
measures are necessary. It is important for BPM to develop appropriate
lending criteria, and procedures for monitoring and evaluating its small loan
portfolio, so that branch managers receive corrective feedback on their
performance.
2.24      The average size of loan approved by BPM has decreased from $33,000
in 1974 to $10,500 in 1978 (Table 2.2). About 80% of this improvement in
BPM's performance results from a decrease in the size of loans in categories
that are the same in both years; the improvement would have been even greater
but for the increase in the average size of scheme loans (reflecting increased
numbers of farmers taking advances through LCCs rather than increased loan
amounts to individuals). New lending categories of small loans, typically for
school fees, pineapple planting and some small forestry projects, account for
20% of the improvement. This trend results from BPM management's efforts to
meet its Third Malaysia Plan (TMP) objectives; and its success despite the
organizational limitations (para. 2.23) is one measure of its commitment.
/1 At the same time, Branch Managers report that their recommendations to
headquarters are almost never overturned.



- 11 -
Table 2.2:  CHANGES IN NUMBER AND SIZE OF BPM LOANS, 1974-1978
1974                           1978
Average                         Average
Amount      size        Nlo.     Amount      size
No.    ---- ($'000) ----                ---- ($°000) ----
Scheme loans            265    10,240      38.6/a        302    18,950      62.8/a
Estate development        2     3,120    560.0            21    18,990    904.3
Other term loans        263      4,010      15.2       2,925      7,500      2.6
Subtotal          530    17,370       32.8       3,248    45,440       14.0
"Small loans"             -          -      -          1,094       500       0.5
Total             530    17,370       32.8       4.342    45,940       10.5
/a The average size per LCC, not per farmer.
2.25      Financial Condition and Performance.  At end-December 1978, the
overall level of arrears in BPM's portfolio was 26.4%. Tobacco loans appeared
to be a serious problem, with 93% arrears at year-end, but an age analysis
shows over 90% of these arrears were eliminated within a further 60 days.  The
recovery rate on paddy loans, at 95%, was equally good until 1976, but by
end-1978, 59% of paddy loans were in arrears following the drought in 1977.
Previous performance suggests most paddy farmers would have paid past dues
eventually, but the Government's introduction of input subsidies for paddy
farmers may have undermined the lender-borrower relationship upon which this
collection performance was based. In terms of the amount and percentage in
arrears, the greatest problem is with certain large loans. At end-1978, the
ten largest loans (altogether $27 million) accounted for 44% of the $61
million portfolio. Eight of these loans were in arrears, with an arrearage
rate of 25%. Three sugar loans accounted for 90% of the total $6.6 million of
arrears on the eight loans. In the case of the largest of these loans, in
which the borrower is a joint venture involving the Negri Sembilan government,
a cabinet-level committee is working towards a solution which will allow BPM
to recoup most of its outstanding principal.
2.26      The condition of the agricultural portfolio can be summarized as
at end-1978 as follows : of $56 million in loans, $40 million was up to
date, $6.5 million was at most 10 months in arrears, and $8.4 million had
been in arrears for more than one year.  Up to 30% of paddy loans may have
to be written off ($1.6 million), and as much again may only be partially
recovered.  Losses on sugar loans may be as high as $3.5-5.0 million.  As a
result, bad debts are likely to be in the range of $5.5 to $7.0 million.



- 12 -
2.27      BPM's assets and liabilities are summarized in Table 2.3.
Table 2.3:  BPM'S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, 1974 AND 1978
12/31/74                12/31/78
--------- ($ millions) --------
Assets
Loans (net)                                     19.7                      60.9
Investments                                     12.1                    209.3
Investments (subsidiaries)                       8.7                     14.3
Fixed assets                                     1.0                      11.5
Other                                            1.6                       2.4
Total                                        43.1                    298.4
Liabilities
Deposits                                        14.2                    242.5
Loans from Government                           23.5                      23.5
Agricultural time deposits                       -                        13.1
Total                                        37.7                    279.1
Equity
Paid-up capital                                  4.7                      18.8
Reserves                                         0.7                      0.5
Total                                         5.4                     19.3
Total Liabilities & Equity                   43.1                    298.4
2.28      Money market operations provide BPM with a predictable positive
return on investment of its deposits (para. 2.17).  Prudent financial
management indicates the need for BPM to match maturities between its deposits
and investments, but the main justification for its money market investments
is the need to minimize current losses on its agricultural portfolio (para.
2.30). As discussed below, BPM now requires a spread of 12.5% to break even
on its agricultural loans, and the use of deposit funds would provide a margin
of 2.0% to 4.5%.  Put another way, BPM is now making losses on agricultural
loans and needs to reduce its average cost of borrowing for this purpose.
Use of deposits would raise its average cost of funds for agricultural
lending.
2.29      BPM's average administrative cost of credit operations was 5.5% and
while this may appear high in comparison with the commercial banks, it is
not excessive in comparison with other development banking institutions. It



- 13 -
is unlikely that BPM can reduce this cost significantly in the near future.
Rapid institutional growth means that the costs of recruitment, training and
the establishment of facilities are above their long-run norm, and will tend
to rise in advance of increased business. The lack of financial management
data and BPM's experiments with different credit delivery systems (mobile
units, two-man offices) have increased the cost of doing business. Even when,
in the longer run, BP21 has brought these factors under control, external
influences may keep costs higher than those of a commercial operation. There
may be overriding considerations of national interest to maintain unprofitable
branches and activities, and other public sources of credits and grants will
tend to cut down on incremental business which BPM branches could otherwise
handle profitably at marginal cost.
2.30      An even more important explanation of the high cost of BPM opera-
tions is that it must accept development risks which commercial bankers would
shun. For the purpose of the financial forecasts, it was conservatively
assumed that the average loan recovery rate would be 93% (95% on term
credits, 90% on production credits). The loss rate could be brought
down to 4 - 5% in time, if a means can be found of coping with the financial
aftereffects of drought years. The estimate of bad debts of $5.5-7.0 million
(para. 2.25) over cumulative disbursements of $117 million for 1970-76 shows
a likely loss rate in the range of 4.7-6% for past years.
2.31      BPM realizes an average gross income of 8.7% from its credit
operations. The marginal cost of long-term capital is 4.0% (although most
interest on Government loans has been accrued to date) which provides a gross
margin insufficient to cover administrative costs of 5.5% and allows no
provision for bad debts. The average cost of long-term capital is only
slightly less than 4% and BPI is inevitably accumulating losses on its credit
operations. In its accounts, it has reported a positive net income to date
(down to a negligible surplus of $5,600 in 1978), but this has been determined
on an accrual basis, without adequate provision for unrealized income.
Issues
2.32      A credit and savings system provides an inter-temporal adjustment
mechanism which is a key part in the successful working of any economic
system. The adjustments which have to be made are not, in principle,
different in agriculture than in other sectors, although the backwardness of
rural financial markets and the level of rural development imply a higher
potential for efficiency improvements and welfare gains from efforts to
develop a credit system in that sector. A credit system should be able to
handle the adjustment problems which arise when:
(a) the normal income and expenditure of an enterprise or household
do not coincide perfectly in timing and amount;
(b) incomes or market prices fluctuate significantly;



- 14 -
(c)  desirable investment and realized saving do not equilibrate for
a significant period of time, either for an individual farmer,
or for the sector as a whole.
2.33       When its own reserves are insufficient, the first of these
adjustment processes is absolutely critical to the survival of an enterprise.
In Malaysia, as in all other societies, an informal system has evolved to
cope. However, the other adjustment processes are less straightforward.
They impose more risk on lenders and require the provision of medium term
and long-term funding. Not only are informal lenders unable to provide this
sort of credit, but they would be unwilling even if they had the capacity:
fluctuating incomes and prices, and attractive investment opportunities all
tend to provide money lenders with the chance to use their financial
resources in their own interest rather than lend them out. The Government
takes the view that this situation can only be altered by the evolution of a
formal credit system which will allow the systematic spreading of risk and
the rediscounting of longer-term debt. However, the risk costs and
administrative costs of operating in this sector have successfully deterred
the country-s highly effective banking system from playing any part. As a
result, the development of such a system has become a task for the public
sector.
Institutions
2.34       In order to improve the workings of rural financial markets in the
required direction, the institutional credit system must, at a minimum,
achieve three things. First, it must be able to mobilize rural savings in
support of rural investment, while paying smallholders a satisfactory return
on their money. Second, it must increase the volume of medium and long-term
lending in the sector, both through its own lending, and if possible through
the lending of other intermediaries. Finally, it must be capable of drawing
funds into the sector from other sectors when this proves necessary (as it
almost certainly will from 1990 onwards, as industrialization proceeds, and
liquidity drains from the sector in parallel with the outward movement of
population). These objectives will only be attainable if the institutional
system can compete effectively with informal lenders, which will entail
achieving a level of accessibility, convenience and flexibility similar to
that now offered by the informal system.
2.35      An institutionalized credit system would allow the Government to
intervene directly in the operation of the rural financial market to
support its development objectives. First, the Government could focus credit
upon priority subsectors, activities, and groups (this might require
adjusting the average cost of capital to institutional intermediaries to
offset increases in the average cost of lending brought about by such
direction.)  Second, Government could moderate the effects on the sector of
its monetary policy, which at present has an uncertain impact via the
commercial banking system's links with the informal lenders.



- 15 -
2.36      The present institutional credit system comes nowhere near achieving
these objectives.  For the single-purpose agencies, the provision of credit is
merely one relatively minor means of achieving their institutional goal. They
measure the success of their credit programs only in terms of progress toward
their primary goal, regardless of its effects on the credit system as a whole.
In general, they do not have the skills, the staff, or the incentive to manage
a credit program properly.
2.37      The same has been true of the FOA and its system of FCs, as  the
requirements of an effective long-term credit program have been subordinated
to what was seen as the more urgent institutional need to gather membership.
With over 75% of FC managers under 24 years of age and 70% of all staff
lacking any prior working experience, management of FCs has been a general
problem, which has been compounded by the difficulties of running a credit
program. While, there is no inherent reason why the general-purpose FCs
cannot operate credit programs successfully, there are nevertheless, good
reasons for limiting their responsibility for credit. They are uniquely
responsible for other priority activities which might be sacrificed to the
needs of running a credit program, or vice versa. Also, the Government will
continue to rely upon a comprehensive program of grants and subsidies to
poorer farmers (para. 2.08) and will almost certainly increase the volume of
such assistance during the Fourth Malaysian Plan (FMP). The proportion of
this assistance being channeled through the FCs is likely to increase,
especially when the FOA begins to implement the Komplex Geraktani program./l
The provision of grants and subsidies has an adverse effect on the viability
of associated credit programs, by reducing the scope for credit and under-
mining the borrowers' sense of obligation to repay.  It is therefore advisable
to maintain separate channels for credit, and for grants and subsidies. These
practical considerations limit the scope for developing the credit system on
the basis of the FCs.
Bank Pertanian Malaysia
2.38       Three important and related constraints are curbing BPM's develop-
ment and could hinder, or at worst render impossible, the achievement of the
Government's goals for the agricultural credit system. They are the cost of
money, the availability and use of skilled manpower, and the absence of an
effective village-level delivery system for credit.
2.39       Initially BPM charged paddy farmers 24% p.a. for production
credits. This was not unreasonable in relation to costs: risk cost plus
administration cost average about 12% on BPM's loan portfolio, and are
/1 Under this program, FCs will act either as intermediaries for the agencies
and departments providing services to a particular area, or will provide a
single focus for their operations and will exercise some coordinating
control.



- 16 -
higher for production credits.  However, the 24% rate appeared usurious,
and the Government imposed an upper limit on BPM's lending rate which at
present is 1.5% over prime./l The result of this limitation is that BPM makes
losses on its agricultural portfolio, at any positive cost of money. To
remain viable at such a relending rate, BPM would need government to provide a
blend of equity and loans on terms and conditions that reduce its average cost
of borrowing to a negative nominal rate of 2-3%. As a consequence, the
Government-s willingness to provide such funding determines the expansion of
BPM½s agricultural portfolio. Moreover, BKM is unable to use deposits
effectively, has no incentive to attract savings, and no capacity to draw
liquidity into the agricultural sector.
2.40       Like other growing institutions in Malaysia, BPM faces difficulties
in recruiting the necessary trained manpower. In the booming Malaysian
economy, particularly in the public sector, the demand for professionals
outpaces supply. As a result, BPM is tending to depend for its staff expan-
sion on recruitment of graduates without working experience. For reasons
related to the structure of higher education institutions, these graduates are
generally trained in agriculture rather than finance and banking. As it
expands, BPM must therefore work hard to overcome deficiencies of staff
experience and training. Additionally, BPM-s management systems and controls
are not sophisticated enough to economize on scarce skilled manpower. There
is a lack of data on cost effectiveness and profitability of branches,
schemes, and projects; management must instead rely on the judgement of
relatively junior and inexperienced staff. Partly in response to this
condition, management has imposed very detailed routine reporting requirements
on branches and requires a painstaking appraisal of proposed loans. These
procedures may, however prevent junior staff from developing their initiative
and judgement.
2.41      BPM's credit delivery system is weak for a number of reasons.  The
organizational structure of the bank is the inverse of what is required, with
61% of staff at Headquarters and 39% in the field. Over 80% of term lending
is approved at Headquarters, and production credits are processed by non-BPM
LCCs. A similar bias is seen in the loan policies of the bank, which are
drawn up with commercial operations in mind and make reference, for example,
to the need for forecasts of profit and loss, and balance sheets, and the
right of BPM to appoint directors to the boards of borrowing corporations.
2.42       There is also a problem of perception.  BPM's services to small-
holders lack the dependability and convenience of the moneylenders who are
always ready and willing to entertain a loan request. The smallholder does
not have any guarantee that BPM will bail him out of trouble and as a result
/1 Equal to 9% at end 1979.



- 17 -
he will tend to put a premium on maintaining good relations with the
moneylender rather than BPM. This also partly explains BPM s difficulty in
making full collection of its dues.
2.43      Transaction costs make BPM an expensive source of credit to
smallholders. These additional costs include: working time lost when
applying for credit; the need for clear land title; the social embarrassment
of providing guarantors; uncertainty while awaiting loan approval; and for
some borrowers there is a liquidity cost when credit is advanced against
specific purchases. These additional costs effectively eliminate the apparent
competitive advantage of BPM s controlled lending rate.
Strategy and Prospects
2.44      The Government s overall strategy must be to promote the rapid
growth and development of BPM.  The commercial institutions are firmly locked
into the dualistic pattern of development and can do little to initiate the
process of bringing smallholder agriculture fully into the modern economy.
Other government agencies and public sector institutions supplying credit to
smallholders have never provided a fully fledged credit (and savings) system;
and in fact they cannot do so, because credit activities tend to conflict or
compete with their other work. As a result, the onus of providing an
institutional credit and savings system to smallholders is naturally on BPM.
Institutions
2.45      The Government proposes that the credit programs of such agencies
as RISDA and Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA) should in time be
absorbed by BRP, and that future credit should be managed commercially and be
financially self-sustaining. BRP will assume RISDA's credit program
initially, and others as soon as it develops the capacity to handle them.
2.46      Too many issues of implementation are still unresolved for a
precise timetable to be drawn up, but BPM could take over most other credit
programs by the second half of this decade. BRA would not be expected to
manage these programs as their progenitor agencies had run them, or to put out
the same volumes of credit to the same categories of recipients. When
borrowers are charged the true cost of credit, demand can be expected to fall.
Where a lack of capacity to repay the full cost of credit was part of the
rationale for an agency s soft lending terms, the agency may in future need to
give an explicit subsidy or grant as part of a blend of financing, including
commercial credits from BRP.  This approach would increase the degree of
self-financing by rural households and thereby raise the rural savings rate.
2.47      Even when the bulk of institutional credit. is supplied by BRA, and
BPM is charging at a rate which allows it to cover fully its cost of
operating this will not necessarily lead to a standardization of credit
terms and conditions. Other agencies have a legitimate desire to see that
credit availability is not a constraint upon their development programs, and



- 18 -
they may be expected to work closely with BPM in channeling credit.  Wh ere
this reduces BPM's risk cost or administration cost, the ultimate borrower can
be charged less.
Bank Pertanian Malaysia
2.48      To achieve its primary long-term goal of providing a full range of
credit and savings opportunities to the rural community, BPM proposes to adopt
a strategy with four main, related elements.
(a) Physical expansion. BPM must design and manage its physical
expansion so that staff are not overwhelmed by new or additional
responsibilities; to ensure that business also expands at a rate
that allows administration costs to be held in line; and to reverse
the present top-heavy institutional structure, thereby bringing BPM
into more direct contact with its clientele.
(b) Improved Management, Planning, and Control. Despite BPM's prudent
and conservative management it has still incurred losses. It now
needs to develop a system of financial reporting that allows senior
management to pinpoint the financial implications and profitability
of different branches, activities, projects, and loan categories.
Budgeting has to take account of the revenue implications of
activities, as well as their costs. Management also realizes the
need for some longer term corporate planning to explore the
different ways in which BPM may be able to fulfil its mandate.
(c)  Effective Credit Delivery and Savings Mobilization.  While
BPM competes on price (interest rates) and the moneylenders compete
on service, BPM's potential for expansion will be severely limited.
One key to future progress is the provision of attractive savings
facilities, which is a service that would distinguish BPM from
moneylenders in the eyes of smallholders. Also it could provide
BPM's managers with the information they need to make prompt and
effective loan decisions.
(d) Funds to Portfolio Growth. At present BPM's sources are the
Government (at concessionary rates) and large depositors who earn
with BPM about half a percentage point over the rate offered by
commercial banks./l   BPM also takes small savings, but these are
insignificant in relation to the other sources of funds. Under
present circumstances BPM's portfolio expansion and its rate of
/I Except if the deposits are placed in accordance with BN directives to
promote portfolio expansion in favor of agriculture, when the rate is
about equal to the commercial deposit rate.



- 19 -
growth, are limited by government's willingness to provide funds
(para. 2.39). BPM can only overcome this limitation by earning
enough from its loan portfolio to be able to use both savings, and
funds it raises in the financial markets.
The first two elements of this strategy are preconditions for
eventual success, but alone will not prove sufficient to achieve results.
Successful implementation of the other two elements ensure BPM's success in
achieving Government objectives.
2.49      In Annex 1, two comparable forecasts of BPM performance have been
made.  In the first forecast the present circumstances are presumed to hold:
government would provide funding at levels specified in the TMP, BPM would
channel a proportion of deposits to finance loan portfolio expansion, it would
stop taking deposits placed under BN directives, and it would expand the
financing of lease/purchase deals. Under these assumptions, BPM consistently
shows an operating loss. By 1988, the annual loss rises to $13 million, and
the bank is unable to stay in business. For the second forecast (again up to
1988), assumptions were selected to show the minimim conditions for BPM to
remain financially viable within the present interest rate regime. The key
variations in assumptions are: BRP would ensure that future deposits are not
channeled to support loan portfolio expansion; the Government would inject
sufficient annual subsidy to compensate for the government imposed limits
on BPM' s spread; and the Government would provide sufficient funds to
substitute for deposits lent out for agriculture, as well as to finance the
predicted portfolio expansion.
2.50      The second forecast shows essentially that the control of interest
rates makes BPM wholly dependent upon government funding to maintain its
lending. The forecast shows that a fourfold growth in portfolio between
1978 and 1988 will entail a government subsidy amounting to about $38
million by the latter date.  This resource gap reflects the limit on
interest rates and the nature of BPM's business (see paras. 2.28 and 2.29)
and would be reduced only slightly by improvements in the efficiency with
which BPM undertakes its present operations. Greater flexibility in setting
interest rates would allow BRPI to change its pattern of operations, and in
particular to use mobilized rural savings and commercially priced loanable
funds in financing its expansion. A third forecast along these lines would
be elaborated during project implementation and would draw upon the work
done under the technical assistance component of the project.
3. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      Since informal sources are ready and able to advance funds to
smallholders with the minimum of formalities, the purpose of developing the



- 20 -
public institutional credit system is not primarily to add liquidity to the
sector, but to alter the terms and conditions upon which credit and savings
facilities are available to smallholders, thereby correcting some important
biases and defects of the traditional system. From the smallholder's point
of view, the most fundamental problems are an absence of savings facilities,
an almost complete lack of term credit to finance long-lived capital invest-
ments, and the accumulation of economic and social power in the hands of
moneylenders who meet their short-term cash needs. From the national point
of view, the existing credit system does not provide an effective instrument
of government policy towards the sector: credit is not necessarily available
to those with the highest priority (in terms of subsector, crop, region,
social group); and government monetary policy has an uncertain impact on the
sector, via the links between the commercial banks and the informal lenders.
3.02      As discussed in para. 2.43, the Government sees BPM as the means of
developing the banking system in rural areas, and overcoming the disadvantages
of the present system. The proposed project is the first phase of an exten-
sive evolution which will last about a decade, during which time BPM will grow
at least fourfold. The goals of the project are:
(a)  to increase the breadth of BPM's coverage of the agriculture
sector through an expansion of its branch network, and the
incorporation of credit programs managed by other public
institutions in the sector;
(b)  to increase the depth of BPM's penetration of the sector by
simplifying and streamlining its credit processing procedures
and providing smallholders with a service that is prompt,
accessible, and reliable; and
(c)  to introduce a system of financial and credit controls, so that
BPM can monitor its financial stability, efficiency, needs for
subsidies, and make corporate plans for future development.
Summary
3.03      The project would consist of the following components:
(a)  a considerable expansion of the branch network, presently
estimated at 9 new branches, 18 new suibbranches, 15 mobile units,
and entailing an increase of 375 in BPM's field staffing;
(b)  the development of a training center to accelerate the intake and
preparation for duty of fresh graduates, upgrading of the technical
skills of present staff, and run courses for important clients of
BPM such as fisheries extension officers and leaders of Farmers'
Associations;



- 21 -
(c) the provision of technical assistance in the areas of overall
financial management and planning (2 man-years), the design of
in-house training programs (1 man-year), the evaluation and
monitoring of credit programs (2 man-years), and the development
of new credit programs (2 man-years); and
(d) for three years beginning in 1981, funding BPM's portfolio expansion
so as to promote BPM's development lending in the sector and to
broaden its clientele.
Detailed Features
3.04      Branch Network Expansion.  In each of the three project years it
is estimated that 3 branches, 6 subbranches, and 5 mobile units would be set
up. About half of the expansion would be into rented premises (this
proportion would be even higher but for the need to develop into more rural
areas). Two thirds of the expansion - 5 branches and 14 subbranches would
take place in the four largely rural and relatively backward states of
Pahang, Trengganu, Kedah, and Kelantan. Altogether expansion will occur in
12 of the 14 states of the federation (but not in the Federal Territory of
Kuala Lumpur where the headquarters is located, nor in Malacca which is
adequately represented).  Items to be purchased would include savings
machines, calculators, typewriters, air conditioners, furniture, and
vehicles. The typical branch would be about 4,000 sq ft in size and would
cost an estimated $12 per sq ft (excluding the cost of land) or almost
$50,000. For rented buildings the cost of renovations (including security
systems) would come to about $20,000. During this period, the maximum staff
expansion would total 375, of whom 200 would be professionals with tertiary
level training. Headquarters staff would only grow by 10%, with the rest of
the growth deployed throughout the network of new and existing branches.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.  The overall staff
growth rate is predicated upon a five-year gestation period for new branches,
during which new business and new staff requirements would build up steadily.
3.05      Training.  The proposed expansion of BPM-s branch network and staff
will impose a very considerable burden of training upon the management of BPM,
to cope with the problems of recruiting a relatively inexperienced staff.  It
is projected that 180 out of 200 professional level appointments during
project implementation would be new graduates. They would be hired through
BPM-s Trainee Executive Program in annual tranches of 60, and each group would
require at least 360 man-months of initial training and classroom instruction
before being posted. During the same period, BPM expects to make 25 senior
management appointments from within its present ranks, with corresponding
increases in the responsibility of lower level staff.  All staff would benefit
from in-service training, particularly in practical subjects such as
accounting, law, financial analysis, credit analysis, and management skills.
It is projected that 300 man-months of in-service training would be required,
or on average two man-weeks per staff member per annum. Items to be purchased



- 22 -
would include calculators, typewriters, airconditioners, blackboards, filing
cabinets, a photocopy machine, an educational TV system, and other furniture.
Altogether there would be about 15,000 sq ft of lecture halls, library, and
offices, and almost 9,000 sq ft of sleeping quarters, to be constructed at an
estimated cost of about $12 per sq ft.
3.06       Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance component of the
project is designed to overcome the predictable inadequacy of BPM-s capacity
to manage its rapid growth. A consultant reporting to the General Manager
would provide 24 man-months of expertise in the areas of financial management
and control, and corporate planning. He would set up systems to provide
senior management with timely and accurate data on the profitability of BPMs-
activities, and would assist management in drawing up a detailed corporate
plan to explore alternative ways of achieving the Government-s objectives for
BPM. During negotiations assurances were obtained that this appointment
would be made by December 31, 1980. A suitably qualified consultant reporting
to the head of the Training Department would be appointed to provide 12 man-
months of expertise in the design and management of executive training
courses.  A suitably qualified consultant reporting to the head of the
Research and Planning Department would be appointed for 24 man-months to
assist in the preparation of (a) technical and financial guidelines for use
in the analysis and operation of new lending programs, and (b) systems for
monitoring and providing feedback to branch managers on the quality of their
lending decisions in relation to targets.  Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.  Finally, 24 man-months of consultant time would
be made available to meet urgent needs as they arise, subject to the Bank's
approval. The estimated cost of $7,000 per man-month includes provision for
the cost of vehicles, international and local travel, and some other items.
3.07       Credit.  The project would finance all of the growth in BPM-s loan
portfolio, subject to conditions defining eligibility for reimbursement under
the project (para. 4.08). Lending for estate development would continue
to be an important element in BPMs growing portfolio, but there would also be
new types of lending and an expansion of loans to develop smallholdings - both
new holdings and existing holdings of senile rubber due for RISDA-aided
replanting. The portfolio expansion can be grouped under four headings, as
follows:
(a)  Smallholder Development.  The category of lending for small-
holder's land development (as compared with estate development)
has not been actively developed and represented only 5% of BPM-s
portfolio at the end of 1978. Under the project, this category
would be actively promoted in support of RISDA replanting
schemes in Peninsular Malaysia, pepper new planting and replanting
in Sarawak; and cocoa new planting in Sabah. The areas to be
developed per smallholder would be between 5 and 10 acres for
rubber and oil palm replanting (depending on the size of the
smallholder-s previous holding), 9 acres for the cocoa small-
holdings, and 1 acre for the pepper planting (which is very labor



- 23 -
intensive). Most of the investment financed by credit would enhance
the incomes of smallholder families below the poverty line.
(b)  Estates Development.  BRM will continue to put a large proportion
of its funds into estate development for rubber and oil palm in
Peninsular Malaysia, and for cocoa in Sabah. These enterprises are
frequently group cooperative ventures undertaken by the budding
Bumiputra middle class, and they involve the development of new
lands alienated by the states. The investments earn good profits,
and BP4 can make a positive return on its money with small risk.
These loans are relatively large and under the project they would be
above the free limit and thus subject to review by the Bank
(para. 4.08).
(c) Other Term Credits. The remaining term credits include BNM-s
financing of logging activities, agricultural equipment, working
capital of contractors (working on land clearing, felling, and
irrigation and drainage projects), other crops, livestock, fish-
eries, agribusiness, and land development. Some experimental
credit programs developed with the help of technical assistance
under the project would also be included in this category
(paras. 4.05 to 4.08). The Government is in the process of
reformulating its anti-poverty programs in the fisheries sector
and in the context of a new policy, BPM lending for aquaculture
might become significant.
(d) Production Credits. Production credits, primarily to smallholders,
will continue to be an important source of business for BP4, despite
the subsidy to paddy farmers (para. 2.25). The growth in production
credits to tobacco farmers is likely to offset completely the
decline due to the loss of paddy business.
Project Cost
3.08      Total project costs are estimated at $79.4 millon, of which
$30.0 million, or 38%, represents foreign exchange. Project cost estimates
are summarized in Table 3.1. Unit prices for equipment, materials, supplies
and civil works are based on recent quotations received for such items in
Malaysia.



- 24 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign  Total  Total  %
---- (M$ million) ----        ---- ($ million) ----  cost  F.E.
Smallholder development   21.1    11.2    32.2            9.9      5.2    15.1    17   34
Estates development          23.9    12.5    36.4        11.1      5.8    16.9    31   34
Other term credit            29.8    15.7    45.5        14.0      7.4    21.4    23   34
Production credit            18.3    22.3    40.6         8.7    10.3    19.0    21   55
Total Investments       94.2    61.5   155.7         43.8    28.6    72.4/a  92   39
Branch network               10.91    1.45   12.36        5.12    0.68    5.80    7   12
Training center               0.85    0.42    1.27        0.40    0.20    0.60    -   33
Technical assistance          0.19    1.07    1.26        0.10    0.50    0.60    -   85
Subtotal                12.16    2.73   14.89         5.62    1.38    7.00    8   18
Total Cost             106.2    64.5   170.7         49.4    30.0    79.4   100   38
/a  During the three year commitment period of the project, it is forecast that
growth in BPM's agricultural term lending would amount to about $48.3 million,
of which $42 million could' meet the eligibility requirements of the proposed
project (para. 4.08).  Past experience suggests that credit provides about
58% of total subproject cost, and $42 million of credit would therefore support
total on-farm investments of about $72.4 million.
Financing
3.09       The proposed project cost would be financed as shown in Table 3.2.
The proposed Bank loan of $30.0 million would finance the full foreign
exchange cost of the project, equivalent to 40% of project costs, exclusive of
taxes and duties.  For branch network expansion, training and technical
assistance, costs would be shared by the Bank (27%) and BPM (73%).  On-farm
costs, including estate development, would be shared by the beneficiaries
(29%), the Government (32%), and the Bank (39%).  The Government would provide
financing in the form of direct loans to BPM in support of its portfolio
expansion and direct grants to smallholders through RISDA. The Bank would
reimburse BPM for 67% of the eligible subloans equivalent to the estimated
foreign exchange cost. The Treasury would institute a permanent review
mechanism (para. 4.03) with the primary objective of determining the financial
needs of BPM.  These financing arrangements were assured during negotiations,
and would be reflected in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Treasury and
BPM. The signing of such a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to the Bank,
would be a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 25 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING
Beneficiaries    Government          Bank       Total
Amount   %      Amount    %    Amount   %   Amount
----------------- ($ million) -----------------
Branch  network              -      -       4.8      83     1.0    17      5.8
Training center              -      -       0.2      33     0.4    67      0.6
Technical assistance         -      -       0.1      14     0.5    85      0.6
Subtotal                -       -       5.1     73      1.9    27      7.0
Smallholder development    3.0   20         9.7      64     2.4    16    15.1
Estate development           8.5   50       3.2      17     5.3    31    16.9
Other term credit            6.5   30       5.0      23     9.9    47    21.3
Production credit            3.3   17       5.3      28    10.5    55    19.1
Subtotal               21.2   29       23.2     32    28.1    39    72.4
Total Project Cost          21.2   27      28.3      36    30.0    38    79.4
Procurement
3.10      In the case of equipment or construction financed by funds relent
to beneficiaries for the partial financing of subprojects, procurement would
be undertaken in accordance with established commercial practices. Major
international manufacturers are well represented in the local economy, and
there are sufficient local private contractors to ensure efficiency in
construction work. Funds would be disbursed by BPM against supporting
documentary evidence of purchase and/or physical inspection of subproject's
progress by BPM staff.
3.11      BPM would be permitted to purchase miscellaneous equipment items
costing less than $5,000 under arrangements for prudent local shopping, up
to a maximum total amount of $500,000. Otherwise local competitive bidding
arrangements would apply for both construction and equipment. The proposed
civil works are too small, and too widely scattered, to be of interest
to international contractors. Contracts in excess of $250,000 would be
submitted to the Bank for review prior to award. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that procurement under the project would be in
accordance with the above procedures.



- 26 -
Disbursement
3.12      The loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 67% of BR4-s disbursements of subloans in eligible categories,
against quarterly statements approved by the Treasury;
(b) 85% of the cost of civil works contracts and equipment contracts
for branch expansion, and construction and equipping of a training
center, where these contracts fulfill a development program sub-
mitted to and approved by BFM's board, against full documentation;
(c) 85% of the cost of prudent shopping for equipment items in support
of BFM's approved program of branch expansion, against certified
statements of expenditure; and
(d) 85% of the total cost of technical assistance, and contract
lectures.
3.13      In the case of disbursement against certified statements of
expenditure, supporting documentation would not be subnitted for review, but
would be retained by BFM for inspection by Bank supervision missions. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1985, approximately
18 months after the end of construction. An estimated quarterly schedule of
disbursements is set out in Annex 3.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
4.01      The primary implementing agency for the project would be BPM,
which would undergo no significant change in its organizational structure.
The Ministry of Agriculture, as part of the process of preparing the FMP will
set development objectives to indicate the preferred direction (in terms of
region, income class, ethnic group, and production subsector) in which BPM-s
portfolio should expand. The Treasury would provide supervision and periodic
detailed scrutiny of BEM½s performance and effectiveness.
4.02      BPM would undertake the Project activities as part of the three year
expansion of its structure and portfolio. The training component of the
project (para. 3.05) would provide the implementation capacity to achieve the
necessary staff expansion. It would provide course work specifically tailored
to the increased responsibilities of existing staff and would enhance the
effectiveness of BPM s Trainee Executive Program through which 90% of new
professional level recruits will be hired. The technical assistance component
(para. 3.06) is designed to overcome the predictable bottlenecks in BPM's



- 27 -
capacity to manage its rapid growth:  to ensure a steady improvement in
corporate control and planning as expansion proceeds; to ensure that training
courses remain relevant to changing staff needs; and to develop the range and
the flexibility of BPM's credit and savings programs.
4.03      The Treasury would institute a permanent review mechanism
(para. 3.09) for the purpose of estimating:
(a) BPM-s total financing needs in each financial year;
(b) the spread required by BPM to maintain financial stability;
(c) the appropriate maturity and average cost of BPM-s long-term
borrowing; and
(d) from the above, the amounts, terms and conditions upon which
Treasury funds should be onlent to BPM.
BPM would provide the Treasury-with financial statements and quarterly
progress reports. It is anticipated that improvements in BPM's management
accounting will provide BPM and the Treasury with a measure of the relation-
ship between particular BPM activities and BPM-s spread requirements. In
addition, BPM would prepare annual operating and financial plans for submis-
sion to the Government at least two months prior to the beginning of each
fiscal year. All documents prepared for the Government would be made
available for Bank review.
RISDA/BPM Cooperation
4.04      A key feature of the project would be the development of interagency
cooperation between RISDA and BPM, as BPM takes over RISDA's credit activi-
ties. The success with which these agencies work together will determine
the feasibility of the Government's policy for eventually concentrating all
agency credit in the hands of BPM. A coordinating group of staff from the
planning departments of BPM and RISDA has agreed on terms and conditions for
future credit, and has settled the functional demarcation of responsibilities
for each stage of the credit process, from identification of need, to collec-
tion of dues. The group, which includes the respective planning department
heads, would remain in existence to supervise and evaluate progress throughout
project implementation, and assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. During this initial stage, it is intended that BPM will take
over the provision of fertilizer credits in three states - Malacca, Kedah and
Perlis - and will provide other credits to RISDA smallholders nationwide.
RISDA's willingness to assist BPM in loan collection, and its involvement in
the marketing of smallholders' output, should keep arrears at a low level.



- 28 -
New Credit and Savings Programs
4.05       The nature of existing BPM credit programs has been identified as
one of the major constraints upon the institution's further growth, and
technical assistance to develop new credit and savings programs would be pro-
vided under the project. The experience of other country's credit systems
indicate some fruitful lines of possible development.
4.06       Deposit mobilization should somehow be linked to lending, since it
is not primarily the interest rate paid on deposits that attracts the small
saver, but the improved access he has to credit. Additional savings and
savers will be forthcoming (particularly contractual or program savers) if it
is widely known that credit is almost automatically available in some multiple
of the savings balance. BPM's readiness to provide small and short-term
credits would have other institutional benefits. The collection problem is
likely to be reduced if borrowers know that once they have repaid, they can
borrow again promptly and almost automatically. They will also be more
inclined to meet their obligations to BPM when they appreciate that BPM is
using local savings, not government funds, in support of its credits.
4.07       An increased willingness on the part of BPM to refinance short-term
credits would tend to obscure the distinction between production and invest-
ment credits. However, investment credits would normally be larger in
relation to the borrower-s income and have a clearer impact on the production
processes in the sector.  BPM may be able, by granting short-term credits, to
bring small farmers to the point where they can usefully employ investment
credits. This process would represent one good measure of BPM-s success in
inducing increased production and income in the rural sector.
Lending Terms and Conditions
4.08       The Bank loan would be disbursed against the eligible portion of
BPM's loan portfolio growth, where eligibility would be defined by the
following conditions.  First, of the set of loans against which the Bank would
disburse in any quarter, 80% in number and 25% in value would be below $14,000
(M$30,000). Secondly, BPM management would have a free limit of $115,000
(M$250,000), which is also the limit above which BPM management has to present
a project to its board. Over the free limit, the Bank would undertake a
normal desk appraisal before giving its approval, and for loans over $470,000
(M$1,000,000), this appraisal would take account of the distributional impact
of the proposed investment. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
4.09       BPM will onlend at a minimum interest rate of 1.5% over prime for
production credits and loans to smallholders participating in RISDA replanting
schemes. At the present time, this lending rate would be 9%, which is consis-
tent with the 9-11% presently charged by commercial banks for agricultural
loans. In comparison, inflation during the past three years has averaged



- 29 -
about 4%, and the current rate of 5% is expected to hold for the next three
years. For other types of BPM lending the length of maturities and the
frequency of repayments would depend upon the borrower's financial capacity.
The most extended terms permitted are typically:  for trawler loans, 5 years-
maturity with 1 years- grace; for cocoa smallholdings, 7 years' maturity with
1 years- grace; for pepper small holders, 7 years maturity with 2 years'
grace; for oil palm mini-estates, 10 years' maturity with 4 years' grace; and
for rubber mini-estates, 15 year maturity with 8 years- grace.  BPM requires
that the smallholder's equity in the project be at least 20%.
4.10       BPM lending to corporations and groups for equipment, contracting,
agribusiness, and estate development is on higher rates than those above, with
interest at 10-11%.  In comparison, commercial banks presently charge 9-11%
for agricultural loans. Inflation during the past three years has averaged
about 4%, and the current rate of 5% is expected to hold for the next three
years. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that no material changes
in the terms and conditions set out in this and in para. 4.09 would be made
without prior consultation with the Bank.
Accounts and Audit
4.11       No special or separate project accounts would be necessary or
desirable since the project represents the financing of BPMs general growth
over a three-year period. BPM-s accounting procedures are sound, although
some improvement in timeliness is needed, particularly in the provision of
branch accounts to headquarters. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that BPM would appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that
BPM's accounts together with the auditor's comments and opinions would be sent
to the Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal-year.
5. TECHNICAL ASSUMPTIONS
5.01      More than three quarters of BPM-s current term lending is for
smallholder and estate development of those crops - rubber, oil palm
coconut, cocoa, and pepper - in which Malaysia has a distinct comparative
(and even absolute) advantage. The production technology is highly
advanced, and the best practices are widely known and used. Under the
proposed project, this pattern of lending is expected to continue, and the
following yields were assumed in order to arrive at an economic and
financial rate of return for subproject investments:



- 30 -
Table 5.1: YIELDS FROM SUBPROJECT INVESTMENTS
Yield per acre
Crop                       High             Medium /a            Low
Smallholders
Rubber (lbs)                     1,250             1,070               890
Oil palm (tons FFB)                   6.7              5.7               4.8
Copra (tons)                          1.3              1.1               1.0
Cocoa (lbs, dry beans)           1,340               980               710
White pepper (lbs)               8,400             7,000             5,000
Estate
Rubber (lbs)                     1,780             1,570             1,250
Oil palm (tons FFB)                  8                 6.9               5.7
Copra (tons)                         2.2               1.8               1.5
Cocoa (lbs, dry beans) /b        1,780             1,340             1,070
/a Medium was used in farm models.
/b In Sabah conditions.
6. MARKETING AND PRICES
6.01      There are no foreseeable difficulties in marketing the output of
enterprises borrowing under the project. There are widely accessible
marketing channels for all of the commodities. Efficient private bulking and
milling facilities exist throughout the country to serve both estates and
smallholders producing rubber and oil palm. Output from rubber mini-estates
will be sold either to the nearest Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation
factory, or processed into smoked sheet at one of the smallholder's develop-
ment centers.  Small-scale farmers, in the short run, may continue to have
smallholders producing rubber and oil palm. Output from rubber mini-estates
will be sold either to the nearest Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation
factory, or processed into smoked sheet at one of the smallholder's develop-
ment centers.  Small-scale farmers, in the short run, may continue to have
difficulty getting favorable prices for their lower quality, unprocessed cocoa
beans, but processing centers being set up by the Federal Agricultural
Marketing Association are expected to greatly improve the marketing situation.
The Pepper Marketing Board's activities in processing, grading, and certi-
fication of pepper, and its accreditation of pepper dealers, have greatly
improved marketing arrangements for small farmers.



- 31 -
6.02       There is strong demand for all of the above products, and most of
the rubber, palm oil, cocoa, and pepper will find ready export markets.
Prices were assumed as shown in Table 6.1 in order to arrive at a financial
rate of return for subproject investments.
Table 6.1: PRICE ASSUMPTIONS /a
Financial Price
($' per metric ton)
Crop                                    1980          1985         1990
Rubber (c.i.f. New York)                      1,442          1,504        1,647
Palm oil (c.i.f. Europe)                        605            610          587
Kernel (c.i.f. Europe)                          455            465          451
Copra, Grade 1 (c.i.f. Europe)                  585            659          629
Cocoa (c.i.f. Europe)                         3,523         2,649         1,804
White pepper                                  -------------  220  ---
/a World Bank Commodity Price Projections in April 1980. In the financial
analysis, the average of 1985 and 1990 prices was used.
6.03       The main parameters in the farm modeling of subproject investments
are summarized in Annex 4. They indicate that for the most likely mix of
investments, both in the estate and smallholder sectors, financial rates of
return in excess of 20% are predictable.
7. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01       The proposed project would increase the competition in the supply
of production credits, and expand the volume of term lending available to the
agricultural sector by its support of BPM. It would do this by increasing
the breadth of BPM's coverage of the agricultural sector, increasing the
depth of BPM's penetration of the sector, and introducing a more effective
system of financial and management controls.
7.02       It has not been possible to make a fully quantitative estimate of
the gains to be achieved by these institutional developments. However, farm
models were developed to measure benefits from the subproject investments
supported by BPM's lending. The data provided in Annex 4 indicate that for



- 32 -
estates the lowest economic rate of return is 16% in the case of rubber,
and the likely mix of estate investments would generate an economic return
above 20%. For smallholders the economic rates of return range from 16% up
to 30%.  As with estates, the average economic rate of return on smallholder
investments in these crops would be over 20%.  Economic analysis involved
adjustment of the financial analysis to net out taxes, duties and subsidies;
the shadow price of labor was taken at $2.80 per diem, and "banking
services" were charged at the rate of 2% of outstanding debt for estates,
and 7% for smallholders. The derivation of farm-gate prices from world
prices is set out in Annex 5. In addition, there is an income redistribu-
tion to be achieved through about 2,100 loans to smallholders in association
with RISDA's new planting and replanting schemes. These loans would allow
smallholders who have no savings to participate in RISDA schemes. These
smallholders are in the poverty group. They represent about 25% of the
total estimated beneficiaries of sublending under the project, and they
would be raised above the poverty level.
7.03      Important longer-term benefits from the proposed project are
derived from an efficient institutional credit system (para. 3.01). In
summary, benefits include: improved efficiency in the banking system,
leading to economic efficiency and welfare gains in the whole sector;
improvement in government's control of its agricultural and monetary policy;
provision of a means for offsetting the predictable drain of liquidity from
the sector; and improvement in the effectiveness of other government
agencies following the transfer of their credit programs to BPM. These
long-term benefits would not arise directly from the present project, but
only over a span of about ten years, during which the Bank would expect to
continue its support to BPM.
Risks
7.04      No major risks are foreseen in the implementation of the project
and the achievement of project goals. The critical constraint on BPM-s
development is institutional, and particularly the availability of qualified
staff. Proposed expansion plans have been tailored to these constraints.
The feasibility of managing an innovative and financially self-sustaining
rural credit system has been demonstrated elsewhere. The approach most
suitable for Malaysian circumstances can certainly be arrived at during
project implementation. With informal lenders charging effective interest
rates upwards of 30% p.a., this is clearly possible, as well as urgently
needed.
7.05      There is some risk that evolution of the system may be arrested
before the full array of longer term benefits has been attained. The system's
long-term development depends upon continued improvement in BPM's management
capacity. It also requires a consistent and favorable policy framework,
especially on such issues as interest rate controls, the overlapping
responsibility of different public sector agencies, and the use of subsidies



- 33 -
and grants for welfare and development purposes. The more effective BPM can
become in the immediate future, the more likely it is that its evolution
will be unchecked, with the Government providing the necessary resources and
policy framework.
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the govern-
ment that:
(a)  with regard to BPII subsidiaries, no further infusion of equity or
loan funds will be made by BPM (para. 2.18);
(b)  Bat headquarters staff would only grow by 10% over the period
1981 to 1984, with the rest of the staff expansion deployed across
the network of new and existing branches (para. 3.04);
(c)  suitably qualified consultants would be appointed by BPM to provide
12 man-months of expertise in the design and management of
executive training courses, 24 man-months on the design, introduc-
tion and development of rural savings and credit programs, and 24
man-months of expertise in the financial management and planning of
a development bank, with the financial management and planning
expert to be in place by December 31, 1980 (para. 3.06);
(d)  it would agree to the procurement procedures outlined in
paras. 3.10 and 3.11;
(e)  it would agree to the disbursement procedures outlined in
paras. 3.12 and 3.13;
(f)  BPM would prepare annual operating and financial plans for submis-
sion to the Government at least two months prior to the beginning
of each fiscal year (para. 4.03);
(g)  a coordinating group of staff from the planning departments of
BPM and RISDA would remain in existence to supervise and evaluate
progress throughout the period of project implementation
(para. 4.04);
(h)  it would agree to the conditions governing loan eligibility (for
purposes of Bank loan disbursement) outlined in para. 4.08);
(i)  the terms and conditions of lending outlined in paras. 4.09 and
4.10 are acceptable to the Bank and would not be materially
altered without consultation; and



- 34 -
(j) BPM would appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and that BPM's accounts together with the auditor's comments and
opinions would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close
of the fiscal year (para. 4.11).
8.02       A condition of loan effectiveness would be the ratification of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Treasury and BPM, acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.09).
8.03       Subject to these assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of $30.0 million, with a 17-year maturity including a grace
period of 4 years. The Borrower would be the Federation of Malaysia.



-35-                              ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA RURAL CREDIT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Financial Performance and Projections
Introduction
1.        Since it began operation in 1969, Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) has
grown rapidly whether measured in terms of total assets (M$635.0 million as
of 12/31/78), deposits (M$506 million), loans outstanding (M$129.9 million),
annual loan approvals (M$98 million in 1978), number of branches (24) or
personnel (560). Its lending policies and operating procedures have been
generally sound, and the bank has placed increasing emphasis on agricultural
production and small-scale loans in recent years. However, BPM has experi-
enced some difficulties as a result of this rapid, early growth: portfolio
quality is unsatisfactory; budgeting and financial information procedures are
inadequate for the current size and complexity of operation; and there appear
to be inadequate cost control measures. However, despite the conclusion that
there is scope to improve the bank's financial performance, it is recognized
that BPM's development role will require it to continue to incur costs and
accept risks greater than those experienced in normal banking operations.
Lending Operations
2.        Over the five year period 1974-1978, BPM's annual loan approvals
increased at an average rate of 30%, to reach M$98 million in 1978. Loans
outstanding as of 12/31/78 totalled M$129.9 million.
Approved in         Outstanding
1978 Ia           12/31/78 /b
-- (M$ million) --------
Padi                                   16.3                19.5
Tobacco                                24.0                 3.7
Agribusiness                            3.1                18.1
Land purchase/development              43.1                 8.0
Fisheries                               5.5                 5.8
Oil palm & sugar cane                  n.a.                52.8
Livestock                                .5                 3.8
Equipment                               1.8                 3.2
Others                                  3.5                15.0
Total                             97.9               129.9
/a  Table 1.
/b  Table 3.



- 36 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.         The most significant growth has been in short-term padi and tobacco
lending (Tables 1 & 2) for which BPM operates a "scheme" of simplified credit
through local intermediaries. There is considerable fluctuation in the term
structure of approvals from year to year, but the average ratio during
1974-1977 was about 70:15:15, short; medium: long-term. In 1978 there was a
signifcant decline in padi lending as a result of drought in the previous
year. There was also a major expansion in long-term estate development
lending, with the result that short-term and long-term lending each accounted
for 44% of approvals. This instability in BPM operations poses serious
problems for financial planning, and the conditions and policies that give
rise to it should be one of the priorities for examination under the technical
assistance arrangements of the proposed project.
4.         Two other features of lending operations during the period should
be noted. First, the average size of loans, in current terms, declined from
M$70,000 in 1974 to M$22,500 in 1978. While this implies growing administra-
tive costs as a percent of portfolio, it is a significant indication of BPM's
commitment to the development of smaller farmers and entrepreneurs. Second,
loan disbursements typically averaged only 60% of loan approvals, another
cause of high administrative costs, but one which is experienced by other
formal lenders to Malaysian agricultural activities and one for which a
satisfactory explanation has yet to be determined.
Quality of Loan Portfolio
5.        The overall level of arrears in BPM's portfolio was 26.4% as of
December 31, 1978 (Tables 3 and 4). Although tobacco loans appear to be the
worst, at 93% arrears, these are in fact very recent maturities; by February
of each year most loans are repaid, and in fact tobacco loans are not a
problem category (Table 5). Fifty-nine percent of padi loans were in
arrears at December 31, 1978, a result of severe drought conditions in the
area of credit concentration. Historically, padi farmers have shown
themselves willing and able to repay past due loans over a period of two to
three years (Table 6), although the recent government announcement of 100%
subsidy on inputs may jeopardize the lender-borrower relationship on which
that performance was based. Of most serious concern in terms of amount and
percent past due are several large sugar loans extended in the early 1970s
(Table 7). Amortizations past due as of December 31, 1978, were in excess
of M$10 million or 33% of amounts outstanding.  The largest borrower is
Sharikat Gula N.S., a joint venture involving the Negri Sembilan State
Development Corporation.  This loan of M$25.1 million accounted for 19% of
BPM's outstanding portfolio at the end of 1978 and 27% of its arrears.  The
cabinet-level National Action Council has been reviewing this matter in
recent months, and while a final resolution has yet to be taken it appears
that arrangements are to be made for BPM to recoup most of the outstanding
principal of this loan.



- 37 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 3
6.        The overall agricultural portfolio can be summed up as follows.
Of the M$129.9 million in loans as of December 31, 1978, M$95.5 million was
up-to-date (73.6%), M$14.0 million (10.8%) was in arrears up to ten months,
and M$17.6 million represented unpaid amounts which were due prior to 1978
(13.6%). It is quite possible that up to 30% of the paddy loans (M$3.4 mil-
lion) may have to be written off and loans amounting to another M$3-4 million
are only partially recoverable. Losses from sugar loans are expected to be
over M$5 million, resulting in a total of probable bad debts in the range of
M$12-M$15 million. Against these losses, BPM's provision for bad debts
amounted to only M$0.6 million. Auditors' comments support these observa-
tions.
7.        While the above discussion has focused on extenuating circumstances
which have given rise to arrears in BPM's portfolio, it is also apparent
from our review that internal procedures and rapid growth have left room for
improvement in supervision and collection effort. There is a need to inten-
sify supervision effort and to focus senior management attention on several
large loans that are in arrears./1
Present Financial Condition
8.        As of December 31, 1978, total assets of BPM were M$635 million
(Table 9). Money market investments accounted for 70% of the total (M$446
million), an increase in share and amount from 28% and M$26 million in 1974.
The loan portfolio accounted for 20% of total assets at the end of 1978
(M$129.3 million net), a decline in share from 46% over the proceeding five
years, despite growth in amount from M$41.9 million. Book value of earning
assets/total assets increased fractionally over the period from 94% to 95%.
/1 Of the nonagricultural portfolio BPM's single largest and most doubtful
investment is in an affiliated holding company. As of December 31, 1978,
equity holdings amounted to M$11.4 million, and loans totalled M$19.1
million. The subsidiary companies have accumulated substantial losses
and it is doubtful that BRP could recover any significant part of its
investments in these subsidiaries without external intervention. The
National Action Council recently examined the organization and operation
of these companies and instructed that several actions be taken which
will improve financial control and performance. For purposes of this
appraisal, the operation of the subsidiaries has been assumed to be a
separate issue, and no provision has been made for losses nor for the
realization of income from these investments.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
- 38 -
1974            1978
(12/31)         (12/ 1)
----- (M$ million) ----
Assets
Loans (net)                            41.9           129.3
Investments                            25.7           445.8
Investments (subsidiaries)             18.6            30.5
Fixed assets (net)                      2.2            24.5
Other                                   3.3             5.0
Total                             91.7            635.1
Liabilities
Deposits                               30.2           516.2
Loans from government                  50.0            50.0
Agricultural time deposits               -             27.8
Total                             80.2            594.0
Equity
Paid-up capital                        10.0            40.0
Reserves                                1.5             1.1
Total                              11.5            41.1
Total Liabilities and Equity             91.7           635.1
9.        This significant growth in assets has been financed by three prin-
cipal sources: (a) deposits of M$30.2 million accounted for 33% of total
resources as of 12/31/74 and increased to M$516.2 million which was 81% of
total resources as of 12/31/78; (b) loans and equity from Government accounted
for M$60 million or 65% of total assets as of 12/31/74. Funds outstanding
from the same source amounted to M$90.0 million (M$50 million in loans and
M$40 million in equity) or 14% of total resources as of December 31, 1978;
(c) the third significant source of funds to BPM has been deposits raised
from commercial banks through Bank Negara-s instruction, which requires
commercial banks to direct a minimum of 3% of their deposits to agricultural
lending. In practice, commercial banks deposit a portion of these funds
with either Bank Negara (the central bank) or BPM for on-lending to agricul-
ture.  The latter is not required to accept these deposits but has done so
in recent years based on lending use proposals submitted to Bank Negara.
These 12-month deposits, bearing 6.5% per annum, accounted for 4% of BPM's
resources as of December 31, 1978.  The weighted average cost of capital for
BPM is 6.1% (Table 10).



- 39 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 5
The Role of Money Market Operations
10.       Deposit and lending rates in Malaysia are strongly influenced by
Government directives and the margin afforded to BPM is inadequate to meet
its costs in lending to medium- and small-scale enterprises. The average
cost of deposits was 7.0% as of December 31, 1978 (Table 14), and the maximum
lending rate was 9%, based on a Treasury directive that the rate to specified
clientele should not exceed 1.5% above prime. BPM's average administrative
cost of credit operations on the other hand was 5.5%, and while there is
scope for reduction of this cost it is not reasonable to expect BPM to be
able to extend agricultural credit within the 2% margin afforded by the
present interest rate structure. Money market operations provide a reason-
ably secure opportunity to invest deposit resources profitably. The yield
of 7.5% (Table 13) generates a net income of 0.1% which is used partially to
offset the cost of agricultural lending.
Operating Performance
11.       BPM's reported net income has declined from M$0.9 million (21% of
revenues) in 1974 to a negligible surplus of M$11,700 in 1978 (Table 11).
However, these figures are determined on an accrual basis without adequate
provision for unrealized income. The 1978 income figure is reported before
provision for bad debts and provisions in previous years have been inadequate
(total M$0.6 million at 12/31/77). A realistic provision for these items
would result in the reporting of substantial operating losses over the
period./l   An examination of operating margins and administration costs
provides the several explanations for this income performance.
/1  (a)  Average income              8.7
Less:  cost of funds        .9
Gross margin               7.8
Operating costs            5.5
Net before provision       2.3
(b)  If the estimated bad debts in the present portfolio (M$10-13 million)
is related to cumulative disbursements 1970-1976 of M$250 million,
the actual loss rate is 4-5% of loans disbursed. In other words
the credit portfolio generated net losses equivalent to 1.7-2.7% of
disbursements.



- 40 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 6
12.        Operating Margins.  BPM presently realizes an average gross income
of 8.7% from its credit operations.  The average cost of equity capital and
government loans with deferred interest (most of which is uncharged) is 0.9%,
providing BPM with an explicit gross margin of 7.8%. Present administrative
costs of 5.5% leave only 2.3% for bad debts.  Recovery rates are conserva-
tively estimated at 90% for short-term and 95% for medium- and long-term
loans, although it would be reasonable to expect that an average loss rate of
only 4-5% per year could be achieved over time. On the other hand some
developmental costs and inefficiencies could be reduced.  On this basis, a
break-even performance could reasonably be projected on credit operations
after a period of five or six years. However, two factors mitigate against
this projection:
(a)  The quality of the present portfolio is poor bpcallse of
inadequate capacity in the past to write-off old, unrecovered
loans.
(b) BPM is increasingly using deposit money to finance credit
operations. At an average financial cost of 7.0% per annum,
a significant loss is inevitably incurred on this portion of
the portfolio under present on-lending rates./l
13.       Administration Costs.  BPM's 5.5% cost for credit administration
is higher than might be expected from a comparison with commercial banks
offering apparently similar services in other countries. There are several
reasons for this:
(a) The bank is still in an early stage of rapid growth wherein
the cost of recruitment, training and the establishment of
facilities must exceed both stable long-term levels and the
rate at which business develops to meet these costs.
(b) The economic development role of the bank is such that it is
expected to maintain certain facilites (such as branches) and
services (such as savings deposits) which are not financially
self-sufficient.
(c) Financial management information within the bank has not been
developed to the point where decisions can be taken with
careful consideration of cost effectiveness. This, together
with experimentation in credit delivery mechanisms has given
rise to certain inefficiencies.
(d) Business development efforts are hampered by the existence of
other public sources of credit at lower costs.
/1 For example: if the desposit/money market investment gap of M$70 million
in 1978 was used entirely for credit, the loss before bad debt provision
would have been M$2.5 million [70 x (.07 + .055 - .09)].



- 41 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 7
14.       Under existing interest rate ceilings the very best performance
that can be expected of BPM, without new sources of income, is that its
income be sufficient to meet financial and operating costs.  It will be some
years before BPM is able to meet this target, and it assumes continuation of
the practice of providing the bank with government loans sufficient to meet
portfolio requirements, and that the cost of such loans can be borne by
earnings on money market investments.
Policy Issues for Capitalization
15.       BPM must operate within certain financial constraints if it is to
remain a financially viable institution. In summary these are: (a) it cannot
afford to use deposits for credit operations; (b) future growth in agricul-
tural lending must be financed by long term resources provided by GOM, at
least in the forseeable future, interest on which should be deferred at least
five years; (c) BPM may carefully explore other banking related activities
within its present mandate, that can provide some positive results on the
bottom line. These alternatives are explored in the financial projections.
Financial Projections
16.       Two sets of financial projections compare outcomes under the
following assumptions.
(a)  Projection I
Tables 15, 16 and 17 give the Income Statements, Cash Flows and the
Balance Sheets respectively, assuming the present conditions,
namely:
(i)  BPM will receive M$10.0 million in equity of the remaining
M$75.77 million due under the Third Malaysia Plan and the
balance as loans at 4% p.a.;
(ii) BPM will continue to tap resources generated through time
deposits to finance, among other activites, some of the antici-
pated growth in agricultural lending;
(iii) BPM will not continue to raise deposits via Bank Negara's
directive of mobilizing commercial bank's deposits to be
chanelled into agriculture;
(iv) Leasing activities will expand rapidly; and
(v)  Loan recovery rates will be 90% for short-term and 95% for
term loan.
Under these assumptions it is expected that BPM will consistently show an
annual operating loss which will reach approximately M$27 million by 1988.



- 42 - 
Page 8
(b) Projection II
Tables 18, 19 and 20 give the projected Income Statement, Cash Flows
and Balance Sheets respectively, under the following assumptions:
(i) BRP will balance money market investments and deposits;
(ii) Additional resources will be made available to BPM in a blend,
almost half of which would be on-lent Bank funds at 9.25% p.a.,
with the remainder being a combination of long term loans
from Government at 4% p.a. and Government subsidy;
(iii) BRI will not continue to raise deposits through Bank Negara's
directive of mobilizing commercial bank's deposits to be
channeled into agriculture;
(iv) Leasing activities will expand rapidly; and
(v) Loan recovery rates will be 90% for short-term and 95% for
long term loans.
17.       Under these assumptions, there is a projected growth in net income.
However, this arises largely from increasingly active participation in
leasing business, and is dependent upon the provision of an adequate annual
subsidy from Government. The projection shows the annual subsidy increasing
to M$20.8 million by 1988.
BPM - Operations
18.       BPM's organizational structure is roughly in balance with its
requirements, but like any relatively new and expanding organization, it
shows some stresses and strains. The more obvious ones include:
(a) delays of three to four months in processing the consolidated
monthly returns for the head office and the branches;
(b) lack of orientation towards financial management in individual
schemes and projects including their costing in terms of staff
time and overheads;
(c) lack of evaluation of branch profitability;
(d) lack of formulation of profit oriented budgets and their
follow-up;
(e) insufficent emphasis on analysis of outstanding and problematic
issues; and
(f) inadequate long term planning, subsequent critical review
each year, and the determination of implications and revisions.



- 43 -                                ANNEX 1
Page 9
19.       It would be desirable for BPM to modify its operations in the
above mentioned areas in the following ways:
(a) Accounting: Make the necessary procedural adjustments to
establish and maintain up-to-date accounts at head office. BPM-s
senior management should emphasize to branch managers the
importance of providing their reports on time.
(b) Financial Reporting and Planning: In a report on the annual
financial reviews that the mission examined, the analysis of per-
formance and the presentation were excellent. But the analysis
did not focus on problem areas and explore their implications for
the senior management. The staff should be encouraged to use their
initiative, and make some of their reports issue oriented.
(c) Financial Planning: Management is now beginning to focus on formu-
lating a long-term plan to evaluate BPM's prospects, and the
implications of certain actions, in financial terms. This is a
necessary step in the right direction.
(d)  Budgeting:  At present the budget is cost oriented, and not geared
to profit issues. The present procedure is to consolidate the
projected level of expenses and profits and present them to the
Budget Committee for approval. The objective of the budget should
be to provide a reasonable forecast of the expected revenues from
each activity, and relate expenses to them so that a desirable
profit level can be maintained. Such a procedure requires two
reviews of the budget prior to final approval. The first step
would be to consolidate expenses of various departments, and
relate them to forecasted revenues.  If necessary an informal
review of the budget should be made by the heads of the Planning,
Administrative, Personnel, Budgeting and Finance Departments and
the expenses trimmed where necessary to maintain a desirable profit
level. Subsequent to its approval the budget should be reviewed
every quarter, and if there are revenue shortfalls then certain
expenses may have to be revised to maintain the profit levels.
Finally every five years or so BPM could benefit from applying zero
based budgeting. Although an expensive exercise, it would trim the
excess expenditures that a traditional budget tends to accumulate.
(e) Profitability Analysis: BPM should undertake a cost analysis
of all its operations including those of the branches, to assess
the contribution of each branch and activity to net income. The
review should also cover an analysis of how the performance in
each sector and branch can be improved.
(f) Branch Expansion: At present BPM plans for branch expansion in
terms of staffing, without relating the proposed staff expansion
to the performance level achieved to that date. Branch staff



- 44 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 10
expansion and the head office expansion should not anticipate
activity levels so much as respond to them.
(g) Feasibility studies should be undertaken for each type of activity
prior to expansion.
(h) Worktime and Procedures Study: At present BPR appears to be
overstaffed. It should undertake a work time and procedures study
to determine the appropriate level of staffing for its present and
proposed levels of activity.



MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Loans Approved According to Activity, 1974-1978
(M$ 000)
1974            1975            1976            1977              1978
No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.  Amount    No.  Amount    No.   Amount
Short-term paddy production
credit scheme                  225   18,340   211   26,303   174  28,462    206  27,768    182   16,336
Short-term tobacco production
& marketing credit scheme       40    3,479    84    9,101    83   8,705    111  18,333    120   24,032
Agricultural equipment            212       899   184       903   133       593    395   1,579    764    1,836
Other crops                        21       222    62       322   140       829    198      822    456    2,150
Livestock                           1         4    16       335    16        76      74     523      91       493
Fisheries                           4       129    40       220   139       896    294   1,756  1,092    5,502
Land purchase & development        12       229    26       274    59       592      98   1,165    240    2,933
Agribusiness /a                    13    7,053    25    1,689    44   7,679    154   7,545    282    3,065
Estate development                  2    6,652      4    7,000       5   7,663        6   6,459      21   40,448
Others /b                           -         -     -         -    79       218    721       703  1,094    1,058
Total                        530   37,007   652   46.147   872  55,713  2,257  66,673  4,342   97,853
/a  Includes contract loans.                                              x
/b  Includes educaional loan scheme, pineapple credit scheme and forestry.



- 46 -                                                  ANNEX I
Table 2
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Loans Approved According to 11aturity, 1974-1978
(M$ '000)
1974            1975             1976              1977              1978
No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.   Amount    No.   Amount:   No.   Amount
Short-term
Paddy                           225   18,340   211   26,303   174   28,462    206   27,768    182   16,336
Tobacco                          40    3,479    84    9,101    83    8,705    111   18,333           120   24,032
Equipment                         -         -      -         -     -          -      -         -      28        22
Other crops                      11        44    19         61    54       376      63       206    110        242
Livestock                         -         -      -         -      -         -       3        39      3        20
Fisheries                         -         -      5         8    13        20      28        45      77       156
Land purchase/development         -         -      -         -      -         -       1         2      2         2
Agribusiness                      2        76    13        196    26    1,223       90    1,135    1R7    1,702
Others                            -         -      -         -    58        170    687       443  1,058        744
Subtotal                    278   21,939   332   35,669   408   38,956  1,189   48,041  1,767   43,256
Medium-term
Equipment                       212       899   184        903   133       593    395    1,579    736    1,814
Other crops                      10       178    38        105    81       298    127        390    243    1,057
Livestock                         1         4    16        335    16        76      70       476      88       473
Fisheries                         4       129    35        212   126       876    262    1,597  1,012    5,309
Land purchase/development         5        24    18        107    38       276      64       572    173    1,292
Agribusiness                     10    3,227    11         993    17    6,276       64    6,410       94    1,304
Estate development                -         -      1       700      1        15       1       50       -         -
Others                            -         -      -         -    21        48      34       210      36       314
Subtotal                    242    4,461   303    3,355   433    8,458  1,017   11,284  2,432   11,519
Long-term
Other crops                       -         -      5       156      5       155      8       226      53       851
Livestock                         -         -      -         -      -         -       1         8      -         -
Fisheries                         -         -      -         -     -         -       4       114       3        41
Land purchase/development         7       205      8       167    21       316      33       591      65    1,670
Agribusiness                      1    3,750       1       500      1       180      -         -       1        99
Estate development                2    6,652       3    6,300      4    7,648        5    6,409       21   40,448
Subtotal                      10   10,607    17    7,123    31    8,299          51    7,348    14.3   43,07R
Total                       530   37,007   652   46,147   872   55,713  2,257   66,673  4,342   97,853



MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Loans Outstanding and Loans in Arrear by Crops, 1974-1978
(11$' 000)
1974                        1975                        1976                        1977                         1978
Out-                        Out-                        Out-                       Out-                        Out-
standing  Arrears   %    standing  Arrears   %   standing Arrears   7    standing Arrears   %    standing  Arrears    %
Padi                                5,958     1,573    26       9,934       3,207   32   11,726       5,406   46      12,704      7,245   57        19,517    11,560    59
Tobacco                               629        629   100       1,212      1,212  100      1,769     1,769  100        1,773     1,750   99         3,648     3,387    93
Equipment                           2,187        356    16       2,004        551   27      1,528        448   29       2,468       614   25         3,190       673   21
Agribusiness                        3,890        188      5      5,634        171     3    9,207         904   10       9,981     1,643    16       17,579     2,143    12
Livestock                           1,981        180      9      2,417        144    6    2,729          603   22       3,171     1,085   34         3,768     1,500   39
Forestry                                -          -      -          -           -    -          -         -    -         154          6    4          428       130   30
Fisheries                              95          2      2      2,063        281   14    2,696          265   10       2,798        235    8        5,809       644   11
Land purchase/developnent              716         -      -        770           9    1    1,557          35    2       2,380        108    5        7,990        297     1
Cnntract                                 8         -      _          6           4   67         21         5   24         972         60    6          493        167   34
Education                               _        -                   -           -    -          9         1   11         163         46   28          185        136   74
Oil paln                            1,431        107      7      2.301        103    4    9,161           85     1    16,560         562     3      22,411         91     4
Sugar cane                         22,512       967       4    23,910       3,906   16   23,907       3,907    16    30,820       9,598   31        30,423    10,054    33
Others                                727        246    34       2,423        602   25    7,709          681     9      3,229        783   24       14,408     3,533    24
Total                           40 134    4,248    11    52 674         10,190   19   72,019           3   20    87.173   23735   27           129,850   341    26
3PI
{FIr



MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Loans Outstanding and Loans in Arrear by Term, 1974-1978
(M$ million)
1974                      1975                        1976                       1977                         1978
Out-             Arr.      Out-              Arr.   Out-               Arr.    Out-                  Arr.    Out-                 Arr.
standing  Arrears  %       standing  Arrears  x   standing Arrears   X    standing  Arrears             z    standing  Arrears    X
Short-term loans                      6.84      2.42   35.4    11.43        4.67   40.9  13.85    5.87   42.4    15.93           9.82     61.6       27-54     15-91   57.8
Medium-term loans                     5.47      0.87   15.9       8.20      3.09   37.7   9.87    3.78   38.3    12.60           4.55      36.1      27.21      6.19   22.7
Long-term loans                      27.83      0-95    3.4    33.04        2.43    7.4  48.30    4.46    9-2    58.64           9.36      16.0      75.11     12.22    16.3   1
Total                          40.13      4.24   10.6    52.67       10.19   24.0  72.02    14.11   19.6    87.17        23.74      27.2    129.85    34.32   26.4
a, z



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN IMALAYS IA
Loan Collection Rate - Tobacco as of 12/31/78
(M$'000)
Disbursement                       Recovery rate
Year       Crop        Principal  Interest /a  Total       Repayment          %
1972        1           1,437        168        1,605        1,404           87
1973        1           1,614        112        1,726        1,639           95
1974        1           2,858         84        2,942        2,813           96
1975        1           7,776       334         8,110        7,724           95
1976        1           6,511        226        6,737        6,493           96
1977        1          15,005        309       15,314       15,152           99
1978        1          19,234       420        19,654       17,215           88
Total             54,435     1,653        56,088       52,440           94
/a Including penalties.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Table 6
JIALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Loan Collection Rate - Padi as of 12/31/78
(M$'000)
Disbursemett                        Recovery rate
Year        Crop        Principal  Interest /a  Total        Repayment           %
1970         1             58           6           64           64          100
2            271          31          302          302          100
1971         1            830          88          918          912           99
2          1,272         137        1,409        1,330           94
1972         1          1,750         194        1,944        1,834           94
2          2,211         185        2,396        2,263           94
1973         1          2,678         224        2,902        2,787           96
2          3,091         132        3,223        2,964           92
1974         1          4,516         198        4,714        4,374           93
2         5,883          252        6,135        5,600           91
1975         1          7,525         322        7,847        7,273           93
2          8,534         370        8,904        8,082           91
1976         1          8,538         367        8,905        7,929           89
2          8,387         364        8,751        7,333           84
1977         1          7,784         331        8,115        6,566           81
2          7,545         321        7,866        3,003           38
1978         1          2,069          88        2,157          949           44
2         6,756          287        7,043           33           05
Total            76,698       3,897       83,595        63,619           76 /b
/a Including penalties.
/b 83% if the second season of 1978 is not computed.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Ten Largest Loans Outstanding as of 12/31/78
(M$ million)
Arrears
Type       Original       Amount                   as a % of
Name of Company       of loan      facility   outstanding    Arrears   outstanding
Syarikat Gula N.S.   Sugar           20.00        25.10          9.40         37.5
Syarikat Maris        Sugar           2.80         2.30          2.30        100.0
Minyak Berjaya        Oil palm,       3.80         4.60          0.80         17.4
machinery
& bldgs.
Gula Padang           Sugar           5.00         5.30          0.70         13.2
Persatian Peladang   Oil palm         8.30         7.60          0.10          1.3
Sabah Cattle Farming Livestock        4.60         2.20          0.60         40.9
Ariffin Haji Ismail  Rubber           2.60         2.80            -             -
Lembasa Kejora        Oil palm        4.00         4.10            -             -
Sy. Ubi Johor         Tapioca         2.00         1.20          0.02          1.7
Intan Woodcrafts      Furniture       1.70         2.00          0.08          4.0
Total                           54.80        57.20         14.00        24.5



0    0    0    0    C          0      0    0    0    0   0    0    0    0           e    0   0    0    0   0    C   0    0
-*0                                                                                     .                                          4
                   91                1
4.- -                   I  -,              41  444  -   0   In
                                                                                74
*0                  0 .4 40 0 09   Eq4-.1Eqq                                                                                 I'  I
0    0    04  Eq   0!                      *'
44,                                                                                                                                             m    0
  ..0  I   0 C0                                              1.41                                      41
44               EqO                  01       4-      -'                       Eq   WI                   .4                 '0
444                                                                       .4
-1
0                   Eq      10  -.    I   10  Ct   04.4.                 410            04    I   411
.4o144                                                                     4; 4;4I                            
Eq                           .4
-.   0    0         0       0    0    I   0.   0    0    4-   0           Eq  40  Eq  -0  Eq  It'                                      
Hf           .    ..         4              .       .   .                         .
* It               -.   Or-a             I

4. 4-lOne  .44
-    00                                                     I
                                       0 Eq 0 0 . 0940                                                            0                                              11
1S1*1            0                              0                 0    .4   0         Eq   Eq         0    .4   -    0    0         .4  4..  101                        1144        -
.                  4;                                                                                         1.1 -   -   CI  10   0  IC   4.  4-.  Eq   0  0    10   0    Eq I  flU
I                                           0       0    .0  01   0   0           0              0    0.   0    0    0   .0   0   0
*0                                                                                                                                                                                    0
144     44..4       tIlt                                            .4      CI  40  Eq   0   0         I   IC   0         0    10   0    Eq  .4  .4                        I                41144
1    .; EqEq00.l'                                                                                                                                        I
I                            CII    Eq  *1                        -.             Eq            EqEqOEqEq                                                           o   4-.
-.11          .                                                                                                        4-'  Eq                                         4.4    10.4   0    0   CII  0
I       ---4         EqEq    0-.4         I   .0             .0   0   0    .4  14-I  0    0    ...fEq       .4  44    .4   44,1                           --1
[1                                0                                                      *                                                         4,4   It                   4   .  .j.
.3                         4*41   Eq  .0   0   Eq
CI   Eq   0    10  10         .      0    .4   0    0   Eq         -    0          .1  10   -    .4  Eq  In  10   ollnt .4   -  -  .    .  I  *  0   .3                              #4
Eq  Eq   0    .4  .4          0    -         .0        .4        -44   0   -   0    In             0           44
Eq             Eq  .4         14421          0         ..'  .4  Eq   0    -.e.41Ii                 It          It                              14
Eq   Eq                     -    It     43   It
a.                                                                                                                                                                 It   .0      0   4'.
-4                                                                                                                                                                 0    It     .3
C
4-                               Eq  '0  Eq   0   Eq  Eq  Eq   0              Eq   0    '0  4-.   0   Eq                       0    4'.    It
.4 . ...4
CI                             4Eq111Eq10Eq                    0   '0   0           .0  Eq  -4   0    01   0                        It          -4   410
I)          0-                                                                                                                                                     44                   I
4-4.401                     1111  44
II           0-.                                                                                                                                                                        I
.0        Z.                                                                                                                                                      It                         InEq    S   0    Eq   0
.3.4                                                                                                                                                  *    It    .3  It          0.0          0    Eq   0
.0  In  Eq          -I      .4   0    Eq   0   Eq  .4  Eq  10             Eq  It.   0    0  10  Eq          0    0       .4  .4    .4   *.          0.4         .4
00               .. -4 '0  0  Eq    -4    0  Eq  0  0  0  0  10  0                                        0  '0  ICEqr.aEqOn.3    C    0  4444
It .4  Eq  4*  Eq             0.Eq1140104Eq...  44                                 0.  Eq...4EqEq  .44    .jOj                                       4,    104-I                 0  II
00               01                            III    Eq              -4   -                         0    Eq  -.4  IC  Eq   C            utlo'I      44   0       .4  44
0                                                                                          Eq                             Eq  Eq         MI          0    1444    0    11
.2    It                                                                                                                                        I     10      It   It   It                              (I
It                                                                                                                                                 It
Eq                                                             EqEqEqEqEqEqEq4-1Eq   I
H    II   HI        H       H   H   H    H   14  44   H    H              H    H    H    H    H    H    H    H I  *41    It  '.40    It
o    o   09         -.     c    It   o    0   4'-   0   0    Eq         .4  Eq   0    4.  10   0    Eq  .41  Eq I    .4    11  44                                         It
*         *j                                    4         4    .                                              I    I     Coo
0    0    ..4l      Eq           10   0    0   40         0    10        4.4  444   0    0    0    0   0    Eq I  Eq I    (101444                                           .0
4.   0    0,        0                 0    0              0    4'.        0    41   0    0    0   10   0   0    01          .4440
110 It 44
0                        4-.            .4  Eq  Eq                        OCIt        It
Eq  Eq              .44406                    CI-.                                       1111440'  41                                      4'
010    4-I          0    01   0    Eq  IC  Eq                       4J ItS
0 -0           0    4-  -,                      CIt.It   It                                      Cl
'   24.222                                                   044010 4'                                         It
 W".                                                               EqEqInJO]
Eq  10   141                                                         1I44It   -.4                                    .4
It                                       *   I-.                         tIt    C   0
It                  It  '-I                     It                        0              It                                 00.4   1.4            It   4)1.                 0.
It                  It  It                      It                       It             11                                4411.4      It           1    4j   144111
It                  It  44                     .0   It                                  10        11                      00    0    It      0       .4116141114           .0
C                                .11           II   0                     CM             14       11                      44'11It    C       0       0.4440                 It
ItO                        .4  It       0      0    411o.4s    ,            .0
011                                                                          * 0   .4 U                              -1 4-I.1*4 (I . 00.4.0000   0
011                                         I                                           I      11.3400             'IJ             .91
11        CI   11             44                It        It        .4   .4         11  .4    It                                 It*        044-4                 -       ..
.4  44         11        C         -.4.4   It  It  .0   0    It  It           I-I  .4  11  .0   0            It  It         04    .40,10
4'   0    -0  44  .4          44  44  4444           44   0   C    40  10            I  44  '.  It   0   -4  4.0  10             I-I    4-44.1441.4
.4   It   0    4,0  44                          II   C    .4   11    11  .3             414  .4    14   11   .4   44   .3
0   0.   1'   0   0           0   .0  .444Y  .1  4..  4.-  .4  Eq  40               CI  -C  .2  44.  .2  .0   0    0                                 0
.1   ]     I'



- 53 -                                 ANNEX 1
Table 9
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Summarized Balance Sheets, 1974-1978
(M$ million)
1974       1975       1976       1977       1978
Assets
Loans
Settlement due from LCC's          1.60       3.20       5.40       7.20      11.54
Short-term loans                   5.30       8.20       8.60       8.90      16.00
Medium-term loans                  5.30       8.00       9.70      12.40      27.21
Long-term loans                   30.00      33.00      48.30      58.70     75.11
Subtotal                      42.20      52.40      72.00      87.20    129.86
Less:  Provision for debts           0.30       0.30       0.60       0.70       0.60
Loans Outstanding             41.90      52.10      71.40      86.50    12q.26
Investments
Short-term deposits              25.50    106.40    164.20    289.00    418.20
Government securities                 -          -       2.00       1.20      11.20
Other companies                       -       2.80       2.80       2.30       3.40
Accrued Interest                   0.20       1.20       2.40       5.60      12.90
Subtotal                      25.70    110.40    171.40    298.10    445.80
Investment in Subsidiaries
Equity                             9.80       9.80       9.80      11.40      11.40
Loans                              8.80      21.00      26.50      26.80      19.10
Subtotal                      18.60      30.80      36.30      38.20      30.50
Bridging Finance & Others               -       5.10          -       1.40       0.10
Net Fixed Assets                     2.20       4.20       5.00      13.70      24.45
Others                               3.30       3.40       2.60       3.70       4.99
Total Assets                  91.70    206.00    286.70    441.60    635.10
Liabilities
Savings & Giro deposits              1.00       1.80       2.90       5.30       5.30
Time deposits                       28.00    140.20    219.80    369.80    506.30
Others                               1.20       0.70       0.70       3.60       4.60
Subtotal                      30.20    142.70    223.40    378.70    516.20
Loans from Government               50.00      20.00      20.00      20.00      50.90
Agricultural time deposits              -       2.00       2.00       1.80      27.80
Total Liabilities             80.20    164.70    245.40    400.50    594.00
Equity
Paid up capital                     10.00      40.00      40.00      40.00      40.00
Reserves                             1.50      1.30       1.30       1.10       1.10
Subtotal                      11.50      41.30      41.30      41.10      41.10
Total Liabilities & Equity  91.70    206.00    286.70    441.60    635.10



- 54 -                                ANNEX 1
Table 10
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Weighted Average Cost of Capital as of 12/31/78
(M$ million)
Amount      Interest
outstanding   rate (%)    Amount    Terms of loans
Long-Term Funds
Equity - paid up              40.0
1974-SMP /a                 10.0           4.0        0.40    15 years, with 5
years grace on
principal and
interest
1975-SMP /a                 10.0           4.0        0.40    10 years, interest
payable beginning
11/78.
1977-TMP /b                 30.0           4.0           -    15 years, with 5
years grace on
principal and
interest
Subtotal                  90.0           0.9/d     0.80
Commercial Bank Deposits    26.7             6.5        1.74    One year deposits.
Armed Forces Fund              1.1           8.0        0.09    Paid in semiannual
installments. Loan
ends 4/15/80.
Subtotal                 117.8           2.2/d      2.63
Short-Term Funds
Savings Deposits             506.3           7.0       35.66
Total                     624.1           6.1/d    38.29
/a Second Malaysia Plan.
/b Third Malaysia Plan.
/c Under Bank Negara's scheme.
/d Weighted average rate.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 11
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Summarized Income Statement, 1974-1978
(M$ Million)
1974              1975               1976              1977               1978
Amount   %/a    Amount   %/a    Amount   %7/a    Amount    %/a    Amouint   %/a
Income
Loan income /b                        2.6   61.9        5.5   59.1         7.1   38.6         7.5   26.2       10.0   24.1
Investment income /b                  0.7   16.6        3.4   36.7        10.8   58.7       19.0   66.4        30.o   72.3
Income from subsidiary /b             0.6   14.3        0.2     2.1        0.3     1.7        1.9     6.6       1.1     2.6
Rental income /.                        -       -          -       -       0.1     0.5        0.1     0.4       0.1     0.2
Others                                0.3     7.2       0.2     2.1        0.1     0.5       0.1      0.4       0.4     0.8
Total Income                     4.2  100.0         9.3  100.0       18.4  100.0        28.6  100.0       41.5  100.0
Expenses
Interest on deposits                 0.4      9.5       5.0   53.8        13.0   70.6       21.4    74.8       32.4   78.1
Interest on term borrowing              -       -       0.1     1.0        0.2     1.1       0.5      1.7       1.6     3.8
Subtotal                         0.4    9.5         5.1   54.8       13.2   71.7        21.9   76.5       34.0   81.9
Personnel                             1.8   42.9        2.5   26.9         3.1   16.8        4.0    14.0        4.6    11.1
Employee's contribution               0.2    4.8        0.3     3.2        0.3     1.6       0.4      1.4       0.5     1.2
Transport & travelling                0.1     2.4       0.2     2.2        0.2    1.1        0. 3    1.0        0.4    n.9
Office service & supplies             0.5    11.9       0.8    8.5         1.0    5.4         1.3     4.5       1.5     3-7
Padl credit services                 0.1      2.4         -       -        0.1     0.5          -       -         -       -
Professional & tech. services         0.1     2.4         -        -         -       -       0.1      0.3       0.1    0.2
Insurance                               -       -         -        -         -       -       0.1      0.3       0.1    0.2
Other expenses                          -       -                                               -       -         - 
Depreciation                          0.1     2.4       0.1     1.1        0.1    0.5        0.2      0.6       0.3    0.8
Provision for doubtful debts            -       -       0.1     1.1        0.3     1.6       0.1     0.3          -       -
Subtotal                         2.9   69.1        4.0   43.0         5.1   27.5         6.4   22.4        7.5   18.1
Total Expenses                   3.3   78.6         9.1   97.8       18.3   99.5        28.3   98.9       41.5  100.0
Net Income                            0.9   21.4        0.2     2.2        0.1    0.5        0.2      0.1         -       -
/a % of total income.
T On accured basis.
/c On cash basis.



ANNEX 1
- 56 -                              Table 12
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Allocation of Administrative Expenses to Banking and Credit
1977 and 1978
(M$'000)
1977                                1978
Credit    Banking    Total         Credit      Banking    Total
Salaries and
related ex-
penses          3,345        836       4,181        3,804         951      4,756
Other admin-
istrative
cost            1,644        411       2,055        2,184         545      2,729
Total         4,989      1,247       6,236        5,988       1,496      7,485
Average assets  79,600a  294,800/b  364,150/c   108,530/a  388,050/b  538,350/c
Operating cost
as % of
assets            6.3%        0.4%       1.7%         5.5%        0.4%        1.4%
/a Average loan portfolio.
/b Average time deposits.
/c Average total assets.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Table 13
MALAYS IA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Wei_hted Average Yield on Investments as of 12/31/78
Investment         Mlaturity               Yields             Amount
(H$)                                   (%)                 (M$)
Deposits    9,000         <   1 month                3.00                 270
55,859            1 month                6.64               3,709
29,900            2 months               7.39               2,210
70,800            3 months               7.75               5,487
5,500            4 months               7.75                 426
10,300            5 months               7.70                 793
8,500            6 months               7.65                 650
4,000            8 months               7.60                 304
54,355           12 months               7.41               4,027
1,000           15 months              8.00                   80
147,876           24 months               8.14              12,037
3,000           36 months               8.50                 255
Subtotal  400,090                                    7.56              30,248
Goverment
Securities    515             1 month                6.15                  32
10,725           36 months               6.25                 670
Subtotal   11,230                                    6.25                 702
Bank Bills 16,100        <   1 month                 6.20                 998
1,942           2 months               7.50                  146
Subtotal   18,042                                    6.33               1,144
Total     429,362                                    7.47              32,094



- 58 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 14
14ALAYS IA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Weighted Average Cost of Deposits as of 12/31/78
(M$'000)
Term              Amount in deposit    Interest rate    Amount of interest
(M$)                                     (M$)
Less than 1 month             44,650               5.25               2,344
1 month            44,378              6.39                2,836
1-1/2 months                500              6.63                   33
2 months            40,450               7.02               2,840
2-1/2 months              2,000              7.38                  148
3 months           100,870               7.38               7,444
4 months             7,700               7.23                 557
5 months            13,250               7.49                 992
5-1/2 months              2,000              7.50                  150
6 months            13,800               6.95                 959
12 months            44,315               7.27               3,221
24 months           146,422               7.59              11,113
36 months             2,000               8.00                 160
Subtotal                462,335               7.10               32,797
Others                        43,964               6.50               2,858
Total                   506,299               7.04               35,655
/a Head office accounts only.



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Table 15
MALAYS IA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN M1ALAYSIA
Provisional Projected Income Statement (Assuming Present Status)
1979-1988
(M$ million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Income
Income on loans /a                  9.64   12.87   15.77   18.93   23.50   26.17   29.82   33.59   37.63   42.04
Interest on M I 's /b              32.07   32.90   28.69   25.25   21.34   16.88   12.10    7.42    2.17   (3.21)
Incomes from other banking /c    0.59    1.19    2.34    3.98    5.67    7.37    9.06   10.76   12.45   14.15
Interest from subsidiaries /d          -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -
Income from real estate             0.07    1.91    2.20    2.50    2.80    2.80    2.83    3.20    3.20    3.20
Other income                        0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40
Total Income                    42.77   49.27   49.40   51.06   53.71   53.62   54.21   55.37   55.85   56.61
Expenses
Interest on deposits /e            34.77   34.93   35.12   35.32   35.45   35.61   35.74   35.87   36.00   36.13
Interest on long-term loans         2.02    1.35    0.74    0.70    1.86    4.35    4.20    4.06    3.91    3.33
Subtotal                        36.79   36.28   35.86   36.02   37.31   39.96   39.94   39.93   39.91   39.46
Commission to LCC's                 0.29    0.32    0.36    0.39    0.42    0.46    0.51    0.56    0.62    0.68
Salaries & related expenses /f   5.95    7.85   10.56   12.37   13.37   15.61   16.39   17.21   18.07   18.98
Transportation & travelling /R   0.42    0.55    0.74    0.87    0.94    1.09    1.15    1.20    1.26    1.33
Office serice & supplies |h         1.96    2.59    3.48    4.08    4.41    5.15    5.41    5.68    5.96    6.26
Professional & tech. services/i  0.13    0.14    0.15    0.17    0.19    0.21    0.23    0.25    0.28    0.31
Insurance                           0.09    0.10    0.11    0.12    0.13    0.14    0.15    0.17    0.17    0.21
Other expenses Li                   0.48    1.21    1.36    1.54    1.75    1.79    1.84    2.18    2.21    2.31
Depreciation                        0.27    0.58    0.68    0.71    0.77    0.77    0.71    0.75    0.78    0.81
Pravision for bad debt /k           0.20    2.83    8.11    4.63    6.76    7.90    8.87   10.17   11.47   12.78
Subtotal                         9.79   16.17   25.55   24.88   28.74   33.12   35.26   38.17   40.82   43.67
Total Expenses                  46.58   52.45   61.41   60.90   66.05   73.08   75.20   78.10   80.73   83.13
Net Income                      (3.81)  (3.18) (12.01)  (9.84) (12.34) (19.46) (20.99) (22.73) (24,88) (26.52)
/a  On cash basis at 95% of due interest, less adjustment of $3.0 million for sugar loans ($25.0 million)
and other short-term loans ($7.5 million).
/b  At 7.25% of previous year's ending balances.
/c  Net effective 11% on leasing and 9% on short-term lending.
/d  Assumed that no income will be due on investments in subsidiaries.
/e  At 6.75% (time deposit) and 6.5% (savings deposit) of previous year's ending balances.
/f  As per BPM's projections of increasing staff strength from 556 to approx. 1,590 by 1984.
Salaries are projected to increase at 5% p.a. thereafter.
/z  7% of salaries.
/h  33% of salaries.
/i  Increase of 10% p.a.
.L  Increase of approximately 15% p.a.
/k  Footnote /b.  Table 16.



ANNEX I
- 60 -                                          Table 16
IIALAYS LA
RURAL CREDIT PROJiC'T
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSfA
Proevisional Projerced Cash Flow (Assuming Presenit Statusj
1979-1988
(M$ million)
1979    1980    198!    1982    1983    t984    1985    1986    1987    1988
TOTAL SOURCES
Net income                        (3.81)  (3.18) (12.01)  (9.84) (12.34) (19.46) (20.99) (22.73) (24.88)           -
Add:  Depreciation                 0.27    0.58    0.68    0.71    0.77    0.77    0.71    0.75    0.78            -
Provision for bad debt      0.20    2.83    8.11    4.63    6.76    7.90    8.87   10.17   11.47            -
Subtotal                (3.34)  (0.23)  (3.22)  (4.S0)  (4.31) (10.79) (11.41) (11.81) (12.63)           -
Equity la                         10.00       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Long-term loans /a                65.80       -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Subtotal                75.80      _         -        -       -                -        -       -        -
Credit Collections /b
Short-term loans               31.64   46.13   53.26   60.05   67.67   74.69   82.?7   90.49   99.54            -
Hledium-term loans               8.06   12.78   17.43    9.94   23.39   28.18   32.96   37.45   41.45            -
Long-tcrn loans                 10.94   12.02   16.09   18.00   23.65   23.61   32.63   36.80   41.01           -
Subtotal                50.64   70.93   86.78   98.79  114.71  131.48  147.86  164. 74  182.00           -
Banking
Net increase in
Giro & savings                8.70    4.00    6.00    5.00    4.00    4.00    8.00    2.00    2.00            -
Net increase ini time
deposits /C                       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Collections on leasing Ld       0.33    3.63   10.33   20.00   30.00   40.00   50.00   60.00   70.00
Others                           6.00    6.50    7.00    7.50    8.00    8.50    9.00    9.50   10.00
Total Sources          138.13   85.29  106.89  126.79  151.90  173.19  203.45  224.43  251.37            -
TOTAL UtSES
Loan Disbursements
Short-tarm  loans /e           54.50   61.33   68.26   77.03   84.77   93.25  102.57  112.83  124.11
tiedtim-term loans              18.43   20.17   24.36   29.32   35.30   39.47   43.48   47.94   52.92
Long-term loans                21.76   25.13   29.51   34.22   39.97   42.92   47.07   51.64   56.69
Subtotal                94.69  106.63  122.13  140.57  160.04  175.64  193.12  212.41  233.72
Banking
Net income in cash /f           (0.33)   0.60    1.00    0.80    0.70    0.70    1.50    3.30    0.30
Disbursenment on leasing         1.00   10.00   20.00   30.00   40.00   50.00   60.00   70.00   80.00           -
Others                           6.00    6.50    7.00    7.50    8.00    8.50    9.00    9.50   10.00            -
Capital Expendituires              6.08    9.51    3.24    0.96    1.14    0.73    0.64    D.68    0.72            -
Loan Repayments                   19.35   10.15    0.90    0.94    3.47    3.62    3.76    3.91    4.06            -
Total Uses                   126.79  143.39  154.27  180.77  213.35  239.19  268.02  296.80  328.80
Net resources                  11.34  (58.10) (47.38) (53.98) (61.45) (66.00) (64.57) (72.37) (77.43)
Beginninag 1D11 /R           442.40  453.74  395.64  348.26  294.28  232.83  166.83  102.26   29.89
Ending tWIT L                453.74  395.64  348.26  294.28  232.83  166.83  102.26   2989   (47.54)
_La  Asawuing that of the $75.77 million committed under the Third llalaysia Plan, $10 milltion will be provided as
equity (to fully pay up the authorized capital of BPtl) 3nri the balance, an loans at 4% p.a.  Furtther, BP.I
will pay interest and principal of previous loans as per its present conmitments.
/b  Collections have been assumed as follows:  Short-term  loans:  75.; in che first year, 101 in second year
and 5% in the third year.   l tatmu- and long-term  loans:  95% of tCe aolunt due in each yezor.  Provision for
bad and doubtful debts has been nade on the balance in the fourthi year.
/c  As a result of Bank Negara's directive allowing Ilerchant danks to accept deposits  se exlect
BPII's money riarket operations to contract.  No growth in ttme deposits is foreseen.
/d  Assumed to be 100% on principal amouint.  A nominal 0.5' risk has been proviLded for in projecting the income.
/e  Assumned to  rouw approxiimatly 10-15S  in the first f ive years, a.id aL 10, thereafter.
/f  Projected at 10% of Savings and Girt, deposits.
g  As per present practice, assumed that any net surplus/deficit will b e n.ljust.?d ajaioist -loiney flrket
Tnjeestsnents (III ).



- 61 -                                              ANNEX 1
Table 17
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Provisional Summarized Balance Sheets (Assuming Present 9tatus)
1979-1988
(M$ million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    198/    1985    1986    1Q87    1988
Assets
Loans
Short-term loans                50.40   65.60   80.60   97.58  114.68  133.24  153.54   175.88   200.45            -
Medium-term loans               37.58   44.97   51.90   61.28   73.19   84.48   95.00   105-49   116.96             -
Long-term loans                 85.93   99.04  112.46  127.88  144.20  158.51  172.95   187.79   203.47             -
Subtotal                    173.91  209.61  244.96  286.74  332.07  376.23  421.49   469.16   520.88          _
Less provision for bad debts   0.80    3.63   11.74   16.37   23.13   31.03   39.90    50.07    61.54               -
Subtotal                    173.11  205.98  233.22  270.37  308.94  345.20  381-59   419-09   459-34            -
Money market investments         453.74  395.64  348.26  294.28  232.83  166.83  102.26    29.80   (47.54)            -
Cash                               2.50    3.10    4.10    4.90    5.60    6.30    7.80         8.10      8.40        -
Investments in subsidiaries       30.50   30.50   30.50   30.50   30.50   30.50   30.50    30-50    30.50             -
Leasing                            0.67    7.04   16.71   26.71   36.71   46.71   56.71    66.71    76.71             -
Net fixed assets                  30.27   39.20   41.76   42.01   42.38   42.34   42.27    42.20    42.14             -
Others                             5.65    5.65    5.65    5.65    5.65    5.65    5.65         5.65      5.65        -
Total Assets               696.44  687.11  680.20  674.42  662.61  643.53  626.78   602.14   575.20            _
Liabilities
Deposits
Savings & Giro deposits         14.00   18.00   24.00   29.00   33.00   37.00   45.00    47.00    49.00             -
Time deposits                  506.30  506.30  506.30  506.30  506.30  506.30  906.3n   506.30   506.30             -
Others                           4.60    4.60    4.60    4.60    4.60    4.60    4.60         4.60      4.60        -
Subtotal                   524.90  528.90  534.90  539.90  543.90  547.90  555.90   557.90   589.90             -
Loan from Government             114.96  114.10  113.20  112.26  108.79  105.17  101.41    97.50    93.44             -
Agricultural time deposits         9.29        -       -        -        -       -        -        -         -        -
Total Liabilities           649.15  643.00  648.10  652.16  652.69  653.07  657.31   655.4n   653.34             -
Equity
Paid up                           50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00    50.00    50-00             -
Reserves                          (2.71)  (5.89) (17.90) (27.74) (40.08) (59.54) (80.53) (103.26) (128.14)            -
Subtotal                    47.29   44.11   32.10   22.26    9.92   (9.54) (30.50)  (53.26)  (78.14)            -
Total Liabilities & Equity   696.44  687.11  680.20  674.42  662.61  643.53  625.78   602.14   575.20             _



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Table 18
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Provisional Projected Income Statement (Assuming Financial Restructuring)
1979-1988
(M$ million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Income
Interest on loans /a                9.64   12.87   15.77   18.93   23.50   26.17   29.82   33.59   37.63   42.04
Interest on MMI's lb               32.07   29.29   29.29   29.29   29.29   29.29   29.29   29.29   29.29   29.29
Income from banking /c              0.59    1.19    2.34    3.98    5.67    7.37    9.06   10.76   12.45   14.15
Income from subsidiary /d               -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Income from real estate             0.07    1.91    2.20    2.50    2.80    2.80    2.83    3.20    3.20    3.20
Other income /e                     0.40    1.20    1.20    2.40    4.01    9.25   13.12   16.16   19.14   20.78
Total Income                    42.77   46.46   50.80   57.10   65.27   74.88   84.12   93.00  101.71  109.49
Expenses
Interest on deposits /f            34.77   28.02   28.21   28.41   28.54   28.70   28.83   28.96   29.09   29.22
Interest on long-term loans         2.02    1.39    0.80    2.00    3.61    8.85   12.72   15.76   18.74   20.38
Subtotal                        36.79   29.41   29.01   30.41   32.15   37.55   41.55   44.72   47.83   49.60
Commission to LCC's                 0.29    0.32    0.36    0.39    0.42    0.46    0.51    0.56    0.62    0.68
Salaries & related expenses /h   5.95    7.85   10.56   12.37   13.37   15.61   16.39   17.21   18.07   18.98
Transportation & travelling 7T   0.42    0.55    0.74    0.87    0.94    1.09    1.15    1.20    1.26    1.33
Office services & supplies /j    1.96    2.59    3.48    4.08    4.41    5.15    5.41    5.68    5.96    6.26
Professional & tech. services /k 0.13    0.14    0.15    0.17    0.19    0.21    0.23    0.25    0.28    0.31
Insurance                           0.09    0.10    0.11    0.12    0.13    0.14    0.15    0.17    0.17    0.21
Other expenses /1                   0.48    1.21    1.36    1.54    1.75    1.79    1.84    2.18    2.21    2.31
Depreciation                        0.27    0.58    0.68    0.71    0.77    0.71    0.71    0.75    0.78    0.81
Provision for bad debt /m           0.20    2.83    8.11    4.63    6.76    7.90    8.87   10.17   11.47   12.78
Subtotal                         9.79   16.17   25.55   24.88   28.74   32.12   35.26   38.17   40.82   43.67
Total Expenses                  46.58   45.58   54.56   55.29   60.89   69.67   76.81   82.89   88.65   93.27
Net income                      (3.81)   0.88   (3.76)   1.81    4.38    5.21    7.31   10.11   13.06   16.22
/a  On cash basis at 95% of due interest, less adjustment of $3.0 million for sugar loans ($25.0 million)
and other short-term loans ($7.5 million).
/b  At 7.25% on Money Market investments ($404 million) from 1980 onwards.
7T  Net effective 11% on leasing and 9% on short-term lending.
/d  Assumed that no income will be due on investments in subsidiaries.
7h  Almost entirely comprises the provision of government subsidy.
If  At 6.75% on deposits ($404 million) from 1980 onwards, and at 6.5% on savings deposits.
/g  Assumed that "all Government of Malaysia funds will be lent to BPM at the usual terms of 4% p.a. and with
5 years grace. IBRD funds will be onlent to BPM at the current Bank rate of 9.25% p.a. with repayment
beginning one year after disbursement."
/h  As per BPM's projections of increasing staff strength from 560 to approx. 1,590 by 1984.
Salaries are projected to increase at 5% p.a. thereafter.
/i  7% of salaries.
f   33% of salaries.
/k  Increase of 10% p.a.
/1  Increase of approximately 15% p.a.
7h  Footnote /c,  Table 19.



-63 -                                                 ANNEX 1
Table 19
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Provisional Projected Cash Flow (Assuming Financial Restructuring)
1979-1988
(M$ million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
TOTAL SOURCES
Net income                         (3.81)   0.88   (3.76)   1.81    4.38    4.21    7.31   10.11   13.06   16.22
Add:  Depreciation                  0.27    0.58    0.68    0.71    0.77    0.77    0.71    0.75    0.78    0.81
Provision for bad debt       0.20    2.83    8.11    4.63    6.76    7.90    8.87   10.17   11.47   12.78
Subtotal                  (3.34)   4.29    5.03    7.15   11.91   12.88   16.89   21.03   25.31   29.81
Equity /a                          10.00        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Long-term loans /a                 65.80        -        -        -        -        -
Subtotal                  75.80        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Credit Collections /b
Short-term loans                 31.64   46.13   53.26   60.05    7.67   74.69   82.27   90.49   99.54  109.50
Medium-term loans                 8.06   12.78   17.43   19.94   23.39   28.18   32.96   37.45   41.45   45.71
Long-term loans                  10.94   12.02   16.09   18.00   23.65   28.61   32.63   36.80   41.01   45.28
Subtotal                  50.64   70.93   86.78   98.79  114.71  131.48  147.86  164.74  182.00  200.49
Banking
Net increase in
Giro & savings                  8.70    4.00    6.00    5.00    4.00    4.00    8.00    2.00    2.00    2.00
Collections on leasing /d         0.33    3.63   10.33   20.00   30.00   40.00   50.00   60.00   70.00   80.00
Net increase in time
deposits /c                 (102.30)        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -
Others                            6.00    6.50    7.00    7.50    8.00    8.50    9.00    9.50   10.00   10.50
Total Sources             35.83   89.35  115.14  138.44  168.62  196.86  231.75  257.27  289.31  322.80
TOTAL USES
Loan Disbursements
Short-term loans /e              54.50   61.33   68.26   77.03   84.77   93.25  102.57  112.83  124.11  136.52
Medium-term loans                18.43   20.17   24.36   29.32   35.30   39.47   43.48   47.94   52.92   58.43
Long-term loans                  21.76   25.13   29.51   34.22   39.97   42.92   47.07   51.64   56.69   62.24
Subtotal                  94.69  106.63  122.13  140.57  160.04  175.64  193.12  212.41  233.72  257.19
Banking
Disbursement on leasing           1.00   10.00   20.00   30.00   40.00   50.00   60.00   70.00   80.00   90.00
Net increase in hMI's /d        (38.40)       -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -
Net increase in cash If          (0.33)   0.60    1.00    0.80    0.70    0.70    1.50    0.30    0.30    0.30
Others                            6.00    6.50    7.00    7.50    8.00    8.50    9.00    9.50   10.00   10.50
Capital expenditures                6.08    9.51    3.24    0.96    1.14    0.73    0.64    0.68    0.72    0.76
Loan repayments /j                 18.51    9.29         -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -
Total Uses /h             87.55  142.53  153.37  179.83  209.88  235.57  264.26  292.89  324.74  358.75
Net resources                  (51.72) (53.18) (38.23) (41.39) (41.26) (38.71) (32.51) (35.62) (35.42) (35.95)
/a  Assuming that of the $75.77 million committed under the Third Malaysia Plan, $10 million will be provided as
equity (to fully pay up the authorized capital of BPM) and the balance, at 4% interest, with grace
period of 5 years on principal and interest. It is further assumed that all existing and future
Government debt will be on similar terms.
lb  Collection have been assumed to be as follows.  Short-term loans:  75% in first year, 10% in second year
and 5% in the third year. Medium- and long-term loans: 95% of the amount due in each year. Provision for
bad and doubtful debts has been made on the balance in the fourth year.
/c  Assumed at 100% on principal amount.  A nominal 0.5% risk has been provided for in projecting the income.
7_  As a result of Bank Negara-s directive allowing Merchant Banks to accept deposits we expect
BPH's money market operations to contract. Therefore, in order to balance deposits and money market
investments, no growth in time deposits is foreseen.
/e  Assumed to grow approximatly 10-15% in the first five years and at 10% thereafter.
/f  Projected at 10% of savings and Giro deposits.
E Due to the narrow spread between lending rates (9%) and cost of funds deposited with Bank Pertanian pursuant
to the requirement for commercial participation in agriculture (6.5%), it is assumed that BPM will use some
of the funds from the Government to repay these liabilities of $25.0 million.
/h  Resource gap to be funded.



ANNEX 1
Table 20
- 64 -
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Provisional Summarized Balance Sheets (Assuming Financial Restructuring)
1979-1988
(M$ million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987              1988
Assets
Loans
Short-term loans                 50.40   65.60   80.60   97.58  114.68  133.24  153.54   175.88   200.45   227.42
Medium-term loans                37.58   44.97   51.90   61.28   73.19   84.48   95.00   105.49   116.96   129.68
Long-term loans                  85.93   99.04  112.46  127.88  144.20  158.51  172.95   187.79   203.47   220.43
Subtotal                        173.91  209.61  244.96  286.74  332.07  376.23  421.49   469.16   520.88   577.58
Less provision for bad debts   0.80    3.63   11.74   16.37   23.13   31.03   39.90    50.07    61.54    74.32
Subtotal                        173.11  205.98  233.22  270.37  308.94  345.20  381.59   419.09   459.34   503.26
Money Market Investments          404.00  404.00  404.00  404.00  404.00  404.00  404.00   404.00   404.00   404.00
Cash                                2.50    3.10    4.10    4.90    5.60    6.30    7.80            8.10     8.40       8.70
Investments in Subsidiaries        30.50   30.50   30.50   30.50   30.50   30.50   30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50
Leasing                             0.67    7.04   16.71   26.71   36.71   46.71   56.71    66.71    76.71    86.71
Net fixed assets                   30.27   39.20   41.76   42.01   42.38   42.34   42.27    42.20    42.14    42.09
Others                              5.65    5.65    5.65    5.65    5.65    5.65    5.65            5.65      5.65      5.65
Total Assets                    646.70  695.47  735.94  784.14  833.78  880.70  928.52   976.25 1,026.74 1,080 91
Liabilities
Deposits
Savings & Giro deposits          14.00   18.00   24.00   29.00   33.00   37.00   45.00    47.00    49.00    51.00
Time deposits                   404.00  404.00  404.00  404.00  404.00  404.00  404.00   404.00   404.00   404.00
Others                            4.60    4.60    4.60    4.60    4.60    4.60    4.60           4.60      4.60      4.60
Subtotal                        422.60  426.60  432.60  437.60  441.60  445.60  453.60   455.60   457.60   459.60
Loan from Government              167.52  220.70  258.93  300.32  341.58  380.29  412.80   448.42   483.85   519.88
Agricultural Time Deposits          9.29        -        -        -        -        -        -         -         -         -
Total Liabilities               599.41  647.30  691.53  737.92  783.18  825.89  866.40   904.02   941.45   979.40
Equity
Paid up capital                    50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00    50.00    50.00    50.00
Reserves                           (2.71)  (1.83)  (5.59)  (3.78)   0.60    4.81   12.12    22.23    35.29    51.51
Subtotal                         47.29   48.17   44.41   46.22   50.60   54.81   62.12    72.23    85.29   101.51
Total Liabilities & Equity   646.70  695.47  735.94  784.14  833.78  880.70  928.52   976.25 1,026.74 1,080.91



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Technical Assistance: Draft Terms of Reference
A. Management and Planning
1.        An internationally recognized financial expert with banking
experience in the areas of cost control, operations evaluation, and planning
is required for an initial contract of two years. He would report directly
to the Managing Director. His objectives would be to improve BPM's financial
management and control, initiate the process of corporate planning, and
assist in drafting the first plans. His work can be divided into four
broadly related tasks:
(a) the review and reform of the accounting and internal reporting
system. The present paper load on branches is high, and
timeliness in reporting is poor. Reports should be designed
to highlight operating difficulties and problems which
require management attention or intervention. This should
permit greater freedom in delegating responsibilities to staff
outside H.Q. In considering the design of the accounting and
reporting system the expert should allow for the eventual
introduction of electronic data processing.
(b) an analysis and estimates of the profitability of BPM's
various activities, branches, and loan schemes, followed
by recommendations on how to improve earnings and reduce
losses;
(c) assistance in designing and initiating a profit-oriented
budgetary process which would provide a forecast of expected
revenues in relation to expense categories, and which_would
allow BPM management to undertake a quarterly review of
performance leading to any necessary corrective action.
(d) preparation of the annual operating and financial plans which
are to be submitted to Treasury, and the drawing up of a longer
term (four or five year) corporate plan which would set out the
extent to which, and the means whereby BPM is capable of meeting
its broad institutional goals.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
It is understood that these tasks are beyond the capacity of a single expert
to undertake alone in the time available, and that the assistance of
qualified staff of BPM is a necessary condition of success in meeting the
objective.
B. Credit and Saving Programs
2.         An agricultural development banking expert is required for a period
of two years to work in the Research and Planning Department. He would
report directly to the Head of the Department. His objectives would be to
devise systems for deposit mobilization in the rural sector, at reasonable
cost compared with other sources of non-government funds, and to provide
analysis showing how to redesign BPM's credit delivery system in order to
reduce the transaction costs to the smallholder and the bank. His work can
be divided into four broadly related tasks.
(a) analysis of rural financial markets in Malaysia including
sources and demands for loanable funds and behavior of farm
households and lenders in the market;
(b) analysis of the effectiveness of different savings
instruments (including "pygmy" savings schemes
and other contractual savings devices) in
tapping fresh sources of rural liquidity, and their
cost and benefits to BPM;
(c) analysis of the factors influencing the riskiness of
BPM's lending to smallholders, leading to the development
of simplified technical and financial loan criteria to be
used in loan decisions;
(d) development of an evaluation and monitoring system which
will provide branch managers with an effective check
on their loan decisions, and will provide BPM management
with a measure of the impact of the Bank-s lending.
C. Training Programs
3.         An expert in the design and management of executive training
programs is required for a period of one year to work in the Training
Department. He would report to the Head of the Department. His objectives
would be to ensure that training courses were tailored to the institution's
needs and were designed to lead to improved staff performance of their
duties (rather than simply an increase in staff knowledge). He would advise
on the right balance of lectures, study, simulation, practise and the
applicability of the latest techniques. He would institute a system of
follow-up and feedback which would assist the Training Department to adapt
its coursework to changing conditions.



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
D. Other Assistance
4.        The project would permit up to two further man-years of technical
assistance to be provided for purposes which are not yet defined. During
appraisal a number of possible uses became apparent including: extension
of the financial expert beyond two years; the possible need for an expert on
heat engineering to advise on tobacco curing-barn technology; an aquaculture
specialist; a cocoa production and processing expert; an expert on the
construction of boats, using power tools. These examples merely indicate
the range of assistance BPM may have to call upon in order to maintain the
momentum of its new lending, and take advantage of profitable opportunities
as they arise.



MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Estimated Schedule of Expenditure, Claims, and Disbursements
($ millions)
Bank financial years:                      FY81                   FY82                           FY83                            FY84                           FY85
quarters:                          3      4        1       2      3       4       1       2      3       4        1      2       3      4        1       2       3       4
A. BPM Loan Portfolio Growth /a
Short term                       1.62   1.69    1.83   1.90   1.83   1.91    2.07   2.15   1.85   1.93    2.01   2.09   -             -        -       -
Medium term                      0.75   0.78    0.85   0.88   1.01   1.06    1.05   1.19   1.29   1.34    1.41   1.47   -              -       -       -
Long term                        1.45   1.51    1.64   1.70   1.67   1.74    1.88   1.95   1.76   1.84    1.91   1.99   -                 -    -          -
Total Loan Growth             3.82   3.98    4.32   4.48   4.51   4.71    5.10   5.29   4.90   5.11    5.33   5.55   -             -        -       -_
Quarterly claims /b              -      -        1.89   1.97   2.13   2.22    2.23   2.33   2.53   2.61    2.42   2.53   2.64   2.76    -              -
IBRD disbursement /c             -      -        -       1.89   1.97   2.13    2.22   2.23   2.33   2.53    2.61   2.42   2.53   2.64    2.76   -             -        -                        a
B. Institutional Growth
Branch expansion                 0.82   0.82    0.82   0.82   0.91   0.91    0.91   0.91   1.00   1.00    1.00   1.00   -             -        -       -
Training & technical
assistance                     0.05   0.05    0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05    0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05    0.05   0.05   -             -        -       -
Quarterly claims /d              -       -       -       -      -       0.52    -       -       -      0.58    -       -       -       0.64    -       -
IBRD disbursement /c             -      -        -      -       -       -       0.52   -       -       -        0.58   -       -       -       0.64   -
Total IBRD Disbursement
Per quarter                    -      -        -      1.89   1.97   2.13    2.74   2.23   2.33   2.53    3.19   2.42   2.53   2.64    3.40   -              -
Per annum (FY)                 -      -        -      -       -       5.99    -       -      -       9.83    -       -       -      10.78    -       -      -        3.40
Cumulative per annun (FY)    -        -        -      -       -       5.99    -  -           -      15.82    -       -       -     26.60    -        -      -       30.00
/a  IBRD will disburse against BPM disbursements in eligible categories, for a period of 36 months from date
of effectiveness, here assumed to be January 1, 1981.  Table 20, Annex I forecasts loan portfolio growth.
/b Assumed that claims are made in the second quarter following BPM disbursement. Claim is 2 of
expenditure as specified in para. 3.14 of Appraisal Report.
/c Actual disbursement is assumed to occur in quarter following quarter of claim.
/d Assumed that claims are made in 2nd quarter of year following year of disbursement.



MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT
BANK PERTANIAN MALAYSIA
Farm Model Summary
Farm Model                        1                2                3               4                  5
Smallholding Models
Re/new planting                New               New              Re               New                Re
Major crop                      Rubber           Oil palm         Coconut          Cocoa              Pepper
Intercrop                        -                -               Cocoa             -                 -
Final re/new planted
areas (ac)                     8                6               2/out of 6)       6                 6
Intercropped area                -                -               4                 -                 -
Phasing of re/new planting    2 years            2 years          2 years          2 years            2 years
Expected yield at full          1,500 lbs/    16-14,000 lbs       (2,900 lbs cop- 2,750 lbs           14,700 lbs
development                     ac             FFB/ac           ra/ac; 1,450 lb wet beans           green berries
wet beans/ac    /ac                 /ac
With or without gov't grant   without            without          with             with               with
Financial rate of return        25               29               infinite         41                 22
Economic rate of return /a    15                 25               29               27                 19
Estate Models
Re/new planting                New               New              New              New
Monocrop                        Rubber           Oil palm         Mawa coconut    Cocoa
Final planted area (ha)         10,000           10,000           10,000           10,000
Phasing of planting             5 years          5 years          5 years          5 years
Expected yield at full          2,600            20-18 tons       5 tons copra/   1,450 kg            -
development                     kg/ha            FFB/ha           ha              dry beans/ha    -
Financial rate of return/a    15                 20               19               20
Economic rate of return/a       16               23               21               22
/a Over 25 years, except for pepper (15 years).



- 70 -
ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MAJOR CROP STATISTICS, TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS AND PRICE ASSUMPTIONS
Major Commodity Price Assumptions and Derivation
(in constant 1980 M$)
Financial Prices /a                                                  Economic Prices /a
1980                  1985                  1990                    1980                 1985                 1980
Rubber
US$/nt RSS I (CIF New York)                        1,442                 1,504                 1,647
MC/lb RSS 1 (CIF New York)                           140                   146                   160
Mc/lb RSS I (FOB Malaysian ports)                    133                   139                   153                      133                139                  153
-  Transport and handling                              3                     3                     3                        3                  3                    3
-  Replanting and research cess                      5.5                   5.5                   5.5                        -                  -                    -
-  Export tax                                       34.8                  37.8                  44.8                       -                   -                    -
Ex-factory price for RSS 1                          89.7                  92.7                  99.7                     130                 136                  150
-  Processing                                          9                     9                     9                       9                   9                    9
Farm-gate price for AD rubber (MCilb)
(20% a, 60% B and 20% scrap)                          70                    73                    79                     105                 110                  123
Pal  Oil/Kernels                                 PO          K          PO         K         PO          K            PO         K        PO         K        PO          K
US$/mt (CIF Europe)                            605         455       610         465       587         451
MC/lb (CIF New York)                            59          44        60          45        57          44
Mi/lb (FOB Malaysian ports)                     55        38.5        56        39.5        53        38.5           55       38.5      56        39.5       53        38.5
-  Transport and handling                        2           3         2           3         2           3            2          3       2           3        2           3
-  Export tax                                   14           -        15           -        13           -           -           -       -           -        -           -
Ex-mill prices                                  39       35.5         39       36.5         38       35.5           53        35.5      54       36.5        51       35.5
-  Processing                                        1.7                   1.7                   1.7                     1.7                 1.7                  1.7
Farm-gate price fur FF3 (MIb)_ /Lb                   7.5                   7.6                   7.3                    10.3                10.6                  q.9
Copra
US$/mt Grade I (CIF Europe)                          585                   659                   609
MC/lb Grade I (CIF Europe)                            57                    64                    59
5% discount for lower grade (CIF Europe)              54                    61                    56
MI/lb (FOB Malaysian ports)                           46                    53                    48                      46                  53                   48
-  Transport and handling                              2                     2                     2                       2                   2                    2
Farm-gate price for coPra (MC/lb)                     44                    51                    46                      44                  51                   46
Farm-gate price for husked nut (Mc/unit)              16                    18                    17                      16                  18                   17
Cocoa
US$/mt (CIF Europe)                               3,523                 2,649                 1,804
MC/lb (CIF Europe)                                   343                   258                   176
3% discount for lower quality (CIF Europe)          333                   250                   171
Mi/lb (FOB Malaysian ports)                          317                   234                   155                     317                 234                  155
-  Transport and handling                              2                     2                     2                       2                   2                    2
Farm-gate price for dry beans (Mi/lb)                315                  232                    153                     315                 232                  153
-  Fermenting, drying and transport                   20                    20                    20                      20                  20                  20
Farm-gate price for wet beans (MC/lb) /c             118                    85                    53                     118                  85                   53
White Pepper
MC/lb (FOB Malaysian ports)                                                220                                                               220
-  Transport and handling                                                   11                                                                11
-  Export tax                                                               31                                                                31
Exporter purchase price                                                    178                                                               178
-  Storage and miscellaneous                                                17                                                                17
Farm-Kate price for white pepper (MC/lb) /d                                161                                                               161
Farm-gate price for black pepper (MC/lb) Id                                117                                                               117
/a  Prices taken in account in the financial and economic analyses are the averages between 1985 and 1990 figures.
/b Assuming extraction rates of 20% oil and 4% kernel.
Ic  Conversion of wet to dry beans at 2.5:1.
/d  Conversion of green berries to white pepper at 3.7:1; to black pepper 3.03:1.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
MALAYSIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Prolect Data File
.
1. Major Crop Statistics, Technical Specifications and Price
Assumptions
2. Credit Projects for Estates - Farm Models
3. Credit Projects for Smallholders - Farm Models
B. Draft Preparation Report No. 25/79 MAL. 8 by BPM and FAOCP
C. IBRD Staff Preparation Paper
1. Review of BPM (Financial)
2. BPM Staffing and Training
3. Agriculture Equipment Financing
4. Agricultural Credit
5. Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA)
D. Study of Institutional Aspects of Rural Credit in Malaysia with
special Reference to states of Kedah, Perlis and Kelantan; M. B.
Shivamagga, September 1978.
E. Bank Pertanian Documents
1. Agricultural Credit System in Malaysia
2. BPM/RISDA Project
3. Mixed Farm Credits
4. Bank Pertanian Malaysia (History)
5. Loan Policy Statements
(i) General Terms and Conditions



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Pase 2
(ii)  Loan Making Procedures
(iii) General Loan Policy
(iv)  Intermediate Term Loan Policy
(v) Lending Criteria for Small Estates
(vi)  Lending Criteria for Agribusiness
(vii) Procedures for Loan Servicing and Supervision
(viii) Loans for Land Purchase/Improvement
(ix)  Tobacco Marketing Production Inputs
(x)  Policy on Financing Livestock
6. Loan Application Report (Specimen)
7. Loan Investigation Report (Specimen)
8. Loan Appraisal Report (Specimen)
F.  Miscellaneous
1. The Unorganized Money Market
2. BPM Indicative Financial Ratios
3. BPM, Size Distribution of Loans



