Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7736-GT 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 7, 2009
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7736-GT 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 7, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
GUATEMALA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions 
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred and fifty million 
dollars ($350,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Page  3
2
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal one hundred and fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000) shall be 
converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of 
such amount in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of 
the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
The Loan may serve to finance all budgetary expenditures of the Borrower in 
support of the Program, except for Excluded Expenditures, as set forth in this 
Agreement. To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed under 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the 
opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives 
of the Program. 
 
Page  5
4
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 30 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) 
months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on January 28, 2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
 
Centro Cívico, Zona 1 
 
Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A. 
 
Telephone:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
(502) 22485002  
 
(502) 22485005 
(502) 22485080  
 
(502) 22485084 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Page  6
5
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By
 /s/ José Francisco Villagrán de León 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has taken actions to maintain fiscal space for priority spending, 
including the implementation of, 
inter alia
:
(a) a direct tax on business income to 
offset the decline in tax collections due to the expiration of the IETAAP in the 
year 2008; (b) mandatory use of the software application for income tax 
withholding to enhance income tax collection; and (c) cross-checks between 
value-added tax declarations and income tax submissions to reduce tax evasion.   
 
2. 
The Borrower has completed the supervision of at least three risk profiles 
 
(out of 
the following four: liquidity, credit, operational, and market) under the Banking 
Sup
erintendency’s risk-based consolidated supervision manual, in Financial 
Groups controlling at least half of the total bank assets of the domestic financial 
system. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has carried out the standardization of its Central Bank debt 
instruments and the establishment of regular issuance to facilitate the market 
development of an interest rate yield curve, through the implementation of: (a) 
coordinated, weekly auctions of securities by its Central Bank and the MOF with 
broad participation of the financial sector, non-financial private sector and public 
sector; and (b) electronic issuance of 7-day securities.
 
4. 
The Congress of the Republic has approved legislation (
Decreto
 51-2007, the 
Ley 
de
 Garantías Mobiliarias
,
and reforms under 
Decreto
 No. 46-2008) to provide 
firms, particularly micro, small and medium enterprises, with the possibility of 
using their movable assets as collateral while keeping possession of the assets. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has implemented the following mechanisms to enhance the control 
and transparency of the majority of public trust funds: (a) monthly reporting of 
financial accounts to the MOF and its General Auditor's office; and (b) annual 
external audits of public trust funds. 
 
6. 
In order to facilitate public access to information and transparency: (a) an access 
to information and transparency law has been approved by Congress of the 
Republic and is effective; and (b) the MOF has implemented the SAIP. 
 
Page  8
7
7. 
The Borrower: (a) has issued and is implementing Executive Decree 394-2008 
for the internal reorganization of functions and responsibilities in the MOF to 
fully absorb, operate and upgrade the financial management and procurement 
framework systems SIAF and 
Guatecompras
;
and (b) has included provisions 
and technical indicators in its 2010 budget guidelines in order to start 
implementation of a results-informed budget system in central government 
entities. 
 
8. 
The Borrower: (a) is implementing a transparent monitoring and evaluation 
system in the municipalities benefiting from 
Mi Familia PROGRESA
 that allows 
for the verification of conditions for cash transfers being met by families in the 
program; and (b) has received an external evaluation of risks under 
Mi Familia 
PROGRESA
,
related to design, instruments, conditionality, information flows, 
beneficiaries’ feedback and coordination with other institutions. 
 
9. 
The Borrower, through SAT, has implemented a customs management system 
(SAQB’E) on cargo management and on the release and clearance of 
imported/exported goods and merchandise in transit, in at least three major 
customs entry points, managing over 30 percent of the Borrower’s total customs 
traffic.  
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in various portions of the Single Tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars
)
Single Tranche 
 
349,125,000 
 
Front-end Fee 
 
875,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
350,000,000 
Page  9
8
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2018 
 
through and including May 15, 2035 
 
2.78% 
Ending November 15, 2035 
 
2.70% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
Page  11
10 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
Page  12
11 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Banking Superintendency” means the Borrower’s supreme body 
(
Superintendencia de Bancos
)
responsible for the regulation and supervision of 
banks, which body was established and is operating pursuant to the provisions of 
the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 18-2002 (
Ley de
 Supervisión Financiera
)
effective on June 1, 2002. 
 
“Congress of the Republic” or 
Congreso de la
 República
 
means the Borrower’s 
legislative branch of government. 
 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  13
12 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
“Executive Decree 394-2008” means the Borrower’s 
Acuerdo Gubernativo 394-2008
 of 
December 23, 2008 which contains the Organic Regulations of the Internal 
Ministry of Public Finance (
Reglamento Orgánico Interno del Ministerio de 
Finanzas Públicas
). 
 
“Financial Group” means a grouping of financial entities registered and regulated by the 
Banking Superintendency pursuant to the legal and financial criteria provided in 
Article 27 of the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 19-2002 (
Ley de Bancos y 
Grupos Financieros
)
effective June 1, 2002. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
“
Guatecompras
”
means 
Sistema de 
Información de Contrataciones y Adquisiciones del 
Estado
,
the transparent web-based government procurement system of the 
Borrower, pursuant to Decree 57-92 of the Congress of the Republic (
Ley de 
Contrataciones del Estado
). 
 
1. 
“IETAAP” means 
Impuesto Extraordinario y Temporal en Apoyo a los Acuerdos 
de Paz
,
the Borrower’s Extraordinary and Temporary Tax in Support of the 
Peace Accords instituted by the Borrower through its Decree 19-04 as published 
in the Official Gazette on June 29, 2004. 
 
2. “
Mi Familia PROGRESA
”
means the Borrower’s conditional cash transfer 
program to support low income families, as defined in the Borrower’s 
Governmental Accord (
Acuerdo Gubernativo
)
No. 117-2008 of April 16, 2008. 
Page  14
13 
3. 
“MOF” means 
Ministerio de
 Finanzas Públicas
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Public Finance. 
 
4. 
“Official Gazette” or “
Diario de
 Centroamérica
”
means the Borrower’s official 
newspaper. 
 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to 
in the letter dated June 15, 2009 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
“SAIP” means 
Sistema de Acceso a
 Información Pública
,
the Borrower’s System of 
Access to Public Information, as established pursuant to the provisions of the 
Law of Access to Public Information, issued by means of the Borrower’s Decree 
No. 57-2008, dated October 23, 2008. 
 
“SAT” means the Borrower’s agency responsible for the supervision of tax 
administration established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the 
Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 1-98, dated January 12, 1998 (
Ley Orgánica 
de la Superintendencia de Administración Tributaria
)
and published in the 
Official Gazette on February 13, 1998. 
 
“SIAF” means 
Sistema Integrado de
 Administración Financiera
,
the Borrower's 
Integrated Financial Management System
 established through the Borrower’s 
Governmental Accord (
Acuerdo Gubernativo
)
No. 217-95 of May 17, 1995, 
which has the objective of improving the efficiency, accountability and 
transparency of financial management of the Borrower's public sector.  
 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
Page  15
14 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Page  16
15 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.” 
 
(e) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (d) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
