Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4804 
Operation Name 
Guatemala Development Policy Loan II 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (34%);General finance sector 
(33%);Law and justice (33%) 
Project ID 
P114373 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA 
Government of Guatemala 
Guatemala 
 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Guatemala 
 
Date PID Prepared 
May 18, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 18, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 30, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The proposed loan supports key development policy priorities of the Guatemala Country Partnership 
Strategy FY09-12, which was presented to the World Bank Executive Board for discussion on 
September 23, 2008. The medium term strategic objectives of the CPS include: (i) enhancing 
development fundamentals through macroeconomic stability, fiscal reform, and governance and 
transparency; (ii) expanding opportunities for vulnerable groups; and (iii) promoting sustainable growth 
and productivity. The proposed operation is part of the Bank’s ongoing support, through the 
Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional DPL series, for reforms aimed at maintaining fiscal space for 
priority spending while improving governance and transparency, strengthening the effectiveness of the 
CCT program Mi Familia Progresa, and promoting wider access to finance and deeper secondary 
financial markets.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed program development objectives (PDOs) are
:
·
Maintain fiscal space for priority spending through tax policy and tax administration 
reforms.  
·
Strengthen the effectiveness of the Mi Familia Progresa CCT program through enhanced 
monitoring and evaluation of program design and outcomes. 
·
Improve governance and transparency of public financial management and expenditures. 
·
Improve access to finance and deepen financial markets through reforms to the financial 
legal framework and public debt management. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Page  2
The proposed operation builds on the progress made under the First Fiscal and Institutional DPL and 
supports the country’s strategic program to strengthen Guatemala’s capacity to grow and provide 
adequate resources to reduce poverty and inequality.  Significant progress on critical reforms is being 
made, including strengthening tax administration, promoting financial market stability, improving 
monitoring and evaluation of the country’s new conditional cash transfer program, modernizing customs 
processes, as well as enhancing governance and transparency.  In response to the global crisis and 
economic slowdown, the Government has prioritized its development plan on near-term steps to mitigate 
the impact of global crisis, including focusing efforts on expanding its new conditional cash transfer 
program and creating a task force to monitor the economic situation and take policy actions, as needed, 
to respond to the crisis. The Government has adjusted its reform program to reflect additional actions 
and priorities, including reforms to increase access to finance and address financial sector stability, 
while other actions anticipated by the Government prior to the crisis, particularly implementation of 
measures to boost tax collections, have been delayed.    
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The specific policies supported by this DPL operation are not likely to entail negative effects on the 
environment, forests or other natural resources.  However, to the extent that measures supported by the 
DPL program are successful, over time, in attracting new investment (including in infrastructure), there 
will be a need to strengthen Guatemala’s national institutional capacity to identify and address 
environmental policy and regulatory issues. With this in mind, a Country Environmental Analysis 
(CEA) was undertaken in 2005-2006 (Box 5) and discussed with the Government. The CEA provides 
cost effective recommendations for closing gaps in institutional capacity for environmental regulation. 
As a first step, the CEA conclusions and recommendations helped to prepare the ground to obtain 
approval of the National Environmental Policy (Política de Conservación, Protección y Mejoramiento 
del Ambiente y los Recursos Naturales).  The Government is continuing to update its National 
Environmental Policy and expects to undertake a Strategic Environmental Analysis with Bank support. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
350 
Borrower Ministry 
of 
Finance, 
Guatemala 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
350 
 Total 
350 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: David Michael Gould 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-9621 
Fax: (202) 614-1236 
Email: 
dgould@worldbank.org
Contact: Rashmi Shankar 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4601 
Fax: (202) 522-2119 
Email: 
rshankar@worldbank.org
