Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24842-GH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 43.5 MILLION (US$ 57.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND DEVELOPMENT GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.5 MILLION (US$ 32.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT II
JANUARY 13, 2003
Human Development II
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 4, 2002)
Currency Unit = Cedis
Cedis I = US$0.0001194
US$1 = Cedis 8375.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB               African Development Bank
BMC              Budget Management Centre
CHAG              Christian Health Association of Ghana
CMA              Commun Management Arrangements
DANIDA           Danish International Development Assistance
DflD             Department for International Development (UK)
DHS               Demographic and Health Survey
EIA              Environmental Impact Assessment
EU               European Union
GAC              Ghana Aids Commission
GHS               Ghana Health Service
GOG              Government of Ghana
GPRS             Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
GTZ               Gesellschaft fr Technische Zusammenarbeit
HAART             Highly Active Anti-Retroviral Treatment
EIPC             Highly Indebted Poor Country initiative
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IGF               Internaliy Cenerated Funds
IMR              Infant mortality rate
JICA              Japan International Cooperation Agency
MOH              Ministry of Elealth
MOU              Memorandum of Understanding
MTEF             Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MTHS              Medium Term Health Strategy
NDF               Nordic Deveiopment Fund
NPP               New Patriotic Party
POW               Health Sector Programme of Work
PUFMARP           Public Sector Financial Management Reform Programme
SWAp        Sector Wide Approach
TB                Tuberculosis
U5MR              Under five year mortality rate
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA             United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF            United Nations Childrens Fund
USAID             United Stazes Agency for International Development
WHO               World Health Organisation
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:     Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager/Director:    Alexandre Abrantes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Franqois Decaillet



GHANA
HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT II
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                   2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              15
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                             16
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   17
3. Benefits and target population                                                  19
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   19
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                      22
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies      23
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             26
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                27
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     27
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                       27
2. Financial                                                                       29
3. Technical                                                                       30
4. Institutional                                                                   30
5. Environmental                                                                   32
6. Social                                                                          34
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              35
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                 35
2. Critical risks                                                                  36



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                 37
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                       37
2. Other                                                                          38
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                     39
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                    39
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                     40
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                               44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                    55
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary      56
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  62
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                               63
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                     68
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                77
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                              78
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                             81
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                       83
Annex 11: Health Sector Situation                                                    85
Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation - Supervision Arrangements                      104
Annex 13: Memorandum of Understanding                                              107
MAP(S)
IBRD 28665



GHANA
HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT II
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH3
Date: January 13, 2003                            Team Leader: Francois Decaillet
Sector Manager: Alexandre V. Abrantes            Sector(s): Health (100%)
Country Director: Mats Karlsson                  Theme(s): Health system performance (P), Fighting
Project ID: P073649                              communicable diseases (S), Child health (S), Population
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  and reproductive health (S), Public expenditure, financial
management and procurement (S)
Project Fiinancingpata., -'              <.    '-..
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit   [X] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [X] Other: Combined IDA Grant for Poorest Country
and IDA Credit
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$ 89.6 m (including a US$ 32.3 m Grant and US$ 57.3 Credit)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing,,Plan(US$rn)K . Source   ; rI'g                    oca   u-,-Freign7           Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                           613.00          25.00        638.00
IDA                                                           20.25          37.05        57.30
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                            75.00           0.00         75.00
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST COUNTRY                                24.35           7.95          32.30
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                               180.40         130.00        310.40
Total:                                                       913.00        200.00        1113.00
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: PO BOX MB-44, ACCRA
Contact Person: Dr. Kwaku AFRIYIE
Tel: (233) 21 665323          Fax: (233) 21 663810          Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
_FY       r2                      200420 200005 I    2  006"  .
Annual      0.00     22.50      20.00     20.00      27.50
Cumulative     0.00     22.50      42.50      62.50     90.00
Project Implementation period: 03/2003-12/2006
Expected effectiveness date: 03/01/2003 Expected closing date: 06/30/2007
CCS P55 P A  -K2=



IL lProject developmeent objective: (see Annex 1)
The vision and strategies for the health sector development were defined in 1996 in a
Medium-Term Health Strategy (MTHS). These orientations were then translated into the 1997-2001,
Program of Work (POW-I) of the Ministry of Health (MOE), which has been implemented under strong
partnership with both internal and external partners. Particularly important was the relationship between
the MOH and a core group of development partners (DFID, DANIDA, the World Bank, the Netherlands,
the European Union, and the Nordic Development Fund) who, according to Sector Wide Approach
(SWAP), increasingly pooled their resources into a common Health Fund managed by the MOH in
parallel with budgetary resources and used common management arrangements (CMA-I). Since 1998,
comprehensive sector performance reviews have been conducted annually and discussed at the district,
regional and national levels with the full participation of development partners. From these reviews, the
1997-2001 POW appears to have produced satisfactory results. The Health Sector Program Support
Project, a US$32.5 mrillion IDA financed contribution to the implementation of the first POW was closed
on June 30, 2002, the planned date, fully disbursed and with satisfactory ratings.
The MTHS' orientations remain valid. However, the vision and the reform agenda have been
further refined during the preparation of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) aiming at wealth
creation, improved governance and reduction of income and regional inequalities. This agenda has been
translated into sectorial strategies and programs in the GPRS. in 2001, in line with the poverty reduction
strategy, the Ministry of Health-MOE developed a second 5 Year Program of Work (2002-2006 POW
or POW-i) through a highly consultative process with development partners, other sectors, decentralized
government authorities, the civil society and the private sector. This second POW was appraised in
October 2001, and endorsed as an appropriate policy and management framework for the entire sector.
The overall objective of the 2002-2006 MOH Program of Work (POW-II) is to improve the
health status of the population while reducing the geographical, socioeconomic and gender inequalities in
health outcomes.
The IDA financed Health Sector Program Support Financing-DE (HSPSF-1) will support the
Govemment of Ghana efforts towards the above mentioned objective and the Ministry of Health in
implementing its 2002-2006 Program of Work (POW-il), through financing a portion of the combined
Government and external assistance budgets for policy development and operational program activities,
including on-going service delivery and new initiatives.
2. Key performance Andicators: (see Annex 1)
The health status of the population will continue to be monitored periodically through national
surveys and studies, such as the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS, the next one will be in 2033).
As for the period of the first POW, a list of 25 sector-wide performance indicators has been
agreed upon to enable all stakeholders to assess progress towards meeting the agreed objectives and
targets and allow for an annual assessment of strategies defined under the POW. The indicators are
grouped under 5 categories: access, quality, efficiency, partnership and financing. Table I below
presents some of these indicators (see the entire list in annex 12). To better measure progress towards
reducing the inequalities, it has been agreed that MOH will -to all the extent possible - obtain and
present these indicators including a break down by regions, socioeconomic group and gender. A survey
is being undertaken to provide baseline data for indicators that do not yet have them.
- 2 -



Table 1: Sector-Wide Indicators and Targets for Program lImpact
(2002 - 2006)
POW Sector-Wide Indicators          MOR    Baseline MOH Target
_______________      ______________j     2001           2006
Health Status Infant Mortality rate per 1000 live births  56.7 (1998)        50
Under Five Mortality rater per 1000 (1 b)  108 (1998)          95
Access        Outpatient visit per capita                    0.49            0.6
Hospital adrnission rate                       34.9             40
Quality       Bed Occupancy rate                             65%            80%
Efficiency    Under five malaria case fatality rate          22%            15%
% HIV sero prevalence among adults              3%          2.60%
% tuberculosis cure rate                       45%            63%
Number of Guines worm cases                   7,402              0
% Supervised deliveries                     50.40%            60%
EPI Coverage
DPT3          76.30%           95%
Measles         82.40%           95%
% recurrent budget used for private
Partnership   sector                                        1.30%            2%
NGOs, CSOs and other MDAs...
Financing     % GOG budget spent on Health                 6.90             1 00°
% GOG recurrent budget spent on health           10           130
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R 20815-GH   Date of latest CAS discussion: March 30, 2000
The development strategy of the Government of Ghana (GOG) is to eliminate hard core poverty.
To support that goal, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) aims at supporting the GOG to
increase economic growth, redefine the role of the State, improve governance, and implement the GOG's
poverty reduction strategy more effectively on the ground. The CAS specifically identifies the need to
continue to provide sector-wide support to the Health sector as a strategy to assist in redefining the role
of the State and enable it to more efficiently provide public goods and services and ensure an equitable
distribution of benefits.
The December 2000 election gave victory to the New Patriotic Party (NPP) and the new
government took office in January 2001. In March 2001, the Government adopted the HIPC initiative, a
key component of which is the formulation of a Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) for the period
2002-2004. The GPRS has been developed and the new government has initiated a process to ensure that
sector ministries analyze and integrate measures to reduce poverty in their programs. The target (among
others) is to reduce the incidence of poverty to 30% and the incidence of extreme poverty to 20% by the
year 2004 (GPRS 2001).
The Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) and the POW-II make a strong emphasis on (i)
-3-



promoting equity of health outcomes with a special focus on diseases that affect the poor most; (ii)
enhancing efficiency in service delivery; (iii) ensuring sustainable financial arrangements that protect the
poor; and, (iv) strengthening links with health related sectors of society.
For FY03, Ghana was allocated grants of SDR 24.5million (US$ 32.3 million equivalent), and
this entire amount will be applied toward the financing for this project. Under the Ghana CAS, six
projects are proposed in FY03, and this particular project was selected for grant financing because of (1)
its central prominence in the Bank's Ghana program, (2) the project's strong development impacts, and
(3) the Government's particular interest in grant financing in the health sector given that this financing
would cover a program of work and services in addition to physical assets. The government feels that
popular support for the program would be strengthened by the grant financing.
*  Health sector in the Ghana CAS. Given the rising health status of the population, there is a
momentum for change and improvement and for extending these gains more widely. Acting on this
impetus will allow the Government, particularly with grant financing, to extend these services further
than could be accomplished through a credit, alone.
Strong development impacts. This particular operation is essential because it is an instrument to
mobilize broad donor support, through the SWAP approach, around central health sector themes.
This focused attention will, synergistically, lead to greater development impacts and is likely to have
strong demonstration effects for the future.
Government preferences. The Government has expressed particular interest in grant financing
for the health sector because they see it as a means to draw greater and broader support for these
programs.
2. Main secaor issues and Government strategy:
bealh seCtoir siguaoiov ( see apsex No. 21 )
During the past decade, the health status of the population has significantly improved, reflecting
progress achieved in several directions, including the delivery of essential health services. This section
summarizes improvement in health outcomes, health services and key sector issues, which are discussed
in greater detail in Annex 11.
From 1988 to 1998, life expectancy at birth has continued to increase while infant and under
five mortality rates have been significantly reduced (by 25%). Fertility has declined markedly in every
age group with a nearly two child drop in the total fertility rate over the last decade. Ghana compares
generally very favorably with other African countries.
Trble 2: Trends m healRlh status Lndlcators
_          _     1593   _____
In1ant Moraflty RV               77     66.5    57
arieer Vve WOrstRy MeRt      _      _    lie    107
Crudo [lDrth Rate                67             32
Crude death Rato      '_7                12_f5_  M:
Lie gEnaeciancy at [Erth 255                    57
otal FralgW Rate             _           5.5    (.6
-4 -



Figure 1: Trends in IMR A Comparison
Trends in IMR. Acorrparlson
100
80                        .
60
8 0 - ^ z2.;
96.-Ghana
40E-ul                             Mobrocco
20                                 S-Africa
0
1982  1987  1992   1997
-5-



Mp_ireF 2: Iends li 14I - Wesn Afrnra
140
120
t 20 - ' _ \ ~~~~ -- - Be<lSnin
100 
a =~ -a. ~W-*s { Burtdna
C-)  80 -                                            Cote dWo9re
-                                                   - Ghana
60 
NigeriaL
40                       -                      Togo
20   -    -
02  -
1982     1987    1992     1997
If trends recorded during the first part of the 90's have been maintained, Ghana would be
moderately off track or almost on track with the Millennium Development Goals.
- 6 -



lFigure 3: Trend in [MR and U5MR towards Millenium Goals
Trend 5n MSR and U5NIR
160
140 -
120
100  :      -
80  - .  INR
-U  .U5MR
60
40 -
29
0
1986 1991 1996 2001 2006 2011 2016 2021
Considering the low level of total spending on health (about US$20), Ghana has achieved a great
deal. Progress towards achieving the health targets has, however, been less than anticipated and the
spread of the gain in terms of improved health has been relatively inequitable. Outstanding challenges
still confronting the health sector include the high maternal mortality rates, the persistence of
communicable diseases like malaria and tuberculosis, the newly emerging non communicable diseases
and relatively high levels of death and injury from road traffic accidents. With a sero-prevalence at 3%,
HIV/AIDS poses a major threat to health and development.
During the period of the first POW (1997-2001):
Geographical access to static health services has continued to improve. In addition to
improvements in physical accessibility to health facilities, the resource shift to the district and
sub-district levels and a wider implementation of the exemption scheme contributed to a 25% increase
(average) utilization of publicly financed services. The highest increase in utilization (95%) was
observed in the Northern (and poorer) belt of the country.
*      The coverage of key essential public health services has also been significantly improved.
Immunization against measles increased from 57% in 1997 to 82.4% in 2001 while DPT3 rose from 51%
in 1996 to about 80% in 2001. The TT2 immunization rate went up from 37% in 1996 to 73% in 2001.
Antenatal coverage increased from 84% in 1996 to 98% in 2001. Supervised deliveries went from 38%
in 1996 to 52% in 2000 and post natal coverage (1 visit) increased from 33% in 1996 to 50% in 2001.
Substantial progress has also been made in integrating service delivery and some important
innovations have been introduced to improve the quality of care. Regional offices for quality assurance
have been established throughout the country, introducing mortality audits and promoting more rational
prescription of drugs. User satisfaction surveys have also been introduced along with efforts to engage
-7 -



citizens and communities with the planning, financing and management of their health services.
Imman sector lissues:
The 2001 Sector Review highlighted a number of constraints, strategic and operational
challenges that need to be addressed in order to consolidate the gains and further improve health
outcomes and the health sector performance.
Five main issues deserve particular attention in the context of the 2002-2006 Program of Work:
(a) the persistence of deep inequalities in health; (b) the chronic under funding of the health sector; (c)
the intense brain drain and unequal distribution of staff; (d) the untapped potential contribution from
private providers; and, (e) the potential devastating impact of HIV/AIDS on the health sector, the
economy and the society which makes it the single most important issue in the years to come.
a)     Persisftence of deep imequ&Mnes mn hedn:
As routine and survey data were pointing to unacceptable differences in health outcomes, at the
request of the MOH and its partners, a "Profile of health inequalities in Ghana" was prepared in 2000 to
define the extent of health inequalities in terms of health outcomes, gender, urban-rural location, regions,
incomes, health resource allocation and health expenditure.
The Profile showed that, in Ghana, the largest differential in health outcomes is by region of
residence with the least differential being by gender. However, it was also observed that between 1988
and 1998, urban-rural differentials have been worse whereas regional differentials have remained, on the
whole, largely constant.
The northern section of the country is significantly disadvantaged on multiple health dimensions.
The Under Five mortality rate there is 2.5 times higher than in the Greater Accra Region. Whereas the
rate in Greater Accra Region is 62, it is 171 in the Northern Region, 156 in the Upper West Region and
155 in the Upper East Region. As a result of both higher public and private investments, health facility
distribution also favors most affluent regions. The Greater Accra Region with about 12% of the national
population account for 42% of total public doctors and 18% of hospital beds. In contrast the northern
regions with 20% of the population account for 6% of total doctors and 14% of the total hospital beds.
A disproportionate share of the funds is allocated to urban areas. It has also been estimated that
the richest households benefit about three times more from government expenditures on health than the
poorest (Canagarajah S and Xiao, WB, 2000). More positively, it has been observed that, on the whole,
women benefit more than men from government expenditure on health.
II) Under funding of the health senIor.
The percentage of GDP allocated to public health care expenditures from government revenue
through MOH decreased to reach a low level of barely 1% in the mid 90's. With the start of the POW I,
these allocations were increased and total public health care expenditures (incl. donor funding) amounted
to around 2.3% of GDP over the period. The MOB recurrent expenditures as a percentage of total GOG
recurrent expenditures (narrow, excl. interest) have decreased from 11.1% in 1991 to around 7% during
the period 1994-96, but increased again to reach 11.4% in 2000 and 11.0% in 2C01. During the same
period, the share of the total government expenditures (all items) spent in the health sector decreased
from 8.2% in 1991 to a level of around 4.6% in 1994-97 with a slight upward trend that continued ending
- 8-



at 6.9% in 2001.
In spite of recent GOG efforts to increase its allocations to the health sector and mainly due to
macro-economic constraints, total spending on health remains very low, estimated at about US$20 per
capita, out of which approximately US$14 (70%) are private expenditures. Excluding foreign finance,
public health spending reached US$4.2 in 2000, which is below the level of US$6 available at the
beginning of the 1990's and far below the level of US$10 per capita in 1978. The per capita public health
spending was estimated at about US$6.4 in 2000. This included external finance.
Continued progress will require a substantial increase in financing. In the current economic
context, user fees and out-of-pocket payments cannot be increased much further without exacerbating
inequalities. The GOG is committed to not increasing out of limits private payments, to progressively
abolish the "Cash and Carry" which is a front payment system and to replace it with health insurance and
community based prepayment schemes. Therefore, the required additional resources will have to come
firstly from an increase in GOG budget allocations to the health sector (including inter alia, funds freed
by the HIPC debt relief initiative) and secondly from an increase in donor contributions to the MOH
POW.
Even under the most optirnistic scenario, it is however unlikely that the level of total public
spending on health ( including donor funding) can be made to increase over US$12 per capita in 2006.
Under funding will therefore remain a major constraint to further improving the health status of the
population.
c)     Intense brain-drain
The two national medical schools together train about 120 doctors, while the school of pharmacy
trains about 80 pharmacists per annum respectively. All work at full capacity. Ghana also trains about
400 State Registered Nurses, 250 mudwives and 200 Community Health Nurses annually and could
produce more if the capacity of the schools is fully and effectively utilized.
The final output, however, only just makes up for staff loss through attrition and brain drain
every year. Government sources suggest that there are more Ghanaian doctors working abroad than in
Ghana and that the total number of nurses working in Ghana has dropped from about 14,950 in 1996 to
about 11,000 at present.
Due to the low level of emoluments paid in Ghana and the attractiveness of international labor
markets, it is unlikely that the exodus of health personnel can be stopped. Pragmatic interventions can
certainly help retain at least the critical mass of health professionals required to deliver a package of
basic services. However, it is unlikely that human resource issues can be addressed effectively without
significantly increasing the wage bill. This poses a major challenge in terms of sustainability, as the
health sector wage bill will need to be contained within an affordable sector budget.
c)     Untapped potential for contribution from non government health service providers
The private provision of health care in Ghana is quite substantial and is recognized as an
important and growing source of health services. Among the hospitals, 47% are government owned, 22%
operate on a pnvate not for profit basis and 31% on a private for profit basis. While the tertiary and
secondary hospital and the health center levels are dominated by the government facilities, the lower
level services are more pluralistic. It is estimated that in 1998/1999 almost half of all visits to health
facilities occurred in the private sector (GLSS 1998/1999). The mission facilities alone are estimated to
-9-



cover 40% of the population, supplying an estimated 30% of beds and 35% of outpatient care.
The Government has supported the need for closer cooperation with the private sector throughout
the 1990's. In many districts, the mission hospitals provide essential services and receive funds from
MOH to pay salaries of staff seconded from MOH. Some mission hospitals that have been designated as
district hospitals receive funds to cover other running costs. However, this has been very slow to reach
its potential despite the establishment of a Private Sector Unit in the Ministry in 1997. The new
government is however, emphasizing more strongly the importance of involving the private sector more
in integrated service delivery and is committed to increasing its role in curative service to 65% in the
long term.
d)     HffV/AIllDS.
The recently created Ghana AIDS Commission (GAC) estimates that the national
sero-prevalence could rise from 3% in 2001 to somewhere in the range of 4 (best case scenario) to 9%
(worst case scenario) in 2014, depending on the efficiency of prevention and control measures. At the
current rate of infection, by the year 2005, 1.2 million people will be living with HIV and there will be
about 200,000 children orphaned by AIDS. The potential devastating impact of AIDS on the health
sector, the economy and the society makes it the single most important issue in the years to come.
The HIV/AIDS epidemic has for some years now been receiving more attention from
government. A "strategic framework for H1IV/ADS" has been prepared to enable Ghana to implement a
balanced, diversified, multi-sector response, engaging all relevant government sectors, non-governmental
organizations and grassroots initiatives.
The projected total costs of control measures included in the HIV/AIDS plan for 2001-2005 was
estimated at about US$300 million. Out of this total amount, US$66 million are for health sector related
interventions. This represents 6% of the total resource envelope. Financing the fight against the
epidemic, mainstreaming HIV/AIDS issues into activities within the health sector and progressively
introducing ffighly Active Anti-retroviral Treatment (HAART) pose major challenges to MOH and the
entire health sector, not the least in terms of equity.
The Sector Wide Appronach Tar IIeaDth Devealpmerm- $WA1H
Since 1998, the World Bank together with other cooperating partners (namely DFID-UK,
Danida, The Netherlands, the European Union and the Nordic Development Fund ) have participated in a
Sector Wide Approach for health development ( SWAP) in Ghana. These partners and the Ministry of
Health, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU-I ) stipulating common management
arrangements. Under the SWAP, cooperating partners have -at least partially- given up the right to select
specific issues to address or project to finance in exchange for having a voice in the process of
developing the sector-wide strategies and allocating the resources. They have also pooled an increasing
part of their resources into a Health Fund managed by the MOH in parallel to GOG budget resources.
The World Bank contributed to the Program and participated in the SWAP through the Health Sector
Program Support Project (HSPSP-I- IDA Credit GH-2994).
All in all, the SWAP arrangements in Ghana have succeeded in creating a discourse conducive to
positive change. One of the major achievements and effects is that for the first time in the Ghana Health
Sector, health policies have been explicitly linked to resource allocation in a comprehensive manner,
covering all Govemment and donor financing. Applicatior of the principles of the SWAP of transparent
- 10-



processes for planning, budgeting, implementation, reporting, accounting, auditing and monitoring has
increased efficiency compared to the regime of more isolated project support. In addition to the emphasis
on decentralizing management responsibility and building capacity of the Ministry, ownership of the
program by the Ministry has been enhanced fostering a more sustainable development. A very supportive
common frame of reference in terms of joint in-depth reviews has been created. It is worth noting that the
main critical mutual assumptions in terms of resources allocations have been fulfilled.
In general, the Government and many partners perceive giving sector budget support through the
Health Account as successful. Although some of the stated goals of the POW-I were not achieved, still
there were notable improvements in outputs and outcomes. In Ghana, the modality of sector budget
support within a SWAP is still deemed the most efficient way of attaining positive and sustainable
change.
Government Strategy and Program of Work (see detailed description in annex 2)
The 2002-2006 MOH Program of Work ( POW-Il) is an integral part of the Ghana Poverty
Reduction Strategy (GPRS). The objective for the period 2002-2006 is to continue to improve the health
status of the population while focusing efforts on reducing inequalities in health.
The POW-II serves as a plan for the whole health sector and describes those health activities
funded through public resources, including Govemment, donors, and internally generated funds. The
Program covers both policy development and operational activities and ongoing delivery as well as new
initiatives. The details of the MOH POW are expected to change from year to year as reflected in annual
work programs and budgets.
Main Stratenzies:
The POW-Il is built on five strategic pillars (the same as for the POW- I):
*      To increase (geographical, financial and sociocultural) access to health services,
*      To improve quality of health delivery, improving health-worker-performance and responsiveness
to client needs,
*      To improve the efficiency of health service delivery, improving cost effectiveness and planning,
management and administration,
*      To foster partnerships in improving health (with households and communities, between public
and private providers, other ministries, departments and agencies) with development partners.
*      To improve financing of the health sector through increased financing and increasing financial
access of the poor to health care by extending prepayments schemes to replace the "Cash and Carry"
systems, while developing an appropnate policy and regulatory environment for health insurance, as well
as increasing public expenditure on the poor and vulnerable.
Targets:
The GPRS paper incudes targets set for the end of 2004 while the most important program
impact targets have been set for the end of the year 2006 as:
*      Maintain life expectancy at 58 years;
*      Reduce the infant mortality rate from 57 to 50 deaths per 1000 live births;
*      Reduce under five mortality from 108 to 95 per 1000 live births;
-1 -



o      Reduce maternal mortality from 214 to 150 per 100,000 live births;
o      Increase DPT3 coverage from 76.3% to 95%
o      Increase Measles coverage from 82.4% to 95%
o      HIV/AIDS prevalence rate reduced to 2.6%;
o      TB cure rate improved from 45% to 63%;
o      Reduce the case fatality rate of malaria for under 5 yr children to 15%;
o      Reduce Guinea Worm cases from 7,400 to 0;
o      Increase ANC coverage from 47% to 70%;
o      Increase supervised deliveries from 50% to 600%;
o      Increase Family Planning from 25% to 40%;
o      Increase outpatient visit per capita from 0.49 to 0.6
o      Increase hospital admission rate from 34.9 to 40 per 1000.
Prozram description:
Within the overall framework, the MOH will focus its efforts on the 10 following areas:
1- Strengthening priority health interventions: implementing a package of prionty health
interventions and re-orientating secondary and tertiary services, empowering communities,
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of health service provision and, institutionalizing quality
in all health facilities.
2- Develoning human resources for health services: restructuring the sector's personnel numbers,
distribution and skill mix, developing and implementing continuous professional development
programs, decentralizing health staff management and developing performance management systems
as well as promoting collaboration between public and private sector providers.
3- Enhancing infrastructure and support services: reviewing and mapping physical assets, assessing
the recurrent costs implications of planned and ongoing development projects, developing and
implementing a Hospital Strategy, strengthening the capacity and institutional arrangements for
capital investment management, developing and implementing a new transport policy to decentralize
transport management and maintenance.
4- Fostering partnerships for health, and promoting private sector Darticipation in health service
delivery: empowering individuals, households, communities and community based organizations,
building effective partnerships with other ministries, departments and agencies, strengthening the
capacity of all levels to plan and manage inter-sectoral programs and reorganizing the sector's
resource flows to support collaboration with other sectors, communities and civil society.
5- Lmproving regulation: increasing consumer protection and representation, empowering and making
more accountable the statutory bodies and moderniz:ng legal instruments.
6- Reforming organizational arrangements: completing the reorganization of the health sector with
clear roles for MOH and the Ghana Health Service, agreeing upon and implementing new
institutional arrangements including legislative instruments, services agreements and inter-sectoral
collaboration and strengthening management at all levels (MOH, GHS, Teaching Hospitals, Regional
and District as well as Statutory Bodies)
7- Improving the health sector financing: increasing real per capita expenditure on health, enhancing
- 12 -



and expanding prepayment schemes, rationalizing the exemption policy and developing clear
implementation guidelines, revising the allocation formulae to include health needs and poverty and
gender issues.
8- Improving financial management systems: strengthening planning and budgeting systems for
decentralized resource utilization and management, and establishing mechanisms at BMC level to
determine efficient use of resources.
9- Further strengthening management information systems and performance monitoring: developing
performance indicators and providing an evidence base for policy and practice, building capacity to
monitor contractual arrangements, strengthening the capacity for operational research, and improving
the use of information technology.
10- Linking with traditional medicine: developing a national agenda for herbal and altemative
medicine, designing and implementing quality assurance programs and initiating training programs
for traditional and alternative medical practitioners.
Resource envelope and allocations:
The MOH Program of Work will continue to be funded from four broad sources: (i) Govemment
budget, (ii) Internally Generated Funds (IGF- user fees), (iii) the donor Health Fund and (iv) other
parallel donor financed activities (traditional projects, earnarked funds).
The projected resource envelope for the POW-II is set out in table No 2 below. It is based on
projections of real GDP growth of 4-5%, inflation decreasing to single digit by 2004, projected GOG
expenditures levels, expected external aid and income from users. The projection operates with a high
and low case scenario. The total resource envelope for the 5 year sector program is estimated to be
US$1,012 million in the low case scenario and US$1,112 million in the high case scenario.
Table No. 3: Projected resource envelope for POW II (2002-2006). US$ millions
_ _':~)3ource.s o   : | . 2t02  ;2003  2004    2005     2006     Total
Low case scenario        |        l        l___l___
GOG                           82.3     111.4    127.5    146.7    169.8     637.8
Intemally generated funds       15       15       15        15       15       75
Extemal Ald                     601      60       60        60       60      300
Grand Total                  157.3     186.4    202.5    221.7    244.8    1012.8
High case scenario                 _        l_r
GOG                           82.3     111.4    127.5    146.7    169.8     637.8
Internally generated funds      15       15       15        15       15       75
External Aid                    801      80       80        80       801     400
Grand Total              r   177.31   206.4     222.5    241.7    264.8    1112.8
Source: POW 1I (January 2002, revised August 2002)
The resource envelope projections take into account the additional funding made available to
health due the HIPC initiative. This additional funding represents a 13-15 % increase on the initially
projected total resource envelope or a 27 % increase on the projected regular GOG resources for MOH.
The total proposed revised resource envelope over five years amounts to 1,012-1,112 million US$ and
the projected 2006 per capita expenditure is 11-12 US$. (Assuming a population of 18.4 million in 2000
- 13 -



(Ghana Statistical Service 2000) and a population growth rate of 2.75 % p.a.)
The government will remain the dominant financier of the health sector during the Program
period, financing 57% of the total program budget (63% in low case scenario). External aid will play a
significant role as it is expected to finance about 30-36% of the POW-1i, providing about US$ 60 to 80
million annually. However, it is expected that donor financing will contribute to a decreasing proportion
of total public expenditures from about 45% in 2002 to 30% in 2006 in the low case scenario. About or
more than 50% of donor contributions are expected to be pooled into the Health Fund, and managed by
MOH in parallel with the budget funds.
Private users will continue to share the cost of health care by paying for drugs and services. The
Government, however, intends to phase out the system of front payments for drugs and supplies (the
"cash and carry" system) and to improve and extend the exemption scheme; and to further develop health
insurance. Internally Generated funds are expected to cover about 7% of the total projected financing.
The exemption system put in place to protect the most vulnerable parts of the population will be further
enhanced.
The sector policy guidelines for resource allocation are to: (i) make more resources available for
the attainment of universal access to pnmary health services, (ii) achieve a better balance between
development and recurrent budgets and, (iii) realign existing inequalities in regional allocations.
The US$237 million proposed capital investment plan is based on the following set of guiding
principles: retention of staff through the provision of staff accommodation; development of human
resource capacity through the rehabilitation and expansion of training schools; reduction of geographical
inequities in accessing health care; enhancing complementarity to avoid duplication at all level levels;
increased collaboration and partnership between Ministries, Departments and Agencies (IVDA's),
Development Partners and the Private Sector; and Directing adequate resources to the provision of
facilities in the deprived regions in line with the GPRS.
On average, the total resource envelope allocated to wages for the POW-f1 will be about 32%.
However, it has been agreed that given the necessity to retain staff, the share of the personal emolument
will be progressively increased up to 38% in 2006 . Only mninor shifts in resource allocation by level of
service of non-wage recurrent costs (item 2-3) between levels are planned with the share of resources to
the district level maintained at about 42%. This implies that the expected increase in the resource
envelope for non-wage recurrent costs will primarily benefit the lower levels of care.
The three northem regions and Central region have been identified as priority areas. Overall the
percentage of recurrent expenditure on disadvantaged districts of the country should increase. Therefore,
the target is to allocate 39% of recurrent expenditures to the three northern and central regions (which
amount for 26.7% of total population of Ghana according to the 2000 population census).
IFrogruam imnplementation arrirrgements
The program will be implemented through the regular channels of the Government. The MOH
will remain responsible for policy, monitoring, coordination of donors and inter-sectoral agencies, and
public financing for health services as well as regulation within the sector.
The Ghana Health Service and two Teaching Hospital Boards have been established to manage
the delivery of a decentralized public health service more efficiently. District Health Administrations,
- 14-



located in each of the 110 districts, are responsible for organizing the local provision of health services.
All these will prepare and implement health budgets and monitor the performance of service delivery
with responsibility and authority delegated to various (about 350) Budget Management Centers-BMCs.
All BMCs will prepare annual plans and budgets for their area of responsibility according to issued
guidelines and budgetary ceilings with regard to non-salary recurrent expenditures, for which they will be
provided with finances.
At each level, health comrruttees will be formed with representation of stakeholders, including
District Assemblies, women, and religious bodies. These committees will advise the health teams on
community needs.
Agreement has been made between donors and MOH to use, as far as possible, common
implementation arrangements for planning and budgeting, implementation, including procurement of
civil works, goods and TA, financial management (disbursement and management of funds, accounting
and audit) as well as reporting on progress. The program will continue to be managed by coordinated
common implementation arrangements for the MOH and a core group of donors, including World Bank,
DfID, DANIDA and the Netherlands. These Co-operating partners have agreed to continue to pool an
increasing part (about 75% or more) of their resources into a Health Fund managed by the MOH. Some
parallel systems for those donors maintaining earmarked funds or projects, such as USAID, JICA and
WHO, will continue. Some donors (eg. EU and possibly DFLD) are considenng moving from sector
budget support to general budget support.
The revised Common Management Arrangements (CMA II) contain details on the
implementation arrangements both regarding government and its partners. In 1998, a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) between the Government and the core group of donors was signed, outlining the
operational implications of common implementation arrangements. A revised version has been prepared
and is currently under discussion.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Together with other cooperating partners (DFlD, DANIDA, The Netherlands and the European
Union), the Bank will continue to participate in the Sector Wide Approach for health development (
SWAP) to support the implementation of the second 5 Year POW.
The policy and strategic choices that have been made by the GOG and are reflected in the
2002-2006 MOH Program of Work, largely result from the dialogue the MOH has maintained with all
partners, including the Bank. This dialogue on policy and strategies will be continued during the
implementation of the POW, with the preparation of the annual programs of work being the opportune
time for translating this dialogue into concrete choices. The sector issues to be addressed through the
Bank support are and will remain within the universe of those being addressed by the GOG and the
MOH.
However, implicit in the SWAP approach to sectorial development is the fact that donors have an
agenda when it comes to the content and orientation of policies and strategies. In what regards the Bank,
the description of where the Bank, taking into consideration its comparative advantage, expects to
contribute most strongly in terms of policy dialogue and knowledge sharing is provided in the (draft)
document titled. "Improving HNP outcomes for the Poor in SSA, Strategic options for the World Bank"
and correspond to: sustainable financing, public expenditure and public management, inequalities,
contracting arrangements with the missions and private sector and workforce. The sector issues that the
Bank team would like to particularly addressed in Ghana during the implementation of the MOH
- 15 -



2002-2006 POW are detailed in the Project description summary below (section 2, key policy and
institutional reforms supported by the project).
C. Project 0850FERftn SUMWStC
l. ITroject components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Through a combined Grant ( US$ 32.3 million) and Credit ( US$57.3 rnillion), the International
Development Association will finance a portion of the combined Government and external assistance
budgets for policy development and operational activities, both on-going service delivery and new
initiatives. The 2002-2006 Program of Work, the detailed annual Work Programs, Budgets and
procurement plans prepared by the Ministry of Health will continue to provide the basis for which the
World Bank will operate.
IDA will first provide US$7.5 million in reimbursement of expenditures incurred in 2002. IDA
will then provide US$15 million in 2003 and a baseline financing of US$20 million per year in 2004,
2005 and 2006. A US$7.5 million unallocated component is set aside to allow for adjustment of the
annual IDA allocation during the implementation of the POW. To the extent practicable, Grant funds will
be disbursed before those of the Credit.
The rationale for adjusting the annual IDA allocation will be based on the following factors:
o   Existence of a gap between budgeted and available funds that cannot be covered by grant funds,
o   Evidence of increased GOG allocations to the heaLth sector (i.e. in proportion of the GOG
budget),
o   Evidence of progress in sector performance, in particular in the area of increases in utilization of
services and improved health outcomes in the poorest parts of the country,
o   The Health Account balance at the time of the decision (October/November) does not exceed
25% of the total annual pooled donor contributions.
The IDA annual sector financing commitment will be approved (in November each year) by the
Country Director, based on recommendations of the Bank team resulting from the discussions with
Government, development partners and other key stakeholders.
Reguirements for IDA transfers would be as follows:
1- Organization by the Borrower of an annual sector performance review and presentation/discussion
with stakeholders including the civil society and the development partners of the review report
during the April/May health summit and endorsement of the review findings and conclusions;
2- Presentation by the Borrower of a draft annual POW for the upcoming year during the
September/October Health Summit and endorsement of this POW by all core donors and, submission
for review and clearance by the Bank of a three year rolling procurement plan.
3- Submission by the Borrower of the annual MOH budget that is submitted to parliament; and,
4- Submission of the external independent procurement and financial management audits for the
previous year as well as action plans to address issues identified.
- 16 -



IDA could postpone its disbursements into the Health Account if at the end of previous quarter
the balance in the US$ Health account exceeds 25% of the donor commitments for the year considered or
if funds allocated have not been transferred in due time and according to work plans to the Budget
Management Centers.
Table 4: Proposed Financing Components
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                       lfosts:4.   -      .  financing  Bank-
~ = (US$M) L  .Total.  (US$M)  firancing
Year 2002                                           177.35      15.9      7.50       8.3
Year 2003                                           206.39      18.5     15.00      16.7
Year 2004                                           222.49      20.0     20.00      22 2
Year 2005                                           241.77      21.7     20.00      22.2
Year 2006, including a 7.5 US$ million unallocated  264.86      23.8     27.50      30.6
component for adjustment
Total Project Costs  1112.86  100.0     90.00     100.0
Total Financing Required  1112.86    100.0     90.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
In addition to the Bank financial support, and in close collaboration with other external partners,
the Bank team will continue to contribute to the policy and strategic dialogue and technical discussions,
as well as providing day to day implementation support and will assist MOH on any issue upon request.
The exact role of the Bank team in implementation support will be discussed and agreed upon with the
MOH and other partners. In line with the areas identified as the Bank's comparative advantage within the
draft document titled "Improving HNP Outcomes for the Poor in SSA, Strategic options for the World
Bank". It is however expected that the Bank team will focus on the following topics and issues. When
needed and feasible, the Bank team will use opportunities given by Trust Funds to provide international
technical assistance and pilot innovative interventions.
Reducing inequalities in health. As a priority, the team would assist MOH in refining strategies to
reduce geographical disparities in access to health and health outcomes. In liaison with other partners
and especially Danida, whose support Program include a specific component in this field, the team will
in particular support MOH's efforts to define and implement a more balanced capital development
program with a clear focus on basic health services and the poorest and most deprived part of the
country (i.e the Northern Belt). The Team will also assist MOH and the Ghana Health Service in
developing and implementing a new strategy to attract and retain health staff in the most deprived areas.
In its dialogue with the MOH and partners, the team will pay particular attention to strategies and
interventions that could contribute to the reduction of gender inequalities.
Improve physical and financial accessibility to health care. The Bank team will focus its attention
on the allocation of public resources to health. The team will work with MOH and other partners (in
particular those involved in budget support, namely DFID and the EU) on the definition and
implementation of a more adequate and equitable allocation formula, and support initiatives aiming at
disproportionately finance interventions in the poorest areas of the country. The Bank will continue to
work (in association with other interested external partners) on issues related to user fees and the
exemption policy. Further, the Bank would provide technical support to MOH staff and other
stakeholders in developing a definition and implementation plan for insurance and prepayment schemes
for both the formal and informal sectors.
- 17 -



Betler entplt the publc sector comparative advamtage. In conjunction with DFlI and Danida who
have been providing support in this area to the MOH in tie past and are intending to continue to with it,
the Bank team will help MOH define and implement contractual arrangements with both mission and
private sectors for the provision of core health services.
Enanc¢e access to and qualty and efficency in the delivery o? -L ,-' healt mCerventm  vwtlh a
majoir locus on FHEiV/AHD. The Bank will support the govemment to focus on financing services that
tackle the major public health priorities - a defined core set of priority diseases and services. These
diseases have been designated priorities because of their potential or actual impact on health, or because
of the current large disparities in health outcomes between regions, and between urban and rural areas.
Others have been selected because of their impact on household resources, particularly for the poor, or
because they are targeted for eradication. These diseases and interventions include (but are not limited
to): HIV/AIDS/STI, malaria, tuberculosis, poliomyelitis, reproductive, maternal and child health,
accidents and emergencies. Others are non-communicable diseases, oral health and eye care and
Specialist services, including psychiatric care.
In FY 2000, the Bank approved a US$25 mnillion Project (The Garfund) to support GOG in implementing
a multi-sector response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, engaging all relevant government sectors, non
governmental organizations, and grass roots initiatives. The objective of the Garfund is to reduce the
spread of the HIV infection and reduce the impact of AIDS on those infected and their families by
financing interventions outside the MOH's mandate. Therefore, the health team will need to help ensure
that AIJV/AJDS related activities undertaken within the health sector are well coordinated with those
carried out by other sectors and the civil society and particularly that the right balance between
prevention and treatment is created. The health team will assist MOH in refining the EIV/AIDS Health
Sector Strategic Plan and will assist MOH to improve the quality and efficiency of medical or health
related interventions to combat HJV/AIDS. In particular, the Team will share with the National AIDS
Control Program under the MOH, information on best international practices in this field including the
introduction of IHighly Active Anti-Retroviral Treatment-IAART. The Team will take all necessary
steps and actions to help the MOH ensure that the provision of HAART does not lead to a radical shift in
the use of resources from primary health care for poor people to tertiary care for the better off.
lRmprove publc service rnanagement. The Bank will continue to help MOH improve its procurement
and financial management procedures. As agreed with MOE and partners, the Bank will continue to
provide oversight on procurement and day to day implementation support- including training- in this
field. The team will in particular review the 3 year rolling and annual procurement plans and conduct
prior review for all ICB contracts. It will contribute to the preparation (and analysis of the results) of the
annual procurement and financial audit reports and assist the MOE in preparing and implementing
action plans to redress the anomalies that would be revealed by these audits.
Derfoiamce monmitoring: In conjunction with partners (in particular, WHO and the EU ) the Bank
team will assess the quality of reporting on performance indicators through missions organized jointly
with other partners and will participate in sector performance reviews camed out by the Ministry of
Health.
- 18 -



3. Benefits and target population:
This Financing and implementation support of the Bank team would help the MOH and the
Government of Ghana make progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals and more
specifically reduce the maternal, infant and child mortality rates as well as improve access to
reproductive health services.
By supporting the MOH POW and working in close cooperation with development partners and
other stakeholders, the Bank support would have the following benefits:
(i)    Improved policy and strategies with greater country ownership at all levels,
(ii)   Greater focus on primary and secondary care, on under served and poorer areas,
populations as well as on gender,
(iii)  Greater progress in increasing immunization, reducing incidence of communicable
diseases, especially malaria, TB, Guinea Worm and HIV/AIDS as well as of malnutrition and
road traffic accidents, (iv)  Increased budget allocation for health with improved financing
mechanisms and better management capacity at MOH, GHS and BMCs resulting in greater
health spending per capita and a more rational use of resources, and
(vii)  Greater retention of medical staff through improved conditions of service and improved
personnel management.
The target population may be classified into three categories:
*   All Ghanaians will benefit from improved management and financing of health services as well
as better quality of health care delivery.
*   While all segments of the population will benefit from the Credit, the Program, by focusing on
prionty health interventions, provision of basic health services, reducting inequalities and by
putting in place more equitable financing mechanisms, including exemption schemes, will make
the poor, particularly the rural poor and women, the main beneficianes.
*   MOH, GHS and BMC staff, and health workers outside the govemment sector will benefit from
capacity-building activities in management, public health, financial management, procurement,
improved human resources management as well as increased resources for their activities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
For a detailed description on implementation arrangements see Annex 6. All implementation
afrangements will be guided by the sector-wide approach for health development-SWAP which has been
adopted by the government and the core group of development partners and more specifically by:
*   The revised Common Management Arrangements (CMA-ll), which outlines the systems
that have to be in place in the sector for implementation of the POW).
* The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU-II) signed by the MOH and its external
partners,
* The Development Financing Agreement.
Institutional arrangements
There will be no separate implementation unit and the World Bank support will be implemented
using the regular channels of the Government. The MOH will remain responsible for policy, performance
- 19-



monitoring and coordination of partners, whereas the Ghana Health Service, the Teaching Hospitals
Boards and other Budget Management Centers as well as the contracted rnission sector will be the
executing agencies.
HDA llDisbursemernis. ( see also annex 6 and CMA-fl)
No IDA Special Account will be established. Funds committed by DDA will be disbursed directly
into the common separate US dollar bank account under the Health Account. The Health Account is
under the direct control of MOH headquarters and the Controller and Accountant General. These
disbursements by the Bank will be made in reimbursement of a portion of already incurred expenditures
of the MOH under the agreed Program. Withdrawal applications will be submitted to the Bank by the
Financial Controller of the MOH. MDA funds are planned, in principle, to be disbursed into the Health
Account on a quarterly basis. However, this arrangement could be revised and IDA direct disbursements
into the Health Account used as a "swing payment" to help manage cash flow variations of the MOH.
The MOH will, however, have the option to request part of the credit to be drawn using the
Bank's direct payment and special comnutment procedures. Although it is not possible to determine
ex-ante the exact portion of the credit that may be used under this disbursement procedure, it is expected
that a part of the annual credit funds will be used to assist MOH with: 1) Advance payments to the UN
agencies for the supply of vaccines, drugs, medical equipment and vehicles and, 2) direct payments to
international suppliers for major procurement for MOH. This will be carried out using ICB procedures.
IFlow of funds ( see annex 6 part B):
The MOH operate l) a US dollar account into which all contributions from those donors
participating in the pooling arrangements are paid to finance the agreed POW and, 2) a Ghana cedi
account into which transfers from the US dollar account are paid. A separate Ghana cedi account will be
used for the funds provided by GOG. Funds are then transferred to the BMCs accounts. All BMCs
operate at least three accounts for a) Govemment of Ghana releases, 2) donor pooled funds from the
Health Account and 3) internally generated funds. Once IDA and other donor funds reach the Health
Account, there will be no further identification of the origins of the funds by donor. The intention is that
the Bank will not "put its flag" on disbursements in the MOH accounting records either at BMC level or
at the central level.
EZlgibRe expendLaures ( see also annex 6):
The Health Fund (and therefore the MDA credit funds pooled into the Health Account) will not be
used to finance wages, honorarium and salary top-ups, taxes and land acquisition. The Health Fund
would finance all non wage categories of expenditures, including civil works, goods and services, drugs,
vehicles, operating costs, training and consultants as long as these conform to the approved annual
budget, work program and budget as well as procurement plan and adhere to the agreed procurement
procedures.
lPrecuirement (see Annex 6 part A):
On or before November 30th each year, the Govemment will provide the Association for its
review and approval, a consolidated annual procurement plan as a subset of the annual program of work.
All procurement under the POW will be carried out following the provisions of the Procurement
procedures Manual of the MOH. As agreed with MOH and partners, all contracts for works, goods
- 20 -



financed under the Program (including those funded directly by the Government) through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and consulting services will be procured in accordance with the relevant
World Bank's Guidelines. Since the Bank will continue prior review of all ICB and specific other
non-ICB contracts (e.g. sole sources), Form 384 will continue to be completed for all these contracts
based on this review. The IDA financing percentage will be set at the percentage of the Health Fund that
is funded by IDA.
In the event of mis-procurement (whether identified in the annual audits or otherwise), IDA will
reserve the right to declare mis-procurement on any contract in the joint financed pool and will cancel the
entirety of the declared mis-procured contract or a part of the credit based on IDA' share of the pool .
Accounting procedures and financial reporting ( see annex 6 part B):
The MOH's own financial accounting manual- known as the Accounting Treasury and Financial
procedure rule book (ATF rules) adopted in 1998 will continue to be used to guide financial management
staff in the conduct of their operational activities. Budgeting and reporting systems will continue to be
maintained at adequate levels and accounting staff of all Budget Management Centers will be re-trained
in the use of the rule book. The MOH has adopted a Financial Procedures Supplement to the ATF Rules,
which better describes the Flow of Funds arrangements set out in the CMA-Il and better defines the
reporting format, content and frequency of the regular financial monitoring reports to be provided by
MOH during the implementation of the Program.
Budget Management Centers-BMC will submit monthly financial report to the next higher levels.
The reporting format is in the ATF rules and regulation. The report would cover all sources of income,
GOG, IGF Health Account and earmarked support and expenditures at item level divided on vanous
types of cost centers. The report also reflects the movements in cash. The regional level will monthly
consolidate all reports for the region and submit it quarterly to the Reporting and Analyzing Unit in the
Finance Department in MOH. Quarterly consolidated financial statements for the entire sector will
continue to be prepared and certified, as was the practice since the inception of the first program by the
MOH Financial Controller.
Auditing: ( see annex 6 part B)
In addition to internal audits carried out by the MOH, the GOG Auditor General' s Department
supported by an audit firm acceptable to the Co-operating partners will carry out an audit of the
consolidated set of financial statements (including the financial monitoring reports and Health Account)
for the overall POW of the MOH for each fiscal year ended. The TOR for the audit shall be acceptable
to the cooperating partners and the audit will have to be conducted in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to the Co-operating partners, consistently applied. An independent agent will also be
appointed to review the procurement that took place during the end. The Co-operating partners will
agree upon the Terms of Reference of this procurement audit and critena for selection of agents.
While audits would normally be provided annually, when particular risks have been identified,
any cooperating partners (including the Bank) may request a special audit to be conducted or may send
addition missions for further investigations.
Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements: ( see more details in annex 12)
Joint government and donor monitoring of the program will occur on a regular schedule.
- 21 -



Government and donors have agreed on a set of 25 indicators (30 including health status indicators) to
monitor the sector performance and sectores wide progress over the years. This system will be
progressively extended to private facilities. MOH will regularly comnpare the performance of public and
private services (as it has been done already for hospitals).
On the basis of the regional reports as well as other specific studies and surveys, an independent
team (compnsing both local and international experts) will annually appraise the overall sector
performance and will identify policy and strategic issues and make recommendations for action. The
independent report will then be presented and discussed with MOH and all interested parties during the
April/May health summits.
'11aible  Anu&l 1uRinudg CycRe
s" January - 31S1 March                   Review of previous year's policies and
performance (activities and outputs against
plans).
Submission of annual review reports (by end
February.
5st April - 30' June                     Identification and formulation of policy
priorities and issues for next year's plan (at
Annual Review Sunmnit).
National Planning Guidance issued.
15' July - 315' August                    Development of Agency  TF  plans for
following year based on provisional ceilings.
Review of all Agency plans and strengthening
to ensure national priorities are addressed.
Annual POW drafted (linking activities with
Mr1t.
Mid-year performance reviews by Agencies
and Partners.
1st September - 31st October              Development of Agency budgets based on
ceilings issued.
Approval of Annual POW document at MoH-
Partner Planning Summit.
Submission of plans and budgets to
MoF/Parliament.
November - December                      Completion of the Procurement Plan for the
next year.
Preparation of next year's annual service
agreements and perfornance contracts.
By mid-January                           Annual POW finalized and disseminated.
Signing of annual service agreements and
perfonnance contracts.
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons fonr reseclton:
The project approach has been used in Ghana with numerous traditional projects supporting
specific activities, each with their own plans, procedures, and reporting cycles. The approach was
- 22 -



rejected by MOH in 1996 because it does not sufficiently address structural issues, perpetuates health
sector inefficiencies (particularly in relation to prionty setting, capacity strengthening, and resource
allocation), and imposed a heavy administrative burden on MOH.
An APL would have been attractive to the extent that it allows for phasing of state investments
according to defined milestones and for sustained support of the government's health sector program
over a longer time honzon. It also allows for greater flexibility to pilot activities, lessons learned, and
scaling up. The on-going project, however, has shown that there is no need for a phased approach.
A Sector Adjustment Loan has been envisaged and rejected. As in the case of SECAL, resources
are transferred to the MOF and Treasury and not necessarily used to increase the sector budget. In
addition, in the case of a SECAL, the Bank would have no or very limited oversight on procurement.
Setting aside financial support to the Program, a technical assistance facility was also considered
but finally rejected. The Borrower prefers to obtain technical assistance from bilateral donors sources
and to have the TA required financed through grants. Also, when needed, TA can be financed through
World Bank Trust Funds and in some cases from the AAA Bank's budget. The Borrower is also waiting
for more day to day implementation support from World Bank country staff, particularly in ( but not
limited to) the fields of procurement and financial management
Given Ghana's very positive experience with the on-going Sector Investment Loan project, the
quality of the partnerships with the MOH and other development agencies, and the willingness of both
the MOH and its other partners to pursue this successful approach, a SIL appears to be the most
appropriate instrument but in a sector-wide approach.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Bank financed projects:
The Association has a long history of support to the Ghana Health Sector. In 1986 the Health
and Education Rehabilitation Project (CR 1653-GH), with an IDA credit of US$15 million, provided
emergency support for buildings and hardware in the education and health sectors as part of the ERP. Its
implementation was slow due to the diversity of activities undertaken. In June 1991 a second credit for
US$27 nillion became effective to finance the Health and Population Project (CR 2193-GH, closed in
December 1997). The ICR concluded that government ownership and strong collaboration with MOH,
other donor agencies, and NGOs were critical to its success.
The HSPSP-1 (CR. 2994-GH) became effective in July 1998 and is supporting the
implementation of the Medium Term Health Strategy and MOH 5-Year Program of Work, approved in
1997. As per June 30, 2002 100% of the credit had been disbursed. Both Project Development
Objectives and Implementation Progress are rated Highly Satisfactory (HS) and Satisfactory respectively.
An ICR is being prepared.
The Ghana H1V/AIDS Response Fund-GARFUND (Credit 3458-GH), a MAP project with a
credit in the amount of US$25 million, was approved and became effective in May 2002. It aims at
intensifying multi-sectoral activities designed to combat the spread of HIV/AIDS and reducing its impact
on those already affected by the disease. The project is supporting activities in the areas of prevention
and care strengthening public/private institutions in HIV/AIDS and in the area of knowledge
management. It also supports activities carried out by government ministries, departments and agencies
-23 -



as well as NGOs and community-based organizations. A significant proportion of the proceeds is used to
fund grass root activities.
Dthaer developmenrt ageanciks
Agreement has been made between MOH and a core group of partners pooling at least a part of
their resources into the Health Fund (namely: Danida, DF1, the Netherlands Embassy and the World
Bank- referred below as the co-operating partners) to use, as far as possible, common implementation
arrangements for planning and budgeting and for implementation, including procurement, financial
management and technical assistance.
Co-operating partners, i.e those contributing to the Health Fund, represent only a subset of
donors supporting the Program. Donors may elect to enter the pool by signing the Memorandum of
Understanding. However, it will remain possible for a donor in the pool to also fund outside the pool
(this is currently the case for all co-operating partners except the Bank) and for other donors outside the
pool to fund the program using separate projects and earmarlced funds (this is currently the case for
WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, JICA, GTZ and AIDD).
Danide a nd ]lIFIll have increased both their financial contribution to the Program and the
proportion of their funds pooled into the Health Fund). They will maintain some earmarked activities, in
particular for the provision of technical assistance. 11Thae Netherlands Embassy has announced a
US$72.35million support that will be almost entirely pooled. Thelie Hairic lDevelpmemt TFud is
developing an earmarked project, in close cooperation with the Airicmn Develnpmeint 3unk. While
shifting to budget support, the European Unioun will maintain a limited financial contribution to the
pool as well as its technical assistance in the area of Monitoring and Evaluation. Close coordination is
maintained with the UN agennces, USAIID, S.UCA and a number of other bilateral, multilateral and
non-govemmental organizations active in the health sector in Ghana. These agencies will continue to
support the sector and the Program from outside the pool.
-24 -



Table No. 6: Expected Donor Contributions
Expected Donor contributions to the 2002-2006 MOH POW (US$ million)
2002  2003   2004    2005   2006   total % of total pooled % pooled
DFID       12.4   12.4   12.4   12.4   12.4     62      14%     45     73%
Danida      8.6    8.8    8.9    9.6    9.5    45.4     10%   28.4    63%
NL        14.47 14.47   14.47  14.47  14.47   72.35     16%   68.5    95%
WB            0   22.5    20     20    27.5     90      20%     90    100%
EU.        3.55    4.9    1.7    1.7      0   11.85      3%    7.4    62%
Saudi F       0    3.1     0      0       0     3.1      1%      0      0%
NDF        0.25    0.8   4.66     4     2.4   12.11     3%       0     0%
BADEA         0    0.4    1.5    1.5    1.5     4.9      1%      0      0%
AfDB          0    1.6    9.1   17.5    3.8     32       7%J     0      0%
USAID       3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    17.5      4%      0      0%
WHO           3     3      3      3       3     15       3%      0      0%
UNICEF        4     4      4      4       4     20       5%      0      0%
UNFPA      2.06   1.63   0.98  0.595          5.265      1%      0      0%
Gavi        6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4     32       70/%    0      0%
GFATM       1.6    2.4     3      4       4     15       3%      0      0%
GTZ         0.3    0.3     0      0       0     0.6      0%      0      0%
JICA        1.6   1.26     0      0       0    2.86      1 %     0      0%
total     61.73 91.46   93.61 102.67  92.47 441.935    100%   239.3    54%
target       80    80     80     80      80    400
gap       18.27 -11.46  -13.61  -22.67  -12.47 -41.935
revised December 13, 2002
Note: a) DfID will provide I million £ annually in addition for procurement of condoms;
b) EU intends to provide GOG 50 million Euros budget support.
c) The contribution from GAVI would be in the form of vaccines to be supplied by UNICEF;
d) USAID support to the health sector is larger than indicated, only mentioning funds directly transfered
to MOH.
e) some pledges, particularly those regarding civil works, are very likely to be disbursed over a longer
period of time than indicated here. Therefore, there may be no surplus.
Table No. 7: Supervision Ratings
1    Latest Supervision   l
Sector Issue                   Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                              Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Health Sector Program Support   Cr. 2994-GH                    S            S
Ghana AIDS Response Fund        Cr. 3458-GH
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 25 -



3. Lessons learned and re?lec¢ed An the piroject a3es.igin:
The Bank and MOH have been collaborating for more than 15 years. Many lessons have been
drawn from this collaboration and the implementation of various types of support provided by the Bank.
The first lesson learnt is that systemic improvement in health and behavior change requires a
long-term and sustained effort.
Earlier on in the work with Ghana, we learnt that: (i) implementation is slow when project
activities are scattered and MOH staff are not fully in the driver's seat; (ii) having a separate project
implementation unit does not necessarily facilitate implementation; (iii) working with existing
Government units improves ownership and effectiveness; (iv) supervising IDA-supported projects alone
is not enough to understand the sector; (v) developing partnerships with other donor agencies and sharing
information and workload with them is an effective approach; (vi) having Bank staff in the field who can
readily assist with implementation improves results.
More recently, the SWAP approach has given rise to a strong partnership between core donors
and MOH. From this experience, we learned that a more comprehensive approach is useful if: (i)
national development policies provide the framework for strategic planning and partner/stakeholder
participation; (ii) resource allocation is linked to objectives and results; and (iii) the "natural tendency" to
duplicate efforts is reduced through interaction and dialogue. This experience has clearly demonstrated
that appropriate efforts and investments can rapidly build up national capacity and improve systems
significantly.
One of the major achievements and effects of the SWAP and the implementation of the
1997-2C01 POW is the documentation of and political acknowledgement of the inequalities between
population groups. This is of course part of an international trend focusing on poverty as well as due to
the commitment of individuals in the MOHIGHS. However, it has been boosted in Ghana by the
unparalleled open and constructive policy dialogue, and by the joint and very useful annual review
reports. Another major achievement has been putting the issue of under-financing of the public sector,
and in this respect the importance of redefining public-pnvate roles, firmly on the agenda (MOH 2000,
2001). Finally, a more concrete result emerging, at least partly of the SWAP/common fund arrangements
is that construction of large sophisticated hospitals has been halted.
The effects of the budget support in terms of generally improved performance are obviously
quite difficult to track. First of all, impact and even outputs are influenced by a number of factors mostly
outside the control of a donor and many even beyond the control of the government. Secondly, in
severely under-financed systems the marginal effect of donor support is quite difficult to estimate, as the
under-financing renders many assumptions and factors difficult to assess, for example, staff efficiency.
Nevertheless, the Ghana sector programme or SWAP is internationally recognised as one of the few
actually producing tangible improvements.
We also noticed that governance was improved when donors used national systems and
procedures instead of their own. Although it has survived a number of conflicts, the unique relationship
between Government and donors is still relatively fragile. it is largely dependent on the capacity of both
the MOH and donor agency staff to keep the dialogue going and to compromise when needed. To do
this, donors need to keep up to date on developments in the sector. A local technical presence is
necessary to maintain the technical and policy dialogue; more frequent rnissions are needed; and the
donor team must include an adequate skill mix with capacity to analyze the issues and propose
alternatives.
- 26 -



4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership
The Government of Ghana has undertaken a major reform of the health sector based on its
MTHS and the first POW. While working in close collaboration with donors, the Government took the
lead in the process. Since the first performance review in 1998, the MOH has organized the policy
dialogue, implemented the POW, managed the pooled funds, and prepared the sector performance
reviews. In order to improve ownership, health summits have been open to a variety of stakeholders,
including representatives from other sectors, the political minority, faith-based missions, for-profit
pnvate sectors, NGOs, and representatives of patients associations (notably persons living with
HIV/AIDS).
In December 2000, a new NPP government was elected. The new Government has clearly
confirmed its commitment to continue and extend the reform process while continuing to work with
donors under the SWAP arrangements.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
There are several development agencies active in the health sector in Ghana, contributing with
both financing and technical assistance to the MOH Program of Work. Although this assistance is
increasing, their financial support remains relatively insufficient to raise the total public health
expenditure up to a level where the cost of a basic package of health intervention can be covered. The
financial support of the Bank will bring just less than a one US$ dollar per capita per year and will
therefore substantially cover the financing gap.
The day to day implementation support of the Bank team will assist the MOH in improving its
procurement and financial management systems. These are areas where the comparative advantage of the
Bank is aknowledged by both the MOH and the partners. Waiting for the National Laws and Procedures
to be improved up to a level acceptable by all partners, the World Bank procurement procedures will be
used for all ICB contracts to be financed under the Program, irrespective of the source of funding (GOG
budget and the Health Account). The fact that the World Bank will keep an oversight on procurement
makes partners in the pool more confident regarding the use of resources.
The Bank has gained substantial experience in supporting health sector reform programs and cost
effective health interventions. Acting as a knowledge broker, the Bank team will bring this knowledge
and experience to Ghana including sharing best practices approach from other countnes to addressing
specific health problems as well as fostering a debate on new ways of doing business in the health sector.
There will be a particular focus on continuing further programmatic support, promoting public-private
partnerships, new ways of addressing human and financial resource challenges, and broadening health
financing options.
The Bank also plays an important role in the overall policy dialogue with the GOG. It is engaged
in policy-related programs particularly at the macro-level, and this will help improve the consistency
between the health, economic and development policies. This has proven to be effective in the past. For
instance when the new government had to put in place tigher fiscal and monetary policies, the Bank's
interventions sectors resulted in a relative protection of BD sector from cutbacks.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
-27-



O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
There is a strong rationale for public involvement in the health sector and for Government to play
a major role in organizing, financing and regulating the health care system. First of all, the
epidermological situation is still characterized by the predominance of communicable diseases, in
particular vaccine preventable diseases, malaria, sexually transmitted diseases, H[V/AIDIS and
tuberculosis. Interventions against these diseases not only benefit individuals but also the entire
population and the externalities of this type of public goods provide the rationale for public finance.
Secondly, in a country where the literacy rate remain at 50% ( 37% for women) publicly organized
regulation of the system is needed to reduce the consequences on individuals, families and communities
of the imperfect information. Thirdly, although playing an important role, the profit and non-profit
private sectors remain under financial pressure and cannot cover adequately the population, especially
the poor. Therefore the public sector has a great role to play to improve the health coverage of the poor,
including establishing contractual arrangements with the mission sector and promoting community based
insurance schemes.
In spite of the recent Government's fiscal efforts to protect the social sectors, total public
expenditures on health are at a very low level ( US$ 4 per capita in 2000). Donor support provides an
additional US$2 per capita. Household expenditures on health are already representing 70% of the total
health consumption ( estimated at US$ 20). To avoid creating further inequalities in access to health
services and making sure that the poor are better protected against health related risks, Internally
Generated funds (user fees) cannot be increased without expanding the exemption schemes. All the
above points to the need to increase public financing. However, even in the most optimistic scenario (
real GDP growth of 5%, inflation decreasing to a single digit, improved fiscal policies with health
receiving 12-13% of the total GOG recurrent budget), Ghana's economy alone will not be able to provide
sufficient revenue to finance basic health services at an appropriate level. It is estimated that under the
scenario described above, the GOG expenditures on Health would not exceed US$ 7 to 8 per capita in
2006. Therefore, the need for continued and even increased donor support.
As shown in a study carried out by the Bank in January 2001, the distribution of health facilities,
personnel, and financial resources clearly favors the more affluent regions, urban areas and public
spending is not pro-poor. In the past years, inequalities in health have attained more attention from the
Government. In the 1997-2001 Program of Work, the major focus was on how to redirect the health
budget from tertiary to primary services. In addition, criteria were developed to ensure fair allocation
among regions and the different levels of the health services within regions. However, allocation is still
not based on any proxy for the volume of services delivered and the definition of a new formulae for
ressource allocation is needed.
Efforts to re-allocate funds to lower-level health facilities have had mixed results. On the one
hand, tertiary and regional hospitals now sustain recurrent expenditures from internal resources.
However, they still rely heavily on donor support for capital investments. On the other hand, the lower
levels of the health care system are not sustainable with more than 30% of its budget comning from donor
funds. One challenge is to develop a sustainable financing framework using the HIPC initiative which
requires that more national funds be allocated to health and the interest of the donor community in
supporting the MOH POW. A second challenge is to ensure that the growth in IGF is balanced by
appropriate measures to protect the poor.
The share of wage-expenditures in the total recurrent budget was to decrease from 55% in 1996
- 28 -



to 33% in 2001. However, to maintain indusmal peace, expand the intake of training institutions, and
retain staff, the proportion of wage-expenditure in the recurrent budget increased and remained over
40%. Given the human resource crisis facing the sector, it will not be necessary to increase the wage
bill in the commng years. In preparing for the new POW, MOH and its partners have started to review the
criteria for resource allocation. However, there is no bluepnnt or easy solution, and resource allocation
will need both monitoring and fine tuning.
About 3% of the adult population and about 400,000 people are already infected by the virus, It
is estimated than there will be 1.2 mullion people living with HIV in 2006. The impact of HIV/AIDS on
individuals, families, communities, all sectors of the economy and the fabric of the society is already
significant and will further increase over the coming years. The epidemic will also significantly affect the
health sector as: i) it will increase the number of people seeking services; ii) health care for HIV/AlDS
patients is more expensive than for other conditions; and, iii) it will affect the ability of the MOH and
partners to deliver services, as health service providers themselves contract HIV leading to increased
absenteeism, reduced work performance and death of skilled workforce.
In recent years the emergence of anti-retroviral treatment, particularly Highly Active
Anti-Retroviral Treatment 3 drug combination therapy (HAART) has changed the potential outlook for
PLWHA. One major problem in Ghana is that despite substantial price cuts, the annual cost per patient
for HAART is still going to be equal to or more than the average annual per capita income. This
situation is not likely to change as the current market price of generic HAART (about US$350) may be
close to the production price. It is very difficult to foresee how the provision of HAART could be done
cost-effectively or equitably. In fact, HAART has the potential of radically shifting the use of resources
from primary health care for poor people to tertiary care for the better off. Already, the draft ART
guidelines for Ghana (Feb 2002) state that it will only be available on a full cost-recovery basis, although
this issue is still debated. The MOH Sector budget in the Ghana AIDS Commission document shows a
plan to make it available for only 6000 patients per year. The MOH/GAC health sector strategy on
HIVtAIDS is presently budgeted at about US$112 Million; of this, approximately 70% (US$112 Million)
is allocated to preparations for HAART and procurement of anti-retroviral drugs. Meanwhile,
developments within the field of HAART treatment in developing countries are very dynamrc, and while
pointing to some important and imminent dangers fixed conclusions should be avoided at this stage.
The above means that during the implementation of the MTHS and 5-Year POW, the MOH and
its partners will have to pay particular attention to the three following challenging questions: (l) How to
increase the total resource envelope of the sector while ensuring sustainability in the long term? (ii) How
to ensure that the Program significantly benefits the poorest segments of the population? (iii) How to
provide health care to a growing number of AIDS patients in an affordable, sustainable, and equitable
manner?
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The resource envelope defined for the program appears to be realistic both when looking at the
capacity to generate revenues and in terms of absorptive capacity.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the Program is manageable but is nevertheless substantial and requires a
strong government commitment. Government financial contributions to the health sector are planned to
increase from 7.5% of its overall budget in 2001 to 8.0% in 2006. This is realistic but far from the 15%
objective adopted in the Abuja Declaration. The recurrent budget allocation to the MOH (items 1 to3) is
- 29 -



expected to increase from 11% of the 2001 total GOG recurrent budget up to 13% in 2006.
3. Technical:
The independent sector performance reviews carried out annually since 1998 have provided
MOH and all its partners with reasonably good information on the overall situation and have helped
identify both strengths and weaknesses as well as issues requiring special attention. The Program of
Work prepared by MOH on the basis of these reviews and the consultation of both internal and external
partners has been endorsed and has an appropriate policy and operational framework for the period
2002-2006.
The health sector strategies have been (and will continue to be) reviewed by Bank staff and
consultants in close collaboration with other partners and the performance reviews will continue to be
used to stimulate the dialogue with MOH on health policies and strategies.
Clearly some technical issues will require particular attention from the MOH, the partners and
the Bank. These include (but are not limited to):
a) The development of health insurance schemes: The Government is willing to progressively
replace the cash-and-carry system with pre-payment schemes. The national technical capacity in this
area has to be improved and technical support will be needed to explore alternative schemes.
b) The spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic: the implications of the continuous spread of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic have not yet been fully explored and/or translated into appropriate strategies. In
particular, to provide care for the hundreds of thousands of persons infected requires sound approaches
and strategies and a strong technical knowledge base.
c) Intersectoral collaboration: there is a clear need to develop inter-sectoral collaboration with
non-health sector related interventions to address the increasing burden of both comnmunicable and
non-communicable diseases. In the past years, MOH has proven to have only limited capacity for
intersectoral collaboration. Technical support will therefore be required.
d) Brain drain: Strategies to limit the exodus of health staff and deploy more staff to the
deprived areas will need to be better explored and developed. The MOH and Ghana Health Service
capacity in this area will need to be strengthened.
4. linsttuftonl:
In the past years, during the implementation of the first POW, the Ghana MOH and related
institutions have demonstrated reasonably good capacity to plan, budget, implement and monitor the
implementation of the Program. This was the case even after the 2000 elections when a large part of the
Yinistenal team changed. The MOH is effectively coordinating its external partners and organizing
the policy dialogue with them on a regular basis (monthly and quarterly meetings and the bi annual
health summits).
However, when implementing the first POW, the MOH and related institutions showed some
weaknesses in their capacity to: i) to carry out in due time certain activities ( for instance the preparation
of the performance reviews or the procurement plans), ard ii) to prepare annual programs of work
spelling out in details activities to be carried out and responsibilities. Continued efforts and donor
support will be needed to assist the MOH in improving planning and in respecting the agreed deadlines.
4.1 Executing agencies:
- 30 -



During the implementation of the POW-II the MOH will essentially be focusing on policy and
regulation issues while the Ghana Health Service, the Teaching Hospitals and other implementing
agencies will be responsible for implementing the Program.
The political commitment to make GHS functional is very strong. The legal framework is in
place and the stated intentions are appropriate. The spreading of the relatively limited human resources
that can provide leadership and management at headquarters level between two organizations (MOH and
GHS) is a difficult task and has created some "turbulences". However, the situation has improved
significantly in the last few months and is expected to normalize completely in another year.
The executing agency of the IDA support credit is the MOH through its various administrative
divisions and sub-divisions. As it was the case during the implementation of the first POW and as stated
before, the Health Account will continue to be operated by the Financial Controller of the MOH. The
Bank will need to continue to provide technical assistance, day to day implementation support to the
Financial Controller, the MOH, GHS and financial teams of other agencies.
4.2 Project management:
As during the implementation of the first five year POW there will be no separate
implementation unit to manage the Bank's support. It will be entirely managed by MOH staff. Therefore
the capacity of MOH departments and other institutions will need to be regularly assessed and where
needed strengthened.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement issues will continue to be handled by the MOH procurement unit, set up in 1998.
This unit has been progressively strenghtened but remains understaffed and needs further support.
MOH/GHS and other agencies' splitting roles and responsibilities will progressively change in the
coming years and this could create some more difficulties. All this transition will have to be carefully
monitored continuously.
All procurement under the Program will be done according to the World Bank procedures for
ICB and the national procedures defined in the Procurement Procedure Manual for non-ICB activities.
The manual will have to be revised from time to time and procurement staff will need to be regularly
retrained. It is worth noting that the Government may procure vaccines, contraceptives, drugs, medical
equipment, vehicles and other goods directly from UN Agencies, in accordance with the UN procurement
procedures as and when needed and the Bank would finance advance payments required by the UN
agencies.
The MOU-II clearly states that an annual procurement plan has to be submitted, agreed upon by
donors, and that all procurement should be within the agreed procurement plan. The MOU also makes
special provisions on the format and date of submission of the procurement plan. Once the procurement
plan has been endorsed, no change should be allowed without discussion and agreement by co-operating
partners.
The Bank will continue to provide oversight on all procurement including prior review for all
ICB under the Program. The Bank will reserve the right to declare mis-procurement on any contract in
the joint financed pool and could cancel from the IDA credit the entirety of a declared mis-procured
contract.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Health sector and MOH financial management and information systems have been
- 31 -



significantly improved during the period of the first POW. A relatively strong finance and accounts unit
has been put in place Almost all accounting staff in the BMCs have received training in key financial
management principles and in the use of the Accounting Treasury and Financial Reporting Rules and
Instructions (ATF rules and Procedures Handbook). The 2002-2006 POW will continue to develop
financial management and control over both the national and foreign financial resources and increase
transparency and accountability of government operations. Key weaknesses to be addressed include
among others, the inadequacy of the current accounting software used and the insufficiencies in internal
audit functions. In close collaboration with other partners, the World Bank will continue to provide
training and day to day implementation support in financial management.
During the first POW, MOH incorporated Bank procurement and financial management
procedures into the national procedures. This resulted in a greater sense of ownership by Ghana and
substantially enhanced the quality of procurement. Although good progress has been made in financial
management, there is still room for improvement in fine-tuning the systems and procedures and further
building capacity. External audit firms have advised that the financial controller should certify that the
BMCs authorized to manage Health Account Funds have strengthened their internal financial
management and that they satisfy the six minimum readiness criteria already defined. This will be
discussed with MOH and implemented. Since the inception of the first program, there have been few new
BMCs certified and no re-certification process. Such certification and re-certification processes will be
included as part of the tasks of the financial auditors.
S. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
5.1 Summarize significant environmental issues and objectives and identify key stakeholders. If the
issues are still be be determined, describe current or planned efforts to do so.
An environmental and social impact assessment (EL4A) has been conducted to assess: i) any
potential and social impacts that could emanate from investing in the expansion and improvement of
basic health services delivery and facilities through implementation of the Ministry's Program of Work;
ii) assist the Ministry in defining actions to mitigate the environmental and social adverse effects of its
activities; and iii) and also to assist the ministry in planning for the build up of its capacity on the longer
term to address health related environmental issues. The ElA is available in project files.
The main conclusions of the EIA is that the main potential environmental risks of the MOH
program of Work relate to contamination of soil, water, air and handlers of hospital waste, impregnation
and reimpregnation of bednets. This is also a risk not only for the staff in health facilities and in
municipalities who are involved in waste handling, but also for families and children who scavenge dump
sites based on an assessment of existing practices within the sector. A number of measures have been
proposed to mitigate the negative impact. The Ghana Environment Protection Agency (EPA) is in the
process of preparing guidelines as basis for segregation, packing, handling, storage, treatment,
transportation, disposal and monitonng of health-care waste. Upon completion of the guideline, a policy
document and a technical guideline will be prepared to complement any legislation enactment process.
With increasing activity in the area of HIIV/AIDS it is recommended that the waste management program
is designed to collaborate with the National HIV/AIDS Program as well as the Lagos-Abidjan Corridor
HIV/AIDS project when it becomes effective.
Health care waste management improvement measures include: i) regulations, guidelines or
effective means of control for the storage, handling, packaging and transporting of hospital waste in
- 32 -



Ghana; ii) all forms of liquid waste which are drained into sinks, and eventually into the sewarage system
(e.g acids and alkali) are usually neutralised before disposal; iii) Hospital and laboratory officials should
be able to indicate quantities of wastes generated; iv) containers for hazardous/infectious waste should be
properly labelled as a caution to handlers; v) most hospitals/clinics should be provided with adequate
waste treatment facilities. Amputated parts are therefore being handled by the various Waste Managment
Departments (WMD) of the Assemblies.
The only vector control activities envisaged are impregnated bed-nets. Impreganation and
re-impregnation of bednets are to be done only with environmentally-friendly insecticides (approved by
WHOPES). No indoor or outdoor spraying with any insecticide will be funded. The MOH is aware of
the new and less hazardous chemicals for the impregnation of bed nets so intended users are being better
informed. The MOH and the other agencies would also teach the proper disposal of insecticide residue
following treatment.
It is recommended that effective control of health-care waste and monitoring of facilities should
be camed out regularly, in order to maintain and improve management of the waste. Measures would be
adopted to ensure that problems and risks involved are identified while enhancing safety and preventing
the development of future problems. A list of indicators and a description of mechanisms for monitonng
the implementation of the EMP is included in the EA final report.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Environmental category and justification/rationale for category rating: B - Partial
Assessment.
Each specific facility to be rehabilitated or expanded as well as specific activities would be evaluated
individually in keeping with national environmental assessment requirements or statement to ensure that
environmental concerns have been taken into account and appropriate mitigation measures taken.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: August 2002
EA start-up date: December 2001
Date of first EA draft: January 2002
Expected date of final draft: The final draft report was cleared for disclosure by ASPEN on August
30, 2002.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The Environmental and Resettlement/Compensation Framework was circulated to stakeholders
within the Ministry and at the various levels of the Ghana Health Service as well as to research and
academic institutions. It was also sent to NGOs working on the issue of environment as well as to
development partners. A stakeholder consultation was also held to discuss the report and get comments
which have been taken into account in the final report. The Ministry will also collaborate with
institutions such as EPA, Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development, District and Municipal
Assemblies in the preparation of train the trainer activities and the implementation of a training/capacity
building program.
At the MOH level, an Environmental Health Team will be designated and will be made
responsible for policy and general guidance. Within the Ghana Health Service, units will be created to
monitor environmental management. Within regions, municipalities and districts, the day to day
administration of health care waste and environmental management will be placed under the
- 33 -



responsibility of a management committee headed by the medical officer in charge.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
6. SOCIEa:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Inequalities, based on gender, poverty and disability are key social issues that are addressed by
the POW-1I and are incorporated in its social development outcomes. Much attention has been and will
continue to be paid to the social implications of all decisions regarding the cash-and-carry (user fees) and
exemption policies.A resettlement policy framework has been prepared. Compensation and assistance
will be offered to people ( including squatters) who are affected by the Program.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The first POW identified intersectoral collaboration, building partnerships and involving other
stakeholders as a major strategy, yet not much was achieved. The 2002-2006 POW has also identified it
but went further to lay out strategies to strengthen the role of communities, civil society and
community-based organizations (CBOs) so they can support client access to services and to protect and
promote client nghts to quality health services. The MOH ran several workshops and seminars during the
development of the health sector reform strategy in which key stakeholders participated intensively. Such
consultations will continue to take place, ensuring that the views and concerns of all stakeholders are
reflected at different stages in the implementation of the program.
Participatory monitoring and evaluation will be one of the mechanisms to ensure that
beneficiaries are consulted, thereby ensuring sustainability of the program. The participatory review and
planning process, established by the MOH and involving, inter alia, other sectors, BMCs, medical staff,
NGOs, the private sector, academia, and donors, has already established participation as the norm and
this is expected to continue in the future. District level planning will be strengthened to ensure more
active participation of the district assemblies and beneficiaries at the community level.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The MOH has developed a good working relationship with civil society, demonstrated by their
active participation in the health summits. The mission sector and NGOs are true partners in the
implementation of the Ministry of Health's POW and have expressed their intention to continue to do so
with the proposed program. Contracting activities with NGOs, Community-based Organizations (CBOs),
and the private sector is included in the proposed program.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Social development outcomes will be monitored through different studies and customer
satisfaction surveys as well as through participatory monitoring and evaluation. Utilization rates of health
service by the poor will be measured by indicators dealing with their utilization of outpatient services and
of hospital services. The review process that was established during implementation of the first POW
will continue to operate and all stakeholders will participate in assessing progress that is being made in
achieving the social development outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
- 34 -



Beneficiary assessments will measure satisfaction and aspirations regarding public health, pnvate
sector, and mission health facilities.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pr ect?
7.2 Desc-be provisis m     tPeol jcy                  w   a          sTrigaf redp
Environmiental Assessonent (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)  r         Yes  a Ny
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04in4,reetleen GP 4.04)    a             Yes      w   b No
Forestry (OP 4a36, GP 4.36) R                                   Yes   No
Pest Managenient (OP 4.09)                                   ( Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                C) Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 U Yes *D No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)           o               Yes  hp No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4i37)   do                          Yes * No
Projects in InterGanal Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  an   Yes t   No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       ) Yes  ad No
7.2 Describe provistons made byd tranprecyo ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
MOH is currently preparing a bio-safety plan, including the production of technscal guidleines
and training of personnel. A resettlement policy framework has been prepared to cover any eventualities
concerning land acquisition, resettlement and compensation in cases where health facilities will be built
and where resettlement issues could arise.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the Program would be determnined by two key elements: (i) ownership, and (ii) the
availability of financial resources (including donor funds).
1- Ownership: The Ghana Health Sector Program has been designed and prepared through a partncipatory
process that included a large number of stakeholders includdng civl society, the .lssion and the private
sector. Together with the improved transparency in the planning, budgeting, implementation, reporting,
accounting, auditing and monitoring processes, the organization of annual health sector perfovlyance
reviews and other consultation mechanisms will continue to increase ownership.
2- Availability of sufficient financial resources for the sector depends mainly on: a) macro economic and
fiscal factors, b) policy decisions at the GOG level regarding allocations to the sector and c) the
continuation of the good relationship between GOG and donors.
a) Macro-economic and fiscal factors: In January 2001, the new government embarked on tight
fiscal management, including the imposition of a strict revenue based expenditure approval system
with quarterly expenditure ceilings for all Mninstries, Departments & Agencies (MI)As), and
investments being targeted in particular for cutbacks. Recently, a number of revenue enhancing
measures have been initiated and the Government has declared its intention to take full advantage of
the Highly Indebted Poor Countnes Initiative (HIPC). The debt relief would free resources for
higher spending targeted for poverty reduction. To this end the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
(GPRS) has been developed. Ghana reached the HIPC decision point in March 2002, which has
- 35 -



improved the cash flow position. The total debt relief that Ghana would receive in 2002 is estimated
at about 4.0% of GDP (249 million US$). A portion of the savings from EIPC will be used to reduce
the domestic debt stock, for which interest payments are relatively high. Since the beginning of
2001, the growth in domestic debt has slowed down and so has the rate of price level increases and
the cedi depreciation. The slowdown in growth of money supply is also promising for the future
development in inflation, which by March 2002 had been reduced to 16%. Further, the revenues
have displayed a favourable trend. The balance of payment situation continued to deteriorate,
though. It is, however, yet early to say whether these developments can be sustained and further
developed. The economy is showing some positive signs and the new government has taken some
important initiatives, but remains in a very difficult position as does the economy that remains
vulnerable to external shocks. The HLPC funding is an important step to improve the situation, but
needs to be combined with further efforts to improve the efficiency in the public administration and
to stimulate private sector development.
b) Policy decisions regarding allocations to the Health Sector: In recent years, the health sector has
benefited from more attention from the Government. The share of the total government expenditures
(all items) spent in the health sector, which had decreased from 8.2% in 1991 to a level of around
4.6% in 1994-97, was increased up to 6.9% in 2001. The MOH recurrent expenditures as a
percentage of total GOG recurrent expenditures (narrow, excl. interest), which had decreased from
11.1% in 1991 to around 7% during the period 1994-96, increased again to reach 11.4% in 2000 and
11.0% in 2001. In 2001, when the new government embarked on tighter fiscal management, the
reduction of approved allocations was by 28% overall but by "only" 19% for the health sector. The
decisions on the allocation of additional funding available through HIPC is resulting in a 27%
increase on the projected regular GOG resources for MOH. As emphasized in the GPRS, the health
sector is expected to continue to be one of the key priority sectors in Ghana. Furthermore the
Government of Ghana committed itself during the Abuja Declaration of 2001, to allocate 15 percent
of its total expenditure to health. However, the sustainability of the Program depends crucially on a
continued support to the Health sector from the GOG.
c) Continuation of the good relationship between MOHE and donors: Donor resources represent a
large share (about 36%) of the total financing of the Program. Thus it is crucial that the good
relationship between MOH and partners, in particular with the core group of partners is maintained.
This mainly depends on the willingness and capacity of MOH to maintain and further improve the
financial management system and the policy dialogue mechanisms that have been put in place. On
the other hand the donors should keep each other and the MOH informed and not be quick to take
unilateral decisions. Transparency is crucial to the success of the relationship.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Thble No. 1: Risk RatiLns
Pin$k                  Rlek Patlnn           nosh i2gEaRon lwesura
From Outputs to Objective
Insufficient political commitment and     M        Support high level policy dialogue (including
support to health sector reforms and need          poverty reduction measures)
to improve governance
Fiscal conditions deteriorate and         S        High level macroeconomnic dialogue and
Government does not sustain budget                 regular monitoring of the budget situation.
allocation to sector                               Mutlidonor budgetary support should help
reduce this risk
Intense brain drain and staff attntion    S        Close and regular monitonng on the situation.
- 36 -



reduces the implementation capacity of             Dialogue with MOH on stratgeies to reatin
the sector                                         staff. Additional technical and financial
assistance from donors to pilot more innovative
strategies
Introduction of HAART for HIV/AIDS        S         Continued dialogue on allocation of resources.
patients absorb disproportionate                    Technical assistance and implementation
resources and constrain other activities           support to the NACP in search for effective and
appropriate care and treatment strategies
Partnerships with the mission and private  M        Continued policy dialogue and donors provide
sector are slow to put in place                     assistance when needed
The sector reorganization ( MOHIGHS       S         Donors provide technical assistance when
split) creates turburlences and reduces             needed and requested. The situation will be
the implementation capacity of the public           monitored and an assessment will be done later
sector                                              during implementation
From Components to Outputs
Financial and procurement monitoring      M         Dialogue. Technical assistance if needed.
reports are not produced at all                     Disbursements are stopped until a solution is
found
Financial and procurement monitoring      S         Implementation support to prepare and
reports are not produce timely                     implement Financial and Procurement Action
plans to redress the situation. Extra technical
assistance needed
an annual procurement plan not prepared   S         Implementation support. Donors provide
timely                                             technical assistance
Agreed procurement procedures are not     M         Dialogue and continued implementation
used                                                support. regular audits conducted. Bank and
donors apply remedies in case of
imsprocurement.
Overall Risk Rating                       S         Regular monitoring of the situation.
Implementation support. Policy dialogue
including high level
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
On one hand, some donors and partners could see as insufficient the dialogue on health policies and
strategies. On the other hand, the GOG could see the donors, particularly the core group of donors,
interfering with internal affairs and reducing national sovereignty when entering in the dialogue on
resource. There has been dialogue that has generated from time to time into conflicts and this has been
the case in the past. However, MOH and partners have succeeded in maintaining and even improving
their relationship over the years. It is worth noting that the quality of relations that has been established
has resisted changes in both the ministerial team and the donor task teams.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Financing ( Grant and Credit ) will become effective after its approval by the Parliament of the
Republic of Ghana and receipt of the Legal Opinion by the Attorney General.
- 37 -



2. Otlher [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Memorandum of Undertsanding (MOU-1I) will have to be signed by MOH and Cooperating partners
before presentation of this proposed financing to the Board of Directors of the Worldbank.
Program implementation:
1- Not later that June 30 each year, the Ministry of Health shall: 1) prepare (or cause to prepare) and
submit to IDA and all its partners, the annual sector review report describing the status of core indicators
and progress made in implementation, including proposed actions to be taken in response to lessons
learned; and 2) organize a " Health Summit" including representatives of the MOH and its agencies,
other segments of the GOG, partners, mission, private sector and development partners to discuss the
review findings and endorse orientations for action for the following year.
2- Not later than October 31 each year, the Ministry of Health will submit to IDA and other partners for
their endorsement, the annual POW and MOlH draft budget for the following year.
3- Prior to the end of the Prograrn of Work (2006), the MA[inistry of Health will conduct an evaluation of
progress towards the objectives defined and will start the preparation of the 2007-2011 Program of Work.
4- Under the Prograrn, the construction of new health facilities (and when applicable the rehabilitation of
existing ones) will have to conform to the resettlement policy and appropriate measures will be taken to
mnitigate the potential environmental impacts of the activities.
Financial covenants:
1- The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to IDA adequate to reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures under the Program.
2- The Borrower shall carry out a financial management action plan satisfactory to the cooperating
partners and IDA to establish a control environment that rnitigates any fiduciary risk identified in the
Financial Management Assessment.
3- The Borrower shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) quarterly financial monitoring reports. By
December 31 of each year, the Borrower through the Auditor General shall appoint an audit frim
acceptable to the Co-operating partners and IDA to jointly audit the financial statements for tne overall
Program of Work for each fiscal year ended. The TOR for the audit shall be submitted for prior review
by IDA. The findings of the financial audit shall be provided to all cooperating partners and DDA by
October 31 of each year.
4- By or before October 31st of each year, the Borrower shall provide IDA for its review, the
procurement plan for the following. During the implementation of the procurement plan, the Borrower
shall provide IDA (and the cooperating partners) with quarterly procurement monitoring reports.
5- By December 31st each year, the Borrower shall appoint an independent firm to review the
procurement that took place during the year. IDA and the cooperating partners will agree on the terns of
reference of this review (procurement audits) and criteria for selection of the firm. The findings of the
-38 -



annual procurement audit shall be provided to all cooperating partners and IDA by June 30th each year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
2 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
S 3. The Project Tmplementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
o   The MOH 2002-2006 Program of Work together with the Common Management Arrangements
(CMA-II) were endorsed in December 2001 by all cooperating partners.
Q   The MOH Procurement Procedures Manual-PPM has been revised. The revised PPM has been
reviewed and approved by the Bank, provided some changes are incorporated before its
publication.
e   The Program of Work for 2003 has been prepared and will be submitted to the PArtners during
the Health Summit to be held on December 10-12, 2002. The corresponding Procurement Plan
for 2003 has been submitted to the Bank for review and is considered satisfactory.
*   A Financial Procedures Supplement setting out Financial Management Arrangements has been
reviewed and approved by the Bank
o   MOH has appointed (by extension of the previous contract) an audit firm to jointly out with the
Auditor general, the financial management audit for 2002.
o On November 26, 2002 MOH furnished to the Bank a letter confirming that a bio-safety plan (
as defined in the Environmental Assessment Report) is being prepared and that bio-safety
measures have already been incorporated in the Program of Work for 2003.
o   The Memorandum of Understanding ( MOU-II) was signed by MOH and all cooperating partners
on December 13, 2002.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
M 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
FI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
This project complies with all applicable policies, in particular with the policy on "Fiduciary
Arrangements For Sector Wide Approaches (SWAPs)" adopted by the Audit Committee on May 29,
2002.
~FThnoiws Decaillet              Alexandre V. Abrantes            Mats Karlsson
Tear Leader                      Sector Manager                   Country Director
-39-



OHau US M  EA.LYM Cr SECTO Rt PnrROGRA      SUPPOR      PROJEDCTD uU
Key Perlorrnarce       Data Colectlion Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives f         Endlcatnrs                                      CriUa    9          -
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Bnfdlators:         Sectol country reports:    {tcm Coal to Bank Mission)
Contribute to the elimination  No of People in extreme  GLSSS, CWIQ surveys      Stable Macroeconomic and
of hard core poverty       poverty                                               improved fiscal conditions. No
mnajor political crisis or civil
unrest
Project Development        Outcome I Impaca           Proet repot:               (fom Objectve to Coc0)
Objective:                 Wndicetors:
Improve health status of the  o Infant Mortality rate  GDHS, GLSSS, CWIQ         Strong and continued political
population while reducing      reduced from 57 to 50 per surveys, Special surveys,  support to health sector
gender, geographical and       1000 live births with  Health Informnation System  reformns, the reduction of
socio-economic disparities in  significant reduction of                          inequalities and to improved
access to health and health    disparities across regions                        governance. Policy dialogue
outcomes                                                                         with stakeholders and partners
is maintained.
o Under 5 Mortality rate  Profile of inequalties in health Other key deterninants of
reduced from 108 to 95  and health outcomes Study.  health status, ( women
live births with significant                      education, income, sanitation,
reduction of disparities                          water ...) improved (or at least
across regions                                    do not deteriorate)
° Maternal mortality is
reduced from 240 to 150
per 100,000 live births
with significant reduction
of disparities across
regions.
o Life expectancy at birth at                        Government increase budget
least maintained at 58                             allocations to the health
years                                             sector.Donor support is
sustained
Improve access to health   Utilization of health services  Annual Health Sector  Effective strategies are put in
services, quality and,     as measured by outpatient visit performance reviews, MOH  place to lirnit the brain drain
efficiency of health service  per capita and hospital  health inforration system,  and better deploy health staff
delivery, foster partnerships  admission rate as well as by  special surveys
and improve financing of the  ante-natal and post natal
health sector              coverage and % of supervised
deliveries is increased
Quality and efficiency of  Benefit incidence studies  Effective strategies are put in
health services as rrmeasured by                      place or further developed to
TB case detection rate, TB                            improve access by the poor to
cure rate, malaria case fatality                      health services.
rate for Under 5 children, EPI
coverage
The per capita public
expenditure on health is
increased up to about US$ 12
in 2006 and public
expenditure benefit more to
- 40 -



the poor
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Priority health interventions  * HIV prevalence reduced  Annual Health          * Sufficient and effective
strengthened                  to 2.6%                Sector reviews MOH            efforts are conducted
* TB cure rate increased  information and perfromance  within and outside the
from 43% to 60%        monitonng system. Special     health sector to contain
* Use of bednets increased  surveys                   the spread of the
from 10 to 56%                                       HIV/AIDS epidemic.
* Antenatal coverage                                   Effective and affordable
increased from 47% to                               strategies are defined and
70%                                                  put in place
* Supervised deliveries                              * Dialogue between MOH
increased from 44 to 50%                             and other related
* Guinea worm disease                                  institutions with
eradicated                                           stakeholders and partners
* polio free certification                             on policies and strategies
obtained.                                           is maintained. Technical
* DPT3 and measles                                     assistance is provided
coverage raised and                                  when needed
maitained at 80% or
more.
* % of FP acceptors raised
from 14% to 40%
* under five malaria case
fatality rate reduced.
* 50% increase in intake in                          * Effective partnerships
medical and nursing                                  with the mission and
schools                                              private sector are put in
place or further developed
Human resources for health  * 80% of staff receiving                           New incentive and
services developed            in-service training                              performance management
* 70% of core staff                                system put in place.
continuing to work in
Ghana 3 years after
graduation
* interregional and inter
district distribution of
staff improved.
Infrastructure and support  * Mapping of physical
services enhanced             assets completed and
infrastructure
investment-diversification
plan developed to reduce
duplication
* Community based health
centers establsihed in
deprived areas. 40% of all
new facilities developed
in 4 depnved regions
* Average transport fleet
age reduced to 5 years
- 41-



o 70% of BMCs using
private sector
maintenance
o 80% tracer drugs
available
Regulation improved        Ombudsman's office
established and 80% of
complaints handled
successfully
Organizational arrangements  0 The reorganization of
reformed                      public agencies
(MOHIGHS split)
completed.
o MOU signed with mission
sector and converted into
service agreements and
contracts.
o 50% of non essential
services contracted out.
o 0.5% of the health budget
allocated to the
innovation fund.
o % of Program recurrent
funds used by private
sector, NGOs, CSOs and
other MDAs
Health sector financing     o %of GOG budget spent   Health sector reviews. Public
imnproved                     on health              expenditure reviews
o % of GOG recurrent
budget spent on health
o % of pooled donor funds
to total donor funds (per
partner)
o % of IGF coming from
pre-payment and
comnmunity insurance
scheme.
o % of capital and recurrent
expenditure by level,
region and by source
o total amount spent on
exemption by exemption
category.
Financial management systems
strengthened
Management information
systems and perfornance
monitoring further strengthened
Links with traditional medicine o National agenda for herbal
developed                     and alternative medicine
- 42 -



developed.
* Guidelines for quality
assurance developed and
disseminated
* 6000 Traditional and
altemative medicine
practitionners trained.
Project Components/       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Year 2002                 US$ 7.5 million ( to be   Technical monitoring reports, MOH to continue to maintain
disbursed in 2003 in      Annual performance reviews, a financial management
reimbursement of expenditures Aide memoirs of the   system adequate to reflect the
incurred in 2002)         MOH/donor meetings        transactions, resources,
expenditures, assets and stores
under the program
Year 2003                 US$ 15 million            Financial monitoring reports  MOH appoint independent
financial and procurement
auditors acceptable to
co-operating partners
Year 2004                 US$ 20 million            Procurement monitoring    MOH provide annually
reports                   co-operating partners with a 3-
year rolling procurement plan
Year 2005                 US$ 20 million            Annual independent financial  MOH continue to use World
and procurement audits    Bank guidelines and
procedures for all ICBs under
the program financed by GOG
and the Health Fund.
Year 2006                 US$ 27.5 uillion
- 43 -



GNFAMA: HDEALTH S[IECT:)1R P1RO1GiRAX SiUPPO9RTF@F04E
7The lProgrenm:
In 1996, the GOG and the Ministry of Health articulated a Medium Term Health Strategy
(MTHS) to provide a framework for health sector development and a first five year program of
work-POW (1997-2001) to guide the health sector work over the period 1997-2001. The MTHS adopted
in 1996 will continue to serve as the overall policy frarmework covering all health related activities in
Ghana. Since 1998, the sector performance has been assessed annually by an independent team
composed with both national and international experts. Fourth in the series, the 2000 sector wide
performance review served as the mid term review of the Program. Together with the work done
preparing for the Ghana Poverty reduction Strategy and the Profile of Inequalities in health conducted in
2000, it provided the basis for the definition of a second 5 Year Program of Work. The 2002-2006 MOH
POW (POW-II) was presented to and endorsed by all partners on December 2001.
The POW-1[ serves as a plan for the whole sector and describes more in detail those health
activities funded through public resources, including Government budget, donor financing and Internally
Generated Funds. For the Second POW, a broader definition of the health sector has been adopted to
include government health services, traditional and non-government providers, civil society and
community groups. The programme covers both ongoing service delivery and new initiatives. The
details of the programme are expected to change from year to year as reflected in annual work
programmes and budgets guided by the policy framework of the GPRS, the revised MTHS and the
specific requirements of the POW II especially its budgetary framework. The government health sector
follows the MTEF rolling 3 year budget structure and the MITEF is the principal document specifying the
budget and activities for a given year.
The o&iective feor the period 232-2fS is to confiDnue to imnprove the lien statu s of hne
population while focusing efforts on reducing ieneuEni2es in heal1th. IFurthernnore, the GP¢.§
outlines the kfllowing key objecilves for 2CI12-2004: (i) 17ridge equity gap aR access to quality esezith
and nutrition services, (i) JEnsure sustianable finencng arrangements thait protect tEhe poor and (ni)
Enhance efficiency in service delvery.
Main Serateges:
The POW-II is built on five strategic pillars (the same as for the POW- 1):
o   To increase (geographical, financial and socio-cultural) access to health services
o   To improve qualEty of health delivery, health worker performnance and responsiveness to clients
needs,
o   To improve the eXaciency of health service delivery, cost effectiveness and planning,
management and administration,
o   To foster partmerships in improving health (with households and communities, between public
and private providers) with other ministries, departments, agencies and with development
partners.
o   To improve financing of the health sector, extending prepayments schemes to replace the "Cash
and Carry" systems, developing an appropriate policy and regulatory environment for health
insurance, and increasing public expenditure on the poor and vulnerable.
'Targets: The most important program impact, outcomes and output targets have been set for the end of
-44 -



the year 2006 as:
Maintain life expectancy at 58 years;
Reduce the infant mortality rate from 57 to 50 deaths per 1000 live births;
Reduce under five mortality from 108 to 95 per 1000 live births;
Reduce maternal mortality from 214 to 150 per 100,000 live births;
Increase DPT3 coverage from 76.3% to 95%
Increase Measles coverage from 82.4% to 95%
HIV/AIDS prevalence rate reduced to 2.6%;
TB cure rate improved from 45% to 63%;
Reduce the case fatality rate of malaria for under 5 yrs. children to 15%;
Reduce Guinea Worm cases from 7,400 to 0;
Increase ANC coverage from 47% to 70%;
IIncrease supervised deliveries from 50% to 600%;
Increase Family Planning from 25% to 40%;
Increase outpatient visit per capita from 0.49 to 0.6
Increase hospital admission rate from 34.9 to 40 per 1000.
Program description
Within the overall framework, the MOH will focus its efforts in thelO following areas:
1- Strengthening priontv health interventions: implementing a package of prionty health interventions
and re-onentating secondary and tertiary services, empowering communities, improving the efficiency
and effectiveness of health service provision and, institutionalizing quality in all health facilities.
2- Developing human resources for health services: restructuring the sector's personnel numbers,
distnbution and skill mix, developing and implementing continuous professional development programs,
decentralizing health staff management and developing performance management systems as well as
promoting collaboration between public and private sector providers.
3- Enhancing infrastructure and support services: reviewing and mapping physical assets, assessing the
recurrent costs implications of planned and ongoing development projects, developing and implementing
a Hospital Strategy, strengthening the capacity and institutional arrangements for capital investment
management, developing and implementing a new transport policy to decentralize transport management
and maintenance.
4- Fostering partnerships for health, and promoting pnvate sector participation in health service delivery:
empowering individuals, households, communities and community based organizations, building
effective partnerships with other ministries, departments and agencies, strengthening the capacity of all
levels to plan and manage inter-sectoral programs and reorganizing the sector's resource flows to support
collaboration with other sectors, communities and civil society.
5- Improving regulation: increasing consumer protection and representation, empowenng and making
more accountable the statutory bodies and modernizing legal instruments.
6- Reforming organizational arrangements: completing the reorganization of the health sector with clear
roles for MOH and the Ghana Health Service, agreeing upon and implementing new institutional
arrangements including legislative instruments, services agreements and inter-sectoral collaboration and
- 45 -



strengthening management at all levels (MOH, GHS, Teaching Hospitals, Regional and district as well
as Statutory Bodies)
7- Improving the health sector financing: Increasing real per capita expenditure on health, enhancing and
expanding pre-payment schemes, rationalizing the exemption policy and developing clear
implementation guidelines and revising the allocation formulae to include health needs, poverty and
gender issues.
8- Improving financial management systems: strengthening planning and budgeting systems for
decentralized resource utilization and management and establishing mechanisms at BMC level to
determine efficient use of resources.
9- Further strengthening management information systems and performance monitoring: developing
performance indicators and providing an evidence base for policy and practice, building capacity to
monitor contractual arrangements, strengthemng the capacity for operational research, and improving the
use of information technology.
10- Linking with traditional medicine: developing a national agenda for herbal and alternative medicine,
designing and implementing quality assurance programs and initiating training programs for traditional
and alternative medical practitioners.
IFinanicing, Resource enveRope and program b dEekary frgeos:
One of the objective for the POW-f1 is to address the issue of under-financing. Increased funding for
health is being planned along with improvements in its allocation and in the use of public resources.
IFinancing and Resouirce enveRope:
The MOH Program of Work will continue to be funded from four broad sources: (i) Government
budget, (ii) Intemally Generated Funds (IGF- user fees), (iii) the donor Health Fund and (iv) other
parallel donor financed activities ( traditional projects, earmarked funds).
The projected resource envelope for the POW-RI is set out in table no. 1 below. It is based on
projections of real GDP growth of 4-5%, inflation decreasing to single digit by 2004, projected GOG
expenditures levels, and expected external aid and income from users. The projection operates with a
high and low case scenario. The total resource envelope for the 5 year sector program is estimated to be
US$1.013 million in the low case scenario and US$1,113 million in the high case scenario.
-46 -



Table 1: Projected resource envelope for POW II (2002-2006). US$ millions.
Low Case    -          2002     2003      2004     2005     2006    Total
Total GOG              82.35   111.39   127.49   146.77    169.86   637.86
GOG regular            67.95    81.39    97.49   116.77    139.86   503.46
GOG HIPC                14.4      30        30       30       30    134.40
IGF                      15        15       15       15       15       75
External AID             60       60        60       60       60      300
total                 157.35   186.39   202.49   221.77    244.86  1012.86
High Case              2002     2003      2004     2005     2006    Total
Total GOG              82.35   111.39   127.49   146.77    169.86   637.86
GOG regular            67.95    81.39    97.49    116.77   139.86   503.46
GOG HIPC                14.4      30        30       30       30    134.40
IGF                      15        15       15       15       15       75
Extemal AID              801      801       80s      801      801     400
total                 177.35   206.39   222.49   241.77    264.86  1112.86
Source: POW II (January 2002-revised August 2002).
The resource envelope projections and the resource allocation targets presented in the POW II
(January 2002) did not take into account the additional funding made available to health due to new
initiatives like HlPC and NEPAD (New Partnership for Africa's Development). The GOG has now made
decisions on the allocation of the additional funding available through HIPC to implement the GPRS. As
agreed at the July 2002 Summit, MOH has revised accordingly the resource envelope.
The revised resource envelope basically uses a single case scenario for GOG regular resources,
maintains IGF at the current level, and maintains the low and high case scenarios of Table 1 as regards
donor funding. Furthermore, the resource envelope now includes projected amount from an additional
GOG-HIPC allocation, corresponding to a 13-15 % increase on the total resource envelope or a 27 %
increase on the projected regular GOG resources for MOH. The total proposed revised resource envelope
over five years amounts to 1,012-1,112 million US$. The projected 2006 per capita expenditure is 11-12
US$2, assuming a population of 18.4 million in 2000 (Ghana Statistical Service 2000) and a population
growth rate of 2.75 % p.a. corresponding to the target for 2001.
Government financing: The government will remain the dominant financier of the health
sector during the Program period, financing 57% of the total program budget ( 63% in the low case
scenano), contributing at least US$ 637 million over the five years. Government financial contnbutions
to the health sector are planned to increase from 7.5% of its overall budget in 2001 to 8.0% in 2006.
The recurrent budget allocation to the MOH ( items I to 3) is expected to increase from 11% of the 2001
total GOG recurrent budget up to 13% in 2006.
External Aid support: External aid will play a significant role as it is expected to finance about
36% of the POW-Il, providing about US$ 60 to 80 million annually. However, it is expected that donor
financing will contribute to a decreasing proportion of total public expenditures from about 45% in 2002
to 30% in 2006. About 55% of donor contributions are expected to be pooled into the Health Fund,
managed by MOH in parallel with the budget funds.
- 47 -



7'able 2 : . !-' lDonoir Cuqr butkims S,   - 20C
_Expeced IDanior Coantr biouns X3 -_ 2__
2002     2tllI3  26      3 2385   2035    'IPoll      %CT     pooled   %
_tote              noled
DIFIDD         12.4    12.4     12.4    12.4     12.4        62     14%       45      73%
Doxndds         8.6     8.8      8.9     9.6      9.5      45.4     10%     28.4      63%
NIL           14.47   14.47    14.47   14.47    14.47     72.35     16%     68.5      95%
W3               0     22.5      20       20     27.5        90     20%       90      100%
EU             3.55     4.9      1.7     1.7       0      11.85      3%      7.4      62%
_u__ 1F          0      3.1       0        0       0        3.1      1%        0       0%
NDli           0.25     0.8     4.66       4      2.4     12.11      3%        0        0%
BAD]EA           0      0.4      1.5     1.5      1.5       4.9      1%        0        0%
ATD13            0      1.6      9.1    17.5      3.8        32      7%        0        0%
U$AED           3.5     3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5      17.5      4%        0        0%
WHO              3        3       3        3       3         15      3%        0        0%
UNECEIF7         4        4       4        4       4         20      5%        0        0%
UFIFPA         2.06    1.63    0.98    0.595              5.265      1%        0        0%
Gavi            6.4     6.4      6.4     6.4      6.4        32      7%        0        0%
GEAIrM          1.6     2.4       3        4       4         15      3%        0        0%
GEE             0.3     0.3       0        0       0        0.6      0%        0        0%
JI[CA           1.6    1.26       0]       0        0     2.860      1%        0        0%
TotLi         61.73   91.46    93.61  102.67    92.47   441.935    100%     239.3      54%
Tairget         80       80      80       80      80        400
G&op          18.27  -11.46   -13.61  -22.67   -12.47   -41.935
Revised December 13, 2002
Note: a) DflD will provide I nullion £ annually in addition for procurement of condoms. b) EU intends to provide 50 million
EURO as global budget support, of which some may be expected to be allocated to MOH. In addiuon, EU will provide TA for the
health sector c) The contribution from GAVI would be in the form of vaccines to be supplied by UNICEF. Source. MOH.
Priivofte sp2ndlng on hzeIthn: Private users will continue to share the cost of health care by
paying for drugs and services. The Government, does however, intends to phase out the system of front
payments for drugs and supplies (the "cash and carry" system), improve and extend the exemption
scheme and to further develop health insurance. Internally Generated funds are expected to cover about
7% of the total projected financing. The exemption system put in place to protect the most vulnerable
parts of the population will be further enhanced.
Resouirce E ocotien by Mne ftenm:
The sector policy guidelines for resource allocation are to: (i) make more resources available for
the attainment of universal access to primary health services, (ii) achieve a better balance between
development and recurrent budgets, and (iii) realign existing inequalities in regional allocations.
Resource allocation targets are expressed as percentage allocation of the Program total budget, the size of
which may vary according to the resource envelope scenario.
Caopitol develoLpment: Of the total resource envelope, 21% will be allocated to the capital
program amounting to US$236 million. The share of the budget used for investments is planned to
- 48 -



slightly decrease from 22.5% to 19 % in 2006. The resource allocation within the proposed Capital
Investment Plan (2002-2006) is distributed with 59% for civil works, 25% for equipment, 11% for
transport and 5% for maintenance. The indicated resource allocation to tertiary institutions and central
administrative units amounts to 10-18 % of resources for investment, while around half of the support is
for district level institutions and below.
Table 3: Planned Allocations to Capital Investments, 2002-2006.
l   2002        2003        2004        2005       2006        Total
Investment       39.85       48.16       48.77      49.49       50.36      236.63
Total           177.35      206.39      222.49     241.77      264.86     1112.86
% investment      22%         23%        22%         20%         19%         21%
Source: Proposed revised resource envelope of July 2002 as regards total and final capital development
program (August 2002).
The proposed capital investment plan is based on the following set of guiding pnnciples:
Retention of staff through the provision of staff accommodation; Development of human resource
capacity through the rehabilitation and expansion of training schools; Reduction of geographical
inequities in accessing health care; Enhancing complementarity to avoid duplication at all levels;
Increased collaboration and partnership between Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDA's),
Development Partners and the Private Sector; and Directing adequate resources to the provision of
facilities in the deprived regions in line with the GPRSP.
In order to ensure that value for money is obtained in capital investments and the capital budget
is not exceeded due to excessive pricing, inappropriate designs or size, the MOH and the donors have
agreed upon a procedure for definition and review of capital projects. This includes an assessment of the
recurrent cost implications of investments.
Personal emoluments: In average, 32% of the total resource envelope will be allocated to
wages. The share for wages is planned to increase from 27% in 2002 to 38% in 2006 in order to recruit
and maintain the necessary staff.
Non-wage recurrent costs: In average, 46% of the total resource envelope will be allocated to
cover the costs of administration and services ( item 2 and 3), decreasing from 50% in 2002 to 43% in
2006.
Resource allocation by level of service.
Only a minor shift in resource allocation between institutional levels for non-wage recurrent
costs (item 2-3) is planned ( table 3 ). The share of resources to the district level will be maintained at
42% of the non-wage recurrent resources. A small relative increase in non-wage recurrent resources for
tertiary care will mainly be at the expense of the administration in the Headquarters of MOH and GHS.
The proposed revised resource envelope projection and resource allocation targets of July 2002, as
above, proposes a slight increase in the allocations to the district level and below, up from 42.5 % of the
budget to 43.4%, largely at the expense of the regional health services and the headquarters level.
- 49 -



Table B. Healtah ecaoer Nim-Wge Recurremn 3udget Aocation (btudge hitems 2-3),
IPerce¢nftge &str%ftlan.
ILeVeD      _            232       2113      211       21s3     2V3S
Headquarters (MOH+GHS                    16.8     16.3      16.1      16.0      16.0
+statutory bodies)
Tertiary institutions                    18.6      19.0      19.1      19.1      19.2
Regional health services                  19.8     19.5      19.3      19.3      19.0
District health services                 42.5      43.0      43.2      43.2      43.4
CHAG/Mission sector                       2.2       2.2       2.3       2.3      2.3
TOTAL                                    100.0     IC3.0     100.0     100.0     100.0
Source: POW 1 (January 2002-revised Auuust 2002).The revised resource envelope projection and
resource allocation targets proposes a slight increase in the allocations to the district level and below up
from 42.5 % of the budget to 43.4%.
The targets set for human resources for health are to increase the percentage of health
professionals with short-term placements to the north and to deprived areas to 35%; to have a 40%
change in inter-regional and inter-district distribution of key staff in favour of deprived regions and
districts, and to have a 40% change in intra-district rural/urban distribution in favour of rural areas. If
this is achieved, the distribution of wage allocations between levels should also change over the period.
Furthermore, 40% of new facilities will be developed in the three northern regions and Central Region.
No budgetary targets have, however, been set for the regional allocations of neither the personnel
emolument budget nor the investment budget.
NB:    1) The GPRS strategies to bridge equity gaps in access to quality health and nutrition services
include improved resource allocation to target poor areas and groups, as well as health worker
redistribution to deprived areas. The targets relate to a broader definition of health expenditures that
include police and military health services as well as environmental health and sanitation under the
Ministry of Local Government and the District Assemblies' Common Fund.
2) In order to monitor resource allocations to primary health care (PHC), the proportion of PHC
elements of work in each MDA has been assessed to arrive at a weighting formula for expenditures.
According to the formula used for 2001, 71% of the broad health expenditures was spent on PHC
(Budget Statement 2002).
Alocation by regions:
The three northern regions and Central region have been identified as priority areas. Overall, the
percentage of recurrent expenditure on disadvantaged districts and the northern sector should increase.
The target outlined in the Final Draft GPRS is to allocate 39% of recurrent expenditures to the three
northern and Central regions (which amount for 26.7% of total population of Ghana according to the
2000 census) by 2004 as compared to 32% in 2000.
IFrograirnm lementftion arranEgements (see also annex 6):
Rustfitutlonal arrangenments:
The MOH is in a transitional phase where the organizational set-up and the financial status of the
Ministry is being changed. The MOH will remain responsible for policy oversight, overall resource
- 50 -



allocation and financing, as well as regulation, inter sectoral collaboration, co-ordination with partners
and advocacy.
The Ghana Health Service (GHS) and Teaching Hospital Board (THB) have been established to
manage the delivery of a decentralized public service more efficiently and help separate the provision of
health services from the policy and purchasing responsibilities of the MOH. The GHS will implement
health budgets and monitor the performance of the service delivery with responsibility and authonty
being delegated to Budget Management Centers-BMCs.
Budget Management Centers are decentralized functional units with local responsibility for
planning, managing and implementing an agreed subset of the program of work within a given budget.
The MOHIGHS is currently divided into roughly 350 BMCs, out of which 292 have met the readiness
criteria and are therefore entitled to manage their funds. For BMCs that have not qualified, the
management of funds will be done at the next higher administrative level.
District Health Management Teams (DHMT) located in the 1 10 districts of the country, are
responsible for organizing the local provision of health services. They, as well as other BMCs prepare
annual plans and budgets for their areas of responsibility according to issued guidelines and budgetary
ceilings with regard to non-salary recurrent expenditures. The ten Regional Health Teams are playing an
intermediary role between the central GHS and the DHMTs, providing supervision and logistics and
organizing referral hospital care.
It is being envisaged to form, at each level, Health Committees (under the GHS) with
participation from stakeholders including District Assemblies and representatives of the civil society
(women, religious bodies...) to advise the health teams on community needs.
The MOH's Financial Controller will be responsible for all financial management related issues
The Financial Controller will be in charge of producing the quarterly (and annually consolidated)
financial monitonng reports ( also known in Ghana as Financial Statements) and of monitonng and
ensuring that eligible BMCs remain within compliance of the readiness criteria.
The MOH procurement unit will be responsible for prepanng the 3 year rolling Procurement plan
and annual procurement plans. It will be responsible for handling matters related to national level
procurement for the MOHIGHS and Teaching Hospitals, ensuring that standard bidding documents and
transparent, competitive procurement procedures are followed and adequate records on procurement
progress are maintained. The Procurement Unit will also provide training and monitor procurement done
at penpheral levels. Regional and District level procurement would be managed through each of the
Regional and District Health Management Teams.
Flow of Funds Arrangements:
Pnor to commencement of the 1st health project, all the BMCs were assessed to determine their
adequacy and capability to successfully manage funds at their level. The assessment was done by
independent financial consultants against a set of pre-determined criteria. The BMCs certified to have
adequate financial management capacity were accredited to receive, disburse and account for donor
pooled funds. Prior to the commencement of the 2nd program of work, the MOH will conduct (through
the use of financial consultants) a comprehensive re-assessment of major BMCs to ensure that their
financial management systems status are still adequate. Where weaknesses are identified, action plans
would be put in place to address them before resources are released them.
- 51 -



All BMCs operate at least 3 bank accounts for government of Ghana releases, donor pooled
funds (Health or Pooled account) and internally generated funds (IGE). The program of work (POW) and
budget for each year is agreed on in October of the previous year between MOH and all development
partners.
The MOH (HQ) operate a dollar account into which all donor contributions (from those
participating in the pooled arrangements) are paid to finance the agreed POW; a cedi account into which
transfers from the dollar account are paid; a second cedi account is used for the funds provided by GOG
to pay for service items (under the GOG budget classification) within the POW .
Under the Pooled Funds Arrangements, there are 2 parts to the flow of funds; i) funds flow from
the MOH head quarters to the BMCs; and funds flows from the World bank (and other partners) to the
MOH-HQ.
lFuids low from MO1lEE HQ to the llCs:
Based on the approved POW, budgets and quarterly cashflow plans, MOH (HQ) then transfers
funds, in cedis, directly to each BMC certified to receive pooled donor funds. Those not certified have
their funds sent to the next higher level, normally a Regional or District Health Administration (R/DHA),
with the responsibility to receive, record, disburse and account for the funds on behalf of the lower BMC.
All BMCs in a region submit their financial reports on monthly basis to their respective RHA.
The lower level BMCs such as the health centers within a district (sub-district BMCs) submit their
expenditure statements through the DHIA. Teaching and Psychiatric Hospitals submit their financial
reports directly to HQ. BMC financial reports are expected to be made up of a set of documents
including, Revenue and Expenditure Budget Status Report, Bank Reconciliation Statement, bank
statements, and a Schedule of Below The Line Items for each source.
The MOH sends additional funds to the BMCs on quarterly basis based on the original cash
budgets submitted and in line with the POW. The funds are not released strictly on quarterly basis, the
timeliness depends on a number of factors which includes:
i)     availability of funds in the donor pooled bank account;
ii)    most of the BMCs are up to date in the submission of their financial reports;
iii)   where BMCs reports submitted are not adequate, the support unit (of the Financial controller's
office) of the ministry visits the BMC and addresses the problems.
Funds flow frorm World IBnk to the MOIBI IHQ:
This support will not operate a special account and there will be no initial advance payment.
There will be one bank account ( the Health Account) denominated in US$ into which funds from the
credit account (World Bank Funds) will be paid into, together with funds from other donors/partners.
Periodic requests for funds will be made by the MORH-EHQ to the World Bank. The request shall be made
on quarterly or half yearly or from time to time, by subritting a withdrawal application duly authorized
by the recognized signatories. The withdrawal application shall be supported by the Ministry's quarterly
Financial Statements duly certified by the Financial Controller.
- 52 -



Diagram showing the Flow of funds: (Figure 1)
Ministry of                              Health Fund         Other -
Finance            Development          Development        Credits etc.
GoG funds             Partner
HPIC funds         Earmarked funds       Partners
Ministry of Health
|Ghana HealthService  |  |Teaching Hospitals           Subvene
Public institutions  institutions
l               ~~~~~~~(contracted)
BMC category            Contracted non-
- Regional Administration  - CHAG
facilities               - pnvate
- District Administration &  - others
facilities
- Sub-distnct
Planning and Reporting:
Expenditures within the health sector are incurred at each of the BMCs, which may eventually
include over 1,000 operating units at the district level (health centres and hospitals), 10 regional
hospitals, 10 regional public health offices, 10 regional and 110 district health administrations, 5 tertiary
institutions, a number of training and research institutions and more than 8 headquarters divisions.
Funds from the Health Account maintained at headquarters will be disbursed to BMCs at all
levels in accordance with approved annual plans and budgets. Planning and budgeting guidelines will be
issued to all BMCs each year. The BMCs are also given budget ceilings. The plans include a number of
targets and indicators for those related to health status, service delivery and management processes. The
BMC indicators are based on the POW n1 performance indicators, but BMCs have been given the
opportunity to include indicators that reflect the special needs of the communities in which they work.
After receiving the budget ceiling, the individual BMC makes a costed activity plan for the year and
indicates what will be the expected results and achievements concerning the different indicators. These
projected achievements are approved by the next administrative level and included in a Performance
Contract, which will subsequently be entered into by each BMC with the next higher level BMC. Cf.
- 53 -



Annex 6 for details of the yearly cycle.
The contracts are for one year and of a very simple nature. The simple design has made it
relatively easy for the staff at all levels to understand the implications and carry out the planning
exercise, thereby facilitating the rapid promotion of a culture of responsibility and accountability. In
practice the concept is, however, interpreted and implemented with some variations across regions.
Budgets, targets and plans are submitted through the system to the MOIH and aggregated. Each
BMC will be allowed some discretion to vire between non-wage recurrent budget lines, whereas the
wage budget (Item 1 Personal emoluments) is not currently decentralised to the individual BMCs. This
is expected to happen at least at the regional level during the POW HIL
The budget ceilings include the donor funds. Furthermore, the centrlly procured goods (with
some possible exceptions) will be included in the budget of the facility/level that is actually receiving it.
Regarding the rmission hospitals, similar contracts will bi entered with the appropriate level
government BMC according to a general agreement with CRAG that is being finalised.
Planning for donor earmarked donor funds will be in accordance with the CMA E Ch. 4.3 and in
accordance with the agreements with the individual donors on the use of these funds.
my Component:
Project Component I - US$ million
- 54 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GHANA: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT II
Not applicable.
- 55 -



Annen  4 Cc2a i       AnVyaiz     rimr;, tdl Ery '           .:i.
GHANiA: GHEAMT   SECTiOR PMCQHL!AbUJ SVPPOLM7 P1ROJECT GH
The economic analysis covers the following aspects: 1) linkages to the macroeconomnic situation; 2)
linkage to the Ghana Poverty reduction Strategy; 3) linkage to the CAS; 4) rationale for public
intervention and finance; 5) fiscal impact; and 6) impact of fVI/AIDS on health sector costs.
11)    Linkages lo the macroeccnocmic sunuation:
By intemational standards, Ghana GDP growth has been relatively good ( 4-5 percent per annum
on average during the last 15 years). Following the initiation of Ghana's structural reform program in
1983, economic growth was rapid (5.2% p.a.) in 1985-89. Growth became much more volatile and
exhibited a downward trend during the first half of the 1990s when the reforn process stalled. Since
then, the econornic growth displayed a rising trend with the exception of 2000, when fiscal lapses during
the election year resulted in a financial crisis and substantial exchange rate devaluation. Ghana's
economic development has been accompanied by a steady reduction in poverty. Compared with other
countries with simnilar growth rates, Ghana's poverty reduction appears quite rapid, decreasing from 52 %
in 1992 to 40 % of the population in 1999, while the economy grew by 4.3% p.a. on average. Compared
to other countries, Ghana's income inequality is low, which may explain why economic growth has such
relative large impact on poverty reduction.
On January 7, 2001, the newly elected government inherited a difficult fiscal and social situation.
Due to shortcomings in fiscal management and delays in adjusting public utility prices, the fiscal and
quasi fiscal deficit had reached an estimated 23% of GD? in 2000, while contingent fiscal liabilities
amounted to 8 percent of GDP. Both factors created the prospects of a debt trap with rising fiscal
deficits being caused by domestic debt build-up and high real interest rates.
Since then the Government has put in place a macro-economic program aimed at getting Ghana
out of its debt trap by drastically reducing government's borrowing, cutting public enterprises' deficit
and restructuring the domestic debt. As a result of much tighter fiscal and monetary policies, the
exchange rate stabilized, external reserves reached 1.5 months of imports and the domestic financing of
the budget was cut from 8 % of GDP in 2000 to 0.8 % in 2001. The new government also decided to
avail itself of the debt relief possible under the HIlPC initiative. In February 2002, Ghana reached its
HIPC decision point with a floating completion point expected to be reached by end-2003. The debt
relief provided under the HIPC Initiative would amount to an average of US$ 215 million per year in
2002-2011.
The macroeconomic outlook for the penod 2002-2006 depends crucially on the success in
generating a domestic primary fiscal surplus. Without better expenditure control-especially on the
capital budget- and improved revenue collection, stabilization will not be achieved. The 5% growth in
GDP projected is to come from improved agricultural performance, industrial recovery and continued
service sector growth.
Link to the health sector:
Total public sector health expenditures, excluding foreign financing, were US$ 4.8 per capita in
1999, and US$ 3.8 in 2000, which is low by Sub-Saharan African standards. In terms of sectoral
allocations, health received around 10% of total recurrent expenditures and 2% of total capital budgets in
the public sector in the past years. Donor support amounted to an additional US$ 2 per capita.
- 56 -



Even when imposing a strict revenue based expenditure approval system with quarterly
expenditure ceilings for all Ministries, Departments and Agencies, which implied a reduction of
approved allocations by 28% overall. The Government relatively protected the health sector from
cutbacks and its budget allocations reduced by 19% "only". These cuts, however affected the public
health services, especially in poorer regions which found themselves confronted with inadequate budgets,
especially on drugs.
In the near future, the Ghana health sector could benefit from additional resources generated by
the debt relief initiative. However, even in the most optimistic scenario, based on a real GDP growth of
5% , inflation decreasing to a single digit by 2004 and health receiving about 12-13% of total GOG
recurrent budget, the GOG expenditures on health will not exceed US$ 7 to 8 per capita in 2006. If
internally generated funds (user fees) are maintained at the current level, including the projected increase
in donor support , the total public health expenditures could reach US$12 per capita. This is just at the
level of the minimum per person needed for the provision of a minimum package of primary health care
as determined by the Africa Region policy paper - Better health in Africa in 1994 and far less from the
US$ 60 estimate given by the WHO commission on Macroeconomics and Health in 2001.
The above points to the need for continued and even increased donor support as Ghana's
economy alone is not yet able to provide sufficient revenue to finance health services at an appropriate
level.
2)     Linkage to poverty and the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy ( GPRS).
Ghana remains a poor country with a GNI per capita of US$ 340 in 2000 ( WB-2002). In
1998/1999, the mean annual per capita expenditures in the lowest quintile was 281,000 cedis as
compared to 2,293,000 cedis in the highest expenditure quintile (GLSS 1998/99). The net result is that
the poorest 20% account for only 5.7% of total consumption expenditure, while the richest 20% of the
population account for 46%. The Gini-coefficient for consumption expenditure is 0.43 and for income is
0.60, reflecting the fact that higher income groups have savings, leading to greater equality in
consumption than in income. The development in the 90s seems to have been relatively favorable with
regard to poverty reduction. The incidence of poverty decreased from an estimated 52% to 40% between
the two Ghana Living Standard Surveys (GLSS) undertaken in 1991/92 and 1998/99. The proportion of
the population living in extreme poverty decreased from an estimated 37% to 27%. This decrease in
proportion has not, however, been enough to keep pace with the population growth and in absolute
numbers more people are now living in poverty.
While the overall trend in poverty reduction is positive, the changes are very unevenly
distributed with decreases more concentrated in Accra and the Forest belt. The prevalence of extreme
poverty in the rural savannah remained above 70%, whereas it decreased from 22% to less than 5% in
Accra. Poverty is associated with residence (affecting rural more than urban, northem savannah more
than the southern forest), with gender (affecting women more than men) and with occupation
(particularly pronounced among subsistence food producers).
Poverty is exacerbated by the high rate of population growth, currently estimated at just less than
3% per annum. Despite improvements over the years, nutrition, access to health care and safe water and
sanitation are still inadequate. The general level of education remains low, with enrolment in primary
and secondary schools at 59% of the population of school-going age (GLSS 1998/99). Concerming
health, the above-mentioned 1998/99 GLSS survey found that reported illness increased rapidly among
the poor (the lowest two income quintiles) between the two surveys. Further, the poorest quintile (the
- 57 -



lowest 20%) consumed only 12.5% of health expenditures whereas the richest quintile accounted for
31 %. In part, this was because only 37% of the lowest quintile sought care when there was an ill or
injured family member, compared to 56% for the highest quintile. In both income groups, only around
half of the contacts were made to the public health sector, slightly less than half for the poorest and
slig'htly more than half for the richest. This proportion has generally decreased, but more so in the two
poorest income quintiles in which the use of public services seems to have been reduced by
approximately 25% over the seven year period. Despite some improvements, the public subsidy system
therefore remains in favour of the nchest groups.
In March 2001, the Government adopted the Highly Indebted Poor Country Initiative. A key
component of this HIPC initiative is the formulation of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy GPRS for
the period 2002-2004. Improved macroeconomic stability and the substantial external assistance
associated with the HLPC initiative provided Government with a window of opportunity for
implementing the reform agenda that it developed during the preparation of the Ghana Poverty reduction
Strategy. Overall, the GPRS provides a new vision for Ghana; emphasizing wealth creation, improved
governance, and reduce income and regional inequalities. This agenda has been translated into sectoral
strategies and programs in the GPRS. The first part of thlz CPRS (strategy and programs) has been
completed in January 2002. In February 2002, Ghana reached its decision point, and is now faced with
the task of implementing the growth and poverty reduction targets of the GPRS. The second part of the
GP-RS (costing of programs) has just been published.
The total cost of the GPRS is estimated to be US$ 5112.6 million. Allocation by the main GPRS
thematic areas are as follows: 13% for programs geared towards ensuring macroeconomic stability, 36%
for enhancing production and gainful employment whilst 42% is for enhancing human resources
development, efficient and equitable provision of basic social services. Seven percent of the total cost is
for developing and implementing special programs for the vulnerable and excluded about 3% for
pursuing and supporting activities and institutional reforms that enhance good governance. The GPRS
will be financed mainly from GOG revenues and grants including savings from the HIPC initiative. Other
sources of financing will include loans and saving from inflation-indexed government bonds and
additional donor support.
Due to resource and capacity constraints, it became necessary to prioritize the programns and
project for implementation over a 3 year period (2002-2004). Implementation of the Medium term
priority program and projects will reflect the geographic locational priorities identified in the policy
framework document. The cost of the medium term priority programs is estimated to be US$2401
million. The activities costed consist mainly of capital expenditures associated with programs and
projects identified in the GPRS.
In what regards health, the objective of the prog-am is to increase the extent and quality of health
care. The total cost of the health sector related component is US$365 million. with 1) US$102 million
allocated to activities aiming at bridging the gap in access to quality care and nutrition services, 2)
US$121.5 rnillion in ensuring sustainable financing arrangements that protect the poor and 3) US$141.5
million in enhancing efficiency in health service delivery. In addition, US$624 million are allocated to
increasing access to potable drinling water and increasing access to safe sanitation.
The MOH 2002-2006 POW is fully consistent with the Government agenda and forms an integral
part of the GPRS. It focuses efforts on reducing inequalities in health while improving the efficiency of
health service delivery, the financing of the health sector and the management of public resources as well
as by focusing on the strengthening of basic health interventions and services.
- 58 -



3)     Linkage to CAS:
The project is fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy ( CAS, # 20815 GH)
dated June 29, 2000. The focus of Bank assistance is to support the Government's development and
macroeconomic strategies and its efforts to sustain growth that brings benefits to a wider group of people,
change the role of the state (by withdrawing from activities that the private sector can do better) and
improve public service delivery and continue to improve governance while decentralizing.
The CAS specifically identifies the need to continue to provide sector-wide support to the health
sector as a strategy to assist in redefining the role of the State to enable it to more efficiently provide
public goods and services and ensure an equitable distribution of benefits.
4)     Rationale for public intervention and rmance:
Three major concerns provide strong rationale for public involvement in the health sector:
public goods, market failure and equity. Most of health interventions (such as immunization, STDs and
TB detection and treatment, malaria control, sanitation, ..) not only benefit individuals who use these
services but also the population at large. The externalities of this type of public goods provide the
rationale for public finance. Imperfect information, limited access to information and lack of knowledge
by consumers in the health field create market failure, which provide strong argument for public
regulation and intervention. From an equity perspective, it is clear that the poor, particularly those living
in deprived areas have very limited access to health services and cannot afford to pay the full cost. The
Government therefore has a role to play in providing subsidies to the needy to improve their access to
health care and protect them against catastrophic health care expenditures.
In Ghana, all the above factors are relevant and suggest that the Government needs to play a
strong role in organizing, financing and regulating the health system. The epidemiological situation is
still characterized by the predominance of communicable diseases, in particular vaccine preventable
diseases, malaria, sexually transmitted diseases, HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. The literacy rate in Ghana
is at about 50% with female literacy rate remaining relatively low at about 37%. This together with
many other factors, contribute to reduce access to appropriate information and knowledge. Publicly
organized regulation of the system as well as public support to consumer associations and communities
are needed to reduce the consequences on individuals, families and communities of the imperfect
information. The for profit private sector is concentrated in the Greater Accra region and a few main
towns. The mission sector has a wider coverage and plays an important role in the provision of health
care. However, support from abroad has significantly decreased in the past decade and mission facilities
remain under intense financial pressure, as they do not want to increase user fees up to a level
unaffordable by the poor. The Government is currently financing and will need to continue to finance a
significant part of the wage bill. It will also need to establish larger contractual agreements with the
mission sector to help them cover other running costs.
5)    Fiscal impact and risks:
The fiscal impact of the 2002-2006 Program of Work is manageable but is nevertheless
substantial and requires a strong Government commitment.
Government financial contributions to the health sector are planned to increase from 7.5% of its
overall budget in 2001 to 8% in 2006. The recurrent budget allocation to the MOH (Item I to 3) is
expected to increase from 11% of the 2001 total GOG recurrent budget up to 13% in 2006. Although in
- 59 -



the last years, the government was seen to protect the health sector more than others from cutbacks, there
is of course a risk that, due to lower economic growth, pressures and/or change in policy the Government
will not be able to provide the funding necessary for the financing of an annual program of work. This
risk would be mitigate by the development policy dialogue in place, for instance during the mmni-CG
meetings that are regularly held.
The estimated US$ 237 mnillion capital investment plan covers civil works (59%), health care
equipment (25%), transport (10%), and include as well a component (5%) to set up maintenance
workshops for transport and medical equipment in four areas. The civil works sub-component is mainly
focused at the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing facilities and training institutions, the construction
of small scale health centers and staff acconmmodation. The plan does not envisage the construction of
large hospitals, only the construction of 6 new district hospitals and the rehabilitation of some blocks
within the tertiary hospitals. As this civil works component focus on rehabilitation, its recurrent cost
implications (estimated to be at about US$ 10-15 million if fully implemented) though not negligible and
appear to be manageable.
As during the first program, particular attention will be paid to procurement procedures and
should therefore result in greater value for money for both civil works and goods procured. The program
will help continue to improve financial management, both the national and foreign financial resources
and increase transparency and accountability of government operations. All these efforts are expected to
result in better use of public resources.
6)     Imnpact of IHEIIV/ARIDS on health sector costs.
Compared to East and Southern Afnca, the epidemic in Ghana is still at a fairly low level with an
HIV sero-prevalence rate estimated at 3% in the general population. There are however higher reported
levels in some specific groups (17% among STI patients, 23% in hospitalised TB patients at Korle But
hospitals and up to 82% among commercial sex workers in Accra/Tema). About two-thirds of the
reported AIDS cases have been females, and the peak ages for females (15-34 years) are much younger
than the peak ages for males (30-39 years).
The Ghana AIDS Commission (GAC) estimates that the national sero-prevalence will rise from
3% to somewhere in the range of 4 to 9% in 2014, depending on the efficiency of control measures. At
the current rate of infection, the GAC estimates that by the year 2CO5, 1.2 million people will be living
with HIV. It is estimated that Ghana had about 90,000 AIDS cases in 2002.
The National AIDS Control Programne (NACP) projects that by 2014, AIDS will be responsible
for 28% of all deaths; no other single cause will come c'lose to being responsible for so much mortality
among Ghanaians. The NACP also anticipates that there will be 200,000 orphans by the year 2004 and
up to twice that number by 2014.
The potential devastating impact on the econorry and the fabric of society makes HIiV/AIDS the
single most important issue in the years to come. The epidemic will also significantly affect the health
sector as i) it will substantially increase the number of people seeking services, ii) health care for AIDS
patients is more expensive than for most other conditions, and iii) it will affect the ability of the MOH
and partners to deliver services, as health service providers themselves contract I-BY leading to increased
absenteeism, reduced work performance and death of skilled workforce. As turn over rates increase,
returns to investments in formal training will even be lower than in the past.
In 1999, estimates from facilities in Accra indicated that the average cost for caring for AIDS
- 60 -



patients was ranging from US$100 to US$260. This of course did not include neither the cost of viral
load deterrmnation (ranging between US$85 and 200) and CD4 counting (US$20 to US$ 50 per exam)
nor the cost of treatments for major opportunistic diseases and antiretroviral drugs. Furthermore, if the
price of ARV is maintained close to the production cost (at about US$350), the cost of enlarged package
of care to a person living with AIDS could range from US$600 up to US$900.
Even in a scenario where only 25% of the AIDS cases seek in patient care and are provided a
low level package of care (US$100), the demands on public health expenditures would increase by about
US$6 million per annum. If these patients receive an enlarged package of care (at US$250), the entire
health sector budget (including donor funds) will be just enough to cover the cost in 2006. If a full
package, including ARV drugs at the production cost, is delivered, it would cost about US$450 million in
2005, 3 times the total health sector budget.
The HIV/AIDS epidemic has recently attained more attention from government. The conceptual
transformation from looking at HIV/AIDS as a separate disease problem to seeing it as a cross-sectoral
social issue has been slow. The GAC was created in 2000 and Cabinet approved of the formation of the
Ghana AIDS Commission in May ll, 2000. The Comnission was inaugurated September 14, 2000.
Legal status was gained in December 2001 by ACT 613 of the Parliament of Ghana, and recently a
comprehensive plan including budgeted sectoral plans has been issued. Continued increase and visible
commitment from the highest political and societal levels is crucial. This also applies to mainstreaming
HIV/AIDS issues into all activities within the health sector instead of looking at it as the sole
responsibility of the NACP.
The GAC strategy for HIV/AIDS for 2001-2005 is estimated to cost about US$304 Million. Out
of this , more than half (US$160 mllion) is allocated for health sector related interventions. One of the
other largest categories of funding is the District Response Initiative (DRI), which is to be implemented
by the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MOLGRD), which has a budget of US$98
Million. This funding is intended to support development, implementation and monitonng of Distnct
Strategic Plans for HIV/AIDS in all 110 districts. The rest of the GAC multi-sectoral plan is budgeted
and to be implemented by 1 1 other key ministnes of government.
The proposed interventions of the MOH in the area of HIV/AIDS may be grouped as a)
Prevention of new infections (Health promotion, Condom promotion, Improve STI management,
Voluntary counselling and testing, Ensure blood safety, Workplace programme (within the health sector),
and Reduction in nosocomial infection (transmission from infected to caregivers)); b) Care and support
for infected and affected people (Home based care, Care of PLWHAs (in health units), Laboratory
support, and New services (HAART, others); and Monitoring and evaluation to allow planning for and
mitigation of impact (Surveillance, Research).
The MOH strategy on HIV/AIDS, is presently budgeted at US$ 160 million, which represent
already about 14% of the total planned cost of the MOH Program of Work. Out of this budget, 70%
(US$112 million) have been set aside for the introduction of ARV drugs. Although this is already a
considerable budget, it will not allow for treatment for most of the AIDS patients and care for most of the
H1V+ cases. Therefore the need to continue to make a lot of efforts on prevention and to work with the
MOH towards the definition and implementation of equitable policies and cost-effective strategies.
- 61 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GHANA: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT 11
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD .
Year 1| Year 2      Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6    Y Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
.Total Financing            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 7.5       15.0      20.0      20.0      27.5      0.0       0.0
Government              82.3      111.4     127.5     146.7     169.8      0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Provinclal            0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers           72.5       65.0      60.0      60.0      52.5      0.0       0.0
User Fees/BeneficIaries    15.0      15.0      15.0      15.0      15.0      0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing  177.3     206.4     222.5     241.7     264.8      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-62 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
GHANA: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT 11
Procurement
Ghana's Procurement Environment
1.     The World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Reports (CPAR) in 1985 and 1996, a
consultant report by Mr. Gosta Westring's in 1997 and a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR)
in 1998 provide detailed inforrnation on Ghana's procurement environment. These reports cite: (i) lack of
a comprehensive legal framework; (ii) lack of a uniform and codified procurement procedures and
regulations; (iii) weak capacity of procurement staff; and (iv) loose institutional and organizational
arrangements for collective decision making in awarding contracts, as major factors contributing to
weaknesses in the public procurement practices. The reports however were not able to quantify the public
procurement by various methods and by institutions. Some of the unacceptable features in the current
public procurement practices highlighted in the reports are: (i) extensive use of sole method for selection
of consultants; (ii) extensive and repetitive use of shopping procedures, often including same firms; (iii)
unclear procedures for opening of bids and criteria for bid evaluation and contract award; and (iv) post
contract negotiations. The reports recommend a comprehensive procurement reform for Ghana. This
recommendation was also endorsed in the 1999 CDF initiative document for Ghana.
2.     Ghana's procurement procedures and regulations are scattered in vanous legal documents and
circulars, which are often not clear, contradictory and subject to misinterpretations. There are no
mechanisms for monitoring procurement and for dealing with complaints. The current procurement
system does not guarantee economy, efficiency and transparency in public procurement. It is a fair
conclusion that the Government does not have a comprehensive procurement code for the procurement of
goods, works and services by Government ministries and agencies. For Donor-financed projects, for
works and goods contracts below ICB thresholds and for selection of consultants, most entities follow the
Bank's guidelines as the official procurement procedure. The Govemment has realized there is a need for
the country to review and reform its public procurement practices. The reformed practices would entail
adoption of rationalized and codified public procurement procedures and regulations, applicable to all
public procurement entities and ensure value for money. The purpose of the public procurement reforms
is therefore to streamline the procedures and regulations for procurement of goods, works, and services,
and establish an effective monitonng system in order to ensure proper utilization and developmental
impact of public resources.
3.     The on-going procurement reforms are financed by the Public Finance Management Technical
Assistance Project. (Cr. 2925). In 1999 the Government established, in the Ministry of Finance, a
Procurement Policy Oversight Group (PPOG) to oversee the process of the preparation and
implementation of public procurement reforms in Ghana. The PPOG prepared a TOR for preparng a
Procurement Reforms Proposal and selected consultants to prepare it. In order to ensure that the PRP is
not prepared as a desk exercise, the TOR required the Consultants to work in close liaison with
stakeholders in public and private sectors, paying due attention to consultation, participation and
ownership. A draft Public Procurement Law has been prepared and it is expected that the bill will be
considered by parliament in October 2002. The draft law is based on the UNCITRAL Model Law on
Procurement of Goods, Construction and Services (1994). The draft law includes all the features of good
public procurement practice i.e. (i) effective and wide advertising of upcoming procurement
opportunities; (ii) public opening of bids; (iii) pre-disclosure of all relevant information including
transparent and clear bid evaluation and contract award procedures; (iv) clear accountabilities for
decision making; and (v) an enforceable right of review for bidders when public entities breach the rules.
- 63 -



4.    In the absence of a national procurement code, the Program of Work (POW) for 1997-2001
developed a scheme to strengthen the procurement environment and procurement management in MOH.
Progress made dunng the period includes (i) the establishment of a Procurement Unit (PU) in MOH with
competent staff; (ii) the provision of procurement TA to the PU; (iii) the preparation and launching of a
procurement procedures manual (PPM) to guide procurement in the public health sector; (iv) the
establishment of procurement committees in the BMCs; (iv) the training of key BMC staff in the use of
the procedures in the manual; and (v) carrying out annual independent procurement post reviews. The
PPM will be updated for the 2002-2006 POW. Further, it is anticipated that the ongoing preparation of a
new GOG procurement law will eventually take over the role of the current MOHIGHS procurement
guidelines.
Use of 3ank Guidelines
5.     All works, goods and services to be financed under the POW will be procured in accordance with
the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the Co-operating Partners and the procedures
stipulated in the updated PPM. The procedures in the PPM are consistent with Bank Procurement and
Consultants Selection Guidelines. The Government and the Development partners have agreed that all
works and goods contracts procured under ICB procecures would be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January, 1999. Consultants will be selected in accordance with
the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and
as revised September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002.
6.     The most current versions of Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all
ICBs and with appropriate amendments for all NCB for works and goods. The most current version of the
Bank's Standard Request for Proposals would be used for all assignments to be carried out by consulting
firms. Less competitive bidding and selection procedures should not be used as an expedient to by-pass
more competitive methods and fractioning of large procurements into smaller ones should not be done
solely to allow the use of less competitive methods.
Non-ICB Plrocuremernt inludlng Nafltcnn  Compeftive Igd g
7.     All procurement on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be awarded in
accordance with the following procedures:
o      Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Ministry of Health, as
amended from time to time, shall be used for bidding.
o      Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
o      No special preference shall be accorded to any national bidder, either for price or for any
other terms and conditions, when competing with foreign bidders, State-owned enterprises, or
small-scale enterprises.
o      Clear instructions shall be included in the bidding documents for processing bids and
opening of bids.
o      Bidding documents (in the Instructions to Bidders) shall clearly stipulate criteria for bid
evaluation and contract award.
O      Except with the prior concurrence of the Co-operating Partners, there shall be no
negotiation of price or unit rates with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
o      Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the
- 64 -



Co-operating Partners: (1) for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and
(ii) for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period (such concurrence will be
considered by the Co-operating Partners only in cases of force majeure and circumstances
beyond the control of the purchaser or employer).
Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Co-operating
Partners. The system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or "bracket" of prices
shall not be used for the Program of Work.
*      The two- or three- envelope system will not be used.
Advertising
8.     A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in the UN
Development Business as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis
and would show all outstanding ICB and all consulting services estimated to cost US$200,000 or more.
Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for contracts to be procured under ICB and NCB
procedures and for consultant contracts with an estimated cost of US$ 200,000 or more to obtain
expressions of interest (EOI) prior to the preparation of the shortlist SPNs will (a mmnimum) be published
in a newspaper of wide national circulation. Consultant contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or more
will be advertised in Development Business. Sufficient time would be allowed (not less than six weeks
for ICB and not less than 30 days for NCB and 14 days for EOI) to allow adequate time for bidders and
consultants to obtain documents and respond appropriately.
Procurement Capacity
9.     Although there has been significant improvement, some deficiencies still persist in procurement
practice in MOH. These are: (i) lack of procurement strategies and plans in the decentralized BMCs; (ii)
poor record keeping in BMCs, (iii) splitting of contracts; (iv) frequent use of single source procedures;
and (v) absence of sanctions against officials who flout the procedures in the PPM.
10.    Procurement procedures have been developed and a procurement unit is established within the
MOH responsible for ensuring that standard bidding documents and transparent, competitive
procurement procedures are followed. The procedures for procurement are outlined in the CMA H Ch.7
and further detailed in the Procurement Procedures Manual (PPM). A system of yearly procurement
audits for all procurements (not only Health Account) has been in place since 1998. As a general rule,
procurement planning and processing for works, goods and services is the responsibility of the BMCs.
However, procurement of strategic and large value items of goods and services will be managed by the
Procurement Unit, Ministry of Health on behalf of the BMCs. In the case of works, procurement
planning and processing for GHS is the responsibility of the Estate Management Unit (EMU) in GHS,
while for other BMCs, the Capital Investment and Development Unit in MOH will be responsible for
procurement planning and processing of large works contracts. All procurement processing by Estate
Management Unit and the Capital Investment and Development Unit is done in collaboration with the
Procurement Unit, Ministry of Health All other procurement will be the responsibility of the
decentralized accred-ted BMCs with each accredited BMC responsible for their own procurement. The
accreditation of the BMCs is carried out by independent consultants and the criteria for accreditation
includes demonstrated procurement capacity. Entities which do not have adequate capacity in
procurement and financial management will be serviced by the accredited BMC at the next level. The
findings of the capacity assessment indicate a "medium risk" for this project.
11.    Civil works will be in accordance with the capital programme included in the POW II and
- 65 -



detailed in the yearly POWs. Planning, procurement and implementation of capital projects (civil works)
will ensure analysis of need, affordability, recurrent cost and personnel implications of projects,
competitive procurement and effective supervision of construction/implementation.
12.   The 2002-20C6 program will focus on (i) enhancing value for money (VEM) in the health sector
by ensuring compliance with procedures in the PPM and the Public Procurement Act once it is
promulgated; (ii) promoting increased harmonization of procurement arrangements by partners in the
health sector and reducing earmarked procurement; (iii) further strengthening of PU in MOHIGHS to
guide and manage the essentially decentralized procurement process; (iv) increased capacity building and
monitoring of procurement practice in all BMCs especially those with large expenditures; (v)
strengthening the Estate Management Unit (EIVIU) to guide and manage works projects; and (vi)
improving the independent procurement reviews.
lfrocuremein  anDs, Scop°e of Pir¢ciremeina and Prsirement Methods.
13.   The POW for 2002-2006 provides a framework for which development partners including IDA
will provide support. By appraisal, the MOH will prepare a detailed annual Procurement plan based on
the first year's POW. Three months prior to the start of each year, the MOH will submit to Development
Partners an annual POW which will be reviewed jointly by development partners, which will form the
basis for preparing a Procurement Plan (PP) for the following year showing contract packages, and for
each package its estimated cost, procurement method and processing times for key activities till
completion. The development partners have agreed that the Bank will take the lead on procurement
issues and therefore the Bank will review the procurement plan on behalf of all the partners. Two
months prior to the start of each subsequent fiscal year, MOHE will submit the up-dated versions of the
GPP in respect of the following year. Every six months, MOH will submit to IDA a procurement
monitoring report and contract expenditure and physical progress report as part of the Financial
Management Report (FMR). The scope of procurement will be defined in the three-year rolling POWs
and the thresholds for various procurement rnethods are stipulated in Table B.
IIDA Revuew
14.   During POW I, a system was established where IDA conducted on behalf of all development
partners, prior review of contracts above certain limits. The system will continue under the new POW.
The Prior Review Thresholds are indicated in Table B below.
15.   Some donors and financiers would continue financing parts of the programme through their own
procedures when not financed through the Health Account or Aid Pooled Account, though all items and
financing would have to adhere to the annual health sector expenditure programme, and the quantities,
specifications and delivery schedules would be decided by the MOH. These practices are expected to be
phased out over time.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Not applicable.
- 66 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
* Contract Value              ,               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Priortefriew
,Expenditure Category.  ,(US$ thousands)             Method               (US$:illions)r,
1. Works                     >= 2,000,00               ICB                 All Contracts
50,000 - < 2,000,000          NCB            Contracts over $ 1,000,000
< 50,000            Price Quotations             None
2. Goods                     >=400,000              ICB/LIB/UN             All Contracts
30,000 - < 400,000        NCB/LIB/fUN                None
< 30,000               Shopping                  None
3. Services             200,000 or above firms         QCBS                 All contracts
>=100,000- < 200,000      QCBS/LCS/SFB                None
firms Below $ 100,000  QCBS/LCS/SFB/SBCQ               None
firms                 Individual       Contracts above $ 100,000
All Values Individuals
4. Miscellaneous                                          __
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Note: All Single Source, LIB contracts; and procurement from UN agencies subject to IDA prior review
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procuremnent Adviser for guidance.
- 67 -



(HWAMA HEALYN BECYOR PFROGRAR SUPPOR-C P42;W
Financizl Managemeun
1. Sumnary off the Fiancial  nagement AssessmenmI
Executve Sujmmary
The objective of the Financial Management Capacity Assessment was to determine whether the
Ministry of Health (MOH), which is responsible for the financial management under the Second Health
Sector Support Project, has adequate and acceptable financial management capability to undertake the
assigned tasks. The assessment included the review of financial management arrangements, the
Ministry's accounting system of recording and reporting, internal controls, flow of funds and auditing
arrangements. The review also covered the adequacy and quality of accounting staff working in the
Ministry.
During the implementation of the 1st POW, the Ghana Health Service and Teaching Hospitals
ACT 525 of 1996, was not fully operational. The separate roles of the Ghana Health Service (GHS) and
the MOH envisaged under the ACT was therefore not operational. It meant that MOH was responsible
for both policy, resource mobilization and health service delivery and as a result had one finance unit
with overall responsibility for financial rnanagement. The Government has now completed the
establishment of the key statutory bodies required under the ACT, and the ACT has become fully
operational. The MOH now becomes responsible for Policy whilst GHS is responsible for health service
delivery. Within this framework only slight modifications have been made to the existing financial
management set up to ensure that the strength and integrity of the systems are preserved.
The MOH has set up a finance division within the Ministry, which is headed by the financial
controller (FC) and is assisted by a team of qualified and partly qualified accounting staff. All the staff
are from the pool who worked on the 1997-2001 POW under the 1st project. This division will have
overall responsibility for all resources that come to the health sector to support the 2nd POW.
The finance division will manage the separate bank accounts under the Health Account. The
finance division will also submit request for funds or withdrawal applications to the World Bank and
other participating donors, oversee the disbursements of funds to various BMCs, and the preparation of
the financial reports under the POW. The division will also prepare the quarterly financial monitonng
reports and the rinistry's financial statements and have them audited.
The accounting system of the Ministry is documented in an accounting procedures manual, the
Accounting, Treasury and Financial Reporting Rules and Instructions (ATF Rules). All the accounting
staff have been trained on the use of the Ministry's accounting manual and have worked under the 1st
Program of Work (POW).
The Ministry has also set up an internal audit unit. The unit is headed by an internal auditor,
who is a qualified accountant. The unit is relatively new and is now operational at the HQ, and teams are
sent periodically to BMCs to carry out internal audit functions and report to the Minister, for the Mhnistry
and the Director General, for the GHS. The unit has also got an audit manual including audit program to
guide its operations and work. This unit will be further strengthened to make its work more effective as
one of the key internal control feature within MOB financial management system.
-68 -



Conclusion
The MOH has the accounting system documented in a manual, the ATF hand book, trained and
experienced accounting staff, adequate reporting systems and auditing arrangements and have previous
expenence in managing Bank funded project. Based on the assessment and all information gathered, the
financial management system of the MOH, meet the minimum requirements of the Bank.
Although the financial management systems meet the minimum Bank requirements, there is need
for the Ministry to detail out the funds flows arrangements and the contents and formnat of the quarterly
financial monitoring reports as a supplement to the ATF rule book.
Country Issues
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has just been conducted for Ghana. This
document clearly identifies the main accountability issues in Ghana, which include;
I)     Fragmented legal framework and lack of enforcement of existing penalties for noncompliance;
ii)    Ineffective and inefficient internal auditing functions;
Iii)   Weak human resource capacity because of poor public sector remuneration;
iv)    Weak payroll and pension control systems;
Summary of Risk Analysis
Risk                           Risk Rating      Rlsk Mitigation Measure
Inherent Risks:                                 Govemment is modernizing its systems. In
Country                                       addition it needs to institute measures that
a) Non compliance of statutory                  ensure the update and enforcement of
regulations and non enforcement of    S         penalties for non compliance.
penalties.
b) Inadequacy of legal framework                Government is to seek donor assistance to
to regulate intemal audit functions   H         address this weakness. More work needed
in country.                                     here.
Overall Inherent Risk                 S
Control Risk
Ministry of Health
Staffing of the MOHIGHS                         Agreements should be concluded to
permanently transfer accounting staff from
a) Frequent transfers of accounting   M         the controller and accountant general's
staff of the MOH HQ and at the                  department to GHS. In the case of the MOH
various BMCs.                                   agreements should be reached to maintain
the key staff over the period of the program
b) That trained staff will leave                The monitoring and support unit which is in
government services altogether and              place will ensure that all new staff are
new staff appointed.                            trained before they assume office.
Funds Flow
Delays in releasing and accounting              Training of accounting staff and actions to
for funds transferred to BMCs.        M         strengthen the financial management system
will continue. Effective reporting
- 69 -



mechanisms to be monitored and enforced.
Interna Audit
No professional intemal audit (IA)               The MOH has set up an IA unit with
function. Govermment IA is limited     S         assistance from donors. Key staff in place.
to pre-auditmg, with no added value.             IA manual is in place and training of other
staff is on going to make the unit fully
operational.
External Audit
Likely project audit reports will be             TOR and selection of auditors for the year
submitted late.                        M         following will be completed by end of 2nd
quarter of year to provide all adequate timne
to meet submission deadline. Since audit is
for whole ministry, subrnission deadline will
be set at end of September.
Reporting and Monitoring
Delays in the submission of                      Continue to provide assistance to MOH
Ftnancial monitoring reports.          M         finance team to enable them carry out their
duties effectively. Donor joint monitoring
team to carry out quarterly field visits to
independently monitor financial
performance of BMCs.
Information Systems
Computerized systems are not fully               Government computerization program is
in place. The rmnistry operates both   M         back on track and MOH is listed as one of
manual and automated systems.                    the pilot mninistries. The MOH will continue
MOH is to benefit from                           to use both manual and some automation for
computenzation of governent                      its financial data processing. All staff have
accounting system which has                      been trained, and a program is in place to
delayed.                                         train new staff when ever they join.
Overall Control Risk               M
Strength and Weaknesses
The significant strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the MOH financial management system
include:
i)     the presence of a qualified financial controller as head of the finance and accounts unit and his
team of accounting staff (both qualified and part qualified);
ii)    the presence of an accounting and financial procedures manual known as Accounting, Treasury
and Financial Reporting Rules and Instructions (ATF Rules), which was used to manage the first health
project; and
iii)    accounting staff have all received training in World Bank disbursement procedures, key financial
management principles and in the ATF.
The key weaknesses that need addressing to ensure continuous satisfactory financial management system
include:
i)     the inadequacy of the current accounting software being used by the accounting unit;
- 70 -



ii)   the lack of permanent accounting staff for the Ministry;
Ili)  the lack of fully operational internal audit functions;
Iv)    poor linkages with procurement record systems; and
v)    lack of basic procurement training for accounting staff.
Implementing Entities & Arrangements
Dunng the implementation of the first program, the MOH had overall responsibility for health
policy, service delivery and financial management. Although the Ghana Health Service and Teaching
Hospitals ACT 525 established in 1996, required that, the health service delivery be provided by the
Ghana Health Service (GHS), this was not possible because the key bodies required under the ACT were
not fully operational.
During that penod, and the implementation of the 1st POW from 1997-2001, the MOH had one
accounting and finance unit headed by a financial controller. He was assisted by a chief accountant and a
team of qualified and partly qualified accounting staff. The Ministry had overall responsibility for
financial management and to make its work effective, its accounting and finance unit had three functional
sections within it;
i)    the reporting and analysis - responsible for review and analyzing reports from all the BMCs and
feeding them into the national accounts. They also determined the adequacy or otherwise of reports
received from the BMCs;
ii)    national accounts - responsible for the preparation of the ministry's financial statements; and
iii)   support and supervision units - responsible for providing training support to weak BMCs and
financial monitonng.
The Government has completed the establishment of the key statutory bodies required under the
ACT, and the ACT has become fully operational. The Ministry now becomes responsible for sector
policy formulation, ensuring equity and maximum outcomes, coordination of programs for consistency at
strategic level and mobilization of resources. The Ghana Health Service (GHS) now has the
responsibility for health service delivery at the primary/ambulatory and secondary levels. GHS also has
the responsibility of ensuring that the costs of these services are beneficial to the consumer. They will
negotiate effective prices on behalf of consumers with institutions outside and within the service. The
Teaching Hospitals will provide tertiary services with clearly defined outputs, with clear modalities for
receiving referral cases from the other levels of care services.
In the light of these changes, financial management systems has been designed to facilitate these
arrangements with effective flow of resources for the implementation of the 2002-2007 POW. The MOH
has established a new finance division (within the Ministry) with the overall responsibility for all
resources that come to the health sector to support the POW. The division is headed by the financial
controller with a team of qualified and partly qualified accounting staff. All the staff are from the pool
who worked on the1997-2001 POW under the 1st project. Two out of the 3 key functional sections
under the financial controller's office under the 1st arrangements namely; i) the reporting and analysis
and ii) national accounts; will remain with the Ministry's newly created finance division. The 3rd
section, the support and supervision section will be located with the GHS - HQ.
The finance division will manage the separate bank accounts under the Health Account. The
finance division will also submit requests for funds or withdrawal applications to the World Bank and
other participating donors, oversee the disbursements of funds to various BMCs, and the preparation of
- 71 -



the financial reports under the POW. The division will also prepare the ministry's financial statements
and have them audited.
The MOH (HQ) will operate (1 or 2) dollar special account(s) into which all donor contributions
(from those participating in the pooled arrangements) are paid to finance the agreed POW; a cedi account
into which transfers from the dollar account are paid; a second cedi account which is used for the funds
provided by GOG as its contnbution to the POW.
The GHS-HQ as an autonomous service will have a finance directorate to be headed by a
Director of Finance. The chief accountant of the Ministry has been appointed to this position. The
Director of Finance of GHS is assisted by a team of qualified and partly qualified accounting staff. The
staff are from the pool who worked on the 1st project. GHS-HQ is a BMC in its own right as defined by
the concept of cost centers. In addition to its own responsibilities, the finance directorate will have
additional responsibility of ensunng that financial reporting by BMCs under the GHS is adequate and
timely.
It is expected that out of the Ministry's total BMCs of 368, 343 will belong to GHS. In this
regard, the GHS-HQ will need a strong finance team to manage the financial resources and provide
needed support and training to the BMCs under it. The support and supervision (SAS) section has
therefore been located at the GHS-HQ to provide periodic specific training and support to BMC
accounting staff under GHS. Based on adequacy or otherwise of reports received by the finance division
of MOH, the financial controller can request the SAS of GHS to visit a particular BMC to assist and
upgrade the skills of their accounting staff.
The MOH including the GHS and Teaching hospitals shall use a uniform accounting system as
documented in the Accounting, Treasury and Financial Reporting Rules and Instructions (ATF Rules).
The manual or hand book was the same used for the 1st project. A supplement which documents the
detailed flow of funds arrangements and contents and format of the financial monitoring reports (FMR)
to be used for disbursements would be prepared as an addition to the ATF hand book.
Funds Flow Arrangements
All BMCs will be re-assessed to determine their adequacy and capability to successfully manage
funds at their level. The assessment will be done by independent financial consultants against a set of
pre-determined criteria. The BMCs certified to have adequate financial and procurement management
capacity will be accredited to receive, disburse and account for donor pooled funds or funds from the
health account.
All BMCs will operate at least 3 bank accounts for government of Ghana releases, donor pooled
funds (Health Account) and internally generated funds (IGF). The program of work (POW) and budget
for each year will be agreed between MOH and all development partners in October of the previous year.
Based on the approved program of work, budgets and quarterly cashflow plans, MOH (HQ) will
write out cedi cheques for individual certified BMCs , directly to autonomous BMCs. For BMCs under
GHS all checks will be sent to GHS-HQ with detailed listing, who will in turn forward these checks to
the beneficiary certified BMCs. Those not certified will have their funds sent to the next higher level,
normally a District or Regional Health Administration (DHA or REA), with the responsibility to receive,
record, disburse and account for the funds on behalf of the lower BMC.
- 72 -



All BMCs in a region submit their financial reports on monthly basis to their respective RHA.
The lower level BMCs such as the health centers within a district (sub-district BMCs) submit their
financial reports through the DHA. Teaching and Psychiatric Hospitals who receive their funds directly
would also submit their financial reports directly to MOH-HQ.
Each BMC's financial report is expected to be made up of a set of documents including,
Revenue Budget Status and Expenditure Budget Status Reports, Bank Reconciliation Statement, bank
statements, and a Schedule of Below The Line Items for each source of funds.
The MOH sends additional funds to the BMCs on quarterly basis based on the original cash
budgets submitted and in line with the program of work. The timeliness of subsequent quarter releases
depends on a number of factors which includes;
i)     availability of funds in the donor pooled bank account;
ii)    whether a BMCs is up to date in the submission of their financial reports;
iii)   where BMCs reports submitted are not adequate, the support unit (of the Financial controller's
office) of the mmnistry has visited the BMC and addressed the problems.
Funds flow from World Bank to the MOH HQ:
No IDA special account will be established and there will be no initial advance payment. There
will be one bank account denominated in US$ into which funds from the credit account (World Bank
Funds) will be paid into, together with funds from other donors/partners.
IDA funds are planned, in pnnciple, to be disbursed into the Health Account on a quarterly
basis. However, this periodicity could be revised and IDA direct disbursements into the health Account
used as a " swing payment" to help manage cash flow variations of the MOH. The MOH will also have
the option to request part of the credit to be drawn down using the Bank's direct payment and special
commitment procedures. Although it is not possible to determine ex-ante the exact portion of the Credit
that may be used under this disbursement procedure, it is expected that part of the annual credit funds
will be used to assist MOH with 1) advance payments to the UN agencies for the supply of vaccines,
drugs, medical equipment and vehicles and, 2) direct payments to international suppliers for major
procurement for MOH carried out using ICB procedures. Penodic requests for funds will be made by the
MOH-HQ to the World Bank. The request shall be made by submitting a withdrawal application duly
authorized by the recognized signatones. The withdrawal application shall be supported by the
Ministry's quarterly Financial Monitonng Reports (FMRs) duly certified by the Financial Controller.
Reporting and Monitoring: The Bank has introduced a new initiative, the Financial Management
Initiative (FINM). FINMI requires projects to prepare quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMRs) in
the areas of finance, procurements including contract details and project progress.
The Ouarterlv Financial Reports would consist of Sources of funds and their Uses of Funds,
statement of Uses of Funds by Project Components and Activities, Special Account Reconciliation
statement and a six months Project Cash Forecast where need be;
Ouarterly Proiect ProRress Report would consist of Output Monitoring Report on contract
Management and on Unit of Output by project activity;
- 73 -



Ouarterly Procurement Management Report; would consist of procurement process monitoring
for goods and works and that for consultants' services, and contract Expenditure reports for goods, works
and consultants' services.
The Ministry currently produces Ministry wide financial statements of several reports, and these would
be modified to meet the FMRs and form the core reports that will support the Ministry's request for
funds into the donor pooled account or health account. The contents and format of the FMR would be
agreed upon at appraisal/negotiations.
Stwement Of Expenditures (SOlEs): The project will not use the SOE method of disbursement.
2. Audit Arrangements
The Audit Service of Ghana, the country's Supreme Audit Institution, is receiving assistance
from donors to enhance its capabilities to perform the audit of MIDAs and other statutory bodies as
required by the country's constitution. Assistance is being provided by the Swedish Supreme Audit
Institution (SSAI). As part of this capacity building exercise the Bank would agree to the Audit Service
of Ghana, under this capacity building arrangement with SSAI to carry out the audit of the Ministry. If
this arrangement is found not to be adequate and acceptable to IDA, then independent and qualified
auditors acceptable to the Bank would be selected on comnpetitive basis, in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines, to carry out the audit of the Ministry of Hearth. At negotiations a decision would be taken,
whether the audit should be conducted by the Audit service of Ghana.
The main objectives of this external audit will be to obtain an independent opinion on the
operation and transactions, obtain an opinion on the annual financial statements prepared by BMCs, and
review internal controls in the units audited. The audit would cover the whole Ministry' s financial
statements, since there is no use of SA or SOE there will be no separate opinions required. However the
auditors would be required to comment on the reliability of the quarterly financial monitoring reports,
which form the basis of disbursement. A management letter would be required to be submitted together
with the audited financial statements of the Ministry.
Since 1997, an independent private qualified firm of auditors have been carrying out an
independent ex-post procurement audit for all procurement under the Ghana Health Sector Program. The
objectives of this independent audit is to determine whether the procedures, processes and documentation
for procurement and contracting were in accordance with the Procurement Procedures Manual and to
conduct specific analyses of value for money achieved for goods and services procured. Both the
Financial and Procurement independent audit reports should be ready and disseminated to MOH and its
partners before June each year (or at the very latest before the September Health Summit).
Given the large number of BMCs involved, to keep the number of annual audits within
reasonable limits, the program of audits should only have the larger BMCs audited each year. The
remaining BMCs will be audited at least once over two or three years depending upon the size of their
operations. The number of annual audits undertaken should also cover at least 50 percent of the Health
Account funds utilized in that year. The appointment of independent auditors, on a multi-year contract
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and partners from the core donor group, will be a condition
for effectiveness.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
The Ministry of Health will maintain a separate control account in its records of (the "Health
Account") to record the financial resources contributed by each Co-operating Partner to the Program. The
financial resources allocated to the Health Account may be used only for agreed purposes under the
- 74 -



Annual Program of Work. The contributions of the Co-operating Partners will be drawn down into the
Health Account in accordance with the progress of the Program and according to the budgetary and
disbursement mechanisms of the Co-operating Partners.
The Ministry will maintain two separate accounts in commercial bank for donors' contnbutions
to and disbursement from the Health Account. The first separate account will be in US dollars.
Contributions from Co-operating Partners, including IDA, to the Health Account will be made into the
US dollar account. Draw-downs in Ghana Cedis from the Health Account will be transferred once per
month to meet forecast expenditures into a separate account for that purpose maintained in Ghana Cedis.
Allocation of crediVtgrantVother (specify) proceeds (Table
C)
Not applicable.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Table No: Line Item specifications for MOH budget and accounting for BMCs
(used since 1999- Expenditures eligible for pooled donor support; Item 2 to 4, excluding item 1)
Recurrent Expenditures
Item 1: Personal costs (Funds are not to be vired from personal emoluments to items 2-3)
Sub-item 1:    Established posts
Sub-item 2:    Non-established posts
Sub-item 3:    Social Security Fund
Sub-item 4:    Miscellaneous allowances
Item 2: Adrninistration expenses
Sub-item 1:    Utilities
Sub-item 2:     Office cleaning
Sub-item 3:    Office consumables
Sub-item 4:    Printing and publication
Sub-item 5:    Rent and accommodation
Sub-item 6:     Travel and transport
Sub-item 7:     Maintenance
Sub-item 8:     Financial and other charges
Sub-item 9:     Other allowances
Item 3: Service expenses
Sub-item 1:    Training and conferences
Sub-item 2:    Consultancies
Sub-item 3:    Materials and consumables
Sub-item 4:    Printing and publication
Sub-item 5:    Plant and equipment rental
Sub-item 6:    Travel and transport
Sub-item 7:    Other services
- 75 -



Capital Expenditures
Item 4: Investment expenses
Sub-item 1:  Construction works
Sub-item 2: Rehabilitation
- 76 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GHANA: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT II
Project/Schedule              - -                 Planned       --     .       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      10                           17
First Bank mission (identification)             06/08/2001                   06/08/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     04/01/2002                   11/25/2002
Negotiations                                    05/01/2002                   12/04/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/01/2003
Prepared by:
Government of Ghana: Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance:
BB Funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Francois Decaillet                Task Team Leader, AFIH3
Evelyn Awittor                    Health Specialist, AFTH2
Kathnn Plangemann                 Economist, HNDED
Kofi Awanyo                       Procurement Specialist, AFTQK
Fredenck Yankey                   Financial Management Specialist, AFTQK
Mbuba Mbungu                      Procurement Specialist, AFTQK
Eileen Murray                     Sr Operations Officer, AFTH2
Karen Alexandra Hudes             Sr Counsel, LEGAL
David Webber                      Lead Financial Officer, LOAG1
Iraj Talai                        Lead Financial Management Specialist, AFTQK
V.S. Krishnakumar                 Lead Procurement Specialist, AFTQK
John Roome                        Director, AFTQK
Gregoria Dawson-Amoah             Team Assistant, AFCGH
Aissatou Chipkaou                 Program Assistant, AFTH2
Lawrence Barat                    Technical Specialist Malaria, AFTH3
Edward Dwumfour                   Environment Speciahst-AFC1O
Oualitv assurance team: Messr./Mmes. Julie Mc Laughlin, Agnes Soucat, Albertus Voetberg, Susan
Stout, Alex Preker Emmanuel Jimenez, Serigne Omar Fye and Ok Pannenborg.
Additional support was Provided by: Messrs./Mmes Peter Harrold, Theresa Jones, Nichola Dyer,
Irene Xenakis, Bernard Abeille, Elizabeth Adu, Francoise Bentchikou, Galina Mikhlin-Oliver, Trsi
Apronti, Paula Lamptey, Rene Bonnel, Laura Rose and Barbara Machado.
- 77 -



A. Project mpDemrnntstlon Plan
Second Health Sector Five Year Programme of Work: 2002-06. MOH, January 2002.
S. EInk Staff Azsanzomnto
o   Staff Appraisal Report: Health sector support program- Republic of Ghana. Sept 25, 1997.
O   Project Appraisal Document: Ghana Aids Response Project (GARFUND) Dec 8, 2000.
O   Ghana 1992-1998: Public Spending in Health and Education Sectors: Efficiency and Benefits-
January 2001, Sudharshan Canagarajah, Xiao Ye.
O   Steve Weismann: Assessment of the Financial Management and Procurement situation in the
Health Sector. Report of a mission to Ghana. 1999.
C. Ohoer
Genergal infoirraoat on m1 data:
o   Core welfare indicator questionnaire survey 1997.
O   Demographic and Health surveys: 1988, 1993,1998.
O   Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS 4) 1998/99. Report of the Fourth round. Ghana Statistical
Service. October 2000.
O   Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS). Poverty Reduction Policy Framework. Final Draft.
GOG February 4, 2002.
o   Ghana Statistical Service 2000. 2000 Population and Housing Census. Provisional results.
August, 2000.
O   A profile of health inequalities in Ghana- draft March 2000 by Bosu WK. Nsowah-Nuamah nn
and Ward PM ( and all).
O   The Health sector in Ghana- Facts and Figures- MOH-GHIANA. 1999.
O   WHO 2000. World Health report 2000: Health Systems: Improving Performance. World Health
Organisation 2000.
o   WHO 2002. Commission on Macroeconomics and Health Report. Geneva 2002.
O   World Bank 1994. Better Health in Africa.
O   World Bank 2000. World Development Report 2C00/2001. Attacking Poverty. World Bank 2000.
o   World Bank 2002. World Development Indicators database, Apnl 2002.
(http://devdata.worldbank.org)
lPolicy docmennefts and Proiram descriion:
o   Vision 2020 (The first step 1996-2000). Presidential Report to Parliament on Co-ordinated
Programme of Economic and Social Development Policies. GOG 1995.
O   Medium Term Health Strategy: Towards Vision 2020. MOH 1995.
O   MOH 1996 (a), Health Sector 5 Year Programmne of Work.
O   The " Health of the Nation" - Reflections on the First Five Year Sector Program 1997-2001.
Minsitry of Healh , August 2001.
o   Second Health Sector Five Year Programme of Work: 2002-06. MOH, January 2002.
- 78 -



Assessment of the Sector performance:
*   Sector Wide Performance Reviews of the Health Sector for: 1997,1998,1999, 2000, 2001.
MOH.Accra
*   Adams I, Accorsi S and Darko D. Assessment of health sector indicators. A review of the current
and proposed sector-wide indicators. MOHICHIM, April 2001.
*   Information for Action, Volume 1, Number 1 (July-September 2001), and Number 2 and 3 9
March 2002)
*   Adjei, S.: Health Sector Reforms and Immunisation in Ghana. WHO 1999.
Management arrangements. Financial management and Procurement
*   Common Management Arrangements (CMA II) for the Implementation of the Second Health
Sector Five Year Programme of Work 2002-2006. MOH, January 2002.
*   MOH 1997 (a). Management Arrangements for Implementation of the Medium Term Programme
of Work (1997-2001).
*   MOH 1997 (b). Accounting, Treasury, and Financial Reporting Rules and Instructions. Final
Draft.
*   MOH 2001. Guidelines for 2001-2003 Planning and Budgeting. 2000. MOH 2001. Guidelines
for 2002-2004 Planning and Budgeting. September 2001. & Additional Guidelines for 2002-2004
Planning and Budgeting. October 2001.
*   MOH 2001. Review of Financial Management Systems. Draft report. November 2001.
*   Annual Financial Statements. Ministry of Health ( 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001).
*   Foster M et al. 1999 Health Sector Review: Supplementary Report on Health Sector Finance.
Post-Summit Team on Health Sector Financing July 3rd-7th 2000.
Capital Investment:
*   Proposed Capital Investment Plan (2002-06). MOH, August 13, 2002.
*   MOH 1999. Joint Review of the Capital Development Programme and Systems for Integrated
Capital Planning, Capital Project Management and Maintenance of Buildings (Second Draft).
*   MOH 2000. Policies and Principles for Capital Investment Programme. Draft (Estate
Management Unit).
*   MOH 2000. Procedures Manual for Implementation of Civil Works. Draft (Estate Management
Unit).
Environmental and social issues:
*   GOG, 2000. Guidelines for the Safe and Sound Management of Bio-Medical Waste in Ghana
(Environmental Protection Agency).
*   GOG, 2001. Strategic Framework for the Development of Capacity for Environmental Health
and Management in Ghana. Draft (Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development).
*   MOH 2001. Environmental Sanitation Training Manual (Estate Management Unit).
*   MOH 2001. Gender Policy. Accra 2001.
*   Jumpah, Dyson T and Duphey, Moses Yao, 2002. Environmental Analysis of Second Phase of
Medium Term Health Strategy and Five Year Programme of Work (2002-2006). Prepared for the
World Bank and the Ministry of Health.
- 79 -



MOJ Doenor:
o   Aide-Memoirs of the Health summit and subsequent business meetings ( 2 for each and every
year from 1997 to 2002).
o   Danida 2001- Appraisal Report. Danish Health Sector Programme Support and Final Draft
Program Support Document, Phase III, Ghana. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Copenhagen, August
2002.
O   Joint MOH-Donor Mission 1996 (a). Procurement Mission. Mission Report (30 Oct.-96).
O   Joint MOH-Donor Mlission 1996 (b). Financial Management Appraisal of Ghana's Proposed
Health Sector Programme. Final Report (5 Nov.-96).
IHeaRtlh systemn issues:
o   Asibuo, SK, Ampofo, KXX. Review study of health sector regulation in Ghana. Draft. Accra,
August 2001.
O   GAC 2001. Ghana HIV/A1DS Sectoral Action Plans 2001-2005. Ghana Aids Commission, 2001.
O   GOG 1996. Ghana Health Service and Teaching Hospitals Act. Act 525.
O   Health Research Unit 2000. National Report on Exemptions Study., Mhnistry of Health. August
2000.
O MOH 2000. Standard Treatment guidelines. MOH 2C01. Concept of hospital strategy. Final
Draft October 2001.
O   MOH 2002. Policy framework for the establishment of health insurance in Ghana. March 2002.
O   MOH 2002. Proposed Restructunng of the Ministry of Health. Accra, February 2002.
O   MOHIGH[A. First Draft. Community-based Health Planning and Services (CHPS). Lead District
Readiness Assessment. Technical Report, First draft October 2C01.
o   MOH/GHS 2001. Report on Census of Private Medical Practice in Ghana. December 2001.
O   MOH/HRD 2000 (a). Strategies to address nursirg shortages and retain nursing staff cabinet
information document August 2000.
o   MOH/HRD 2000 (b). Strengthening District Health Systems - A proposal to attract health
professionals to deprived/hardship locations January 2000.
O   MOH/HRD 2001. Strategies to retain Health professionals in Ghana and the proposal for the
introduction of new Auxiliary cadre - cabinet information document October 2001.
O   MOH/PSU 2000. Handbook on the Pnvate Health Sector in Ghana. December 2000. Parliament
of the Republic of Ghana. A bill entitled: National Health Insurance Council Act 2001, An act
instituting a national health insurance scheme.
*Including electronic files
- 80 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GHANA: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT II
05-Sep-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Or'ginal Amount in US$ Millions                          disbursements
Project ID    Fy   Purpose                                   IBRD         IDA                GEF     Cancel    Undisb      Ong    Frm Revd
PD67685       2002 GEF- Northem Savanna - TF050723                0 00      0 00                7 90      004       7 95      -0 29     0 00
P050D23       2002 ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                000     220 00                0 00       000    227 53     17 50      0 00
P000968       2001 AGRICSERVICES                                  000      6700                 000       000      6492      6615       000
P071617       2001 GhanaAJDSResponseProjecLt(urmbrella)           000      2500                 000       000      2340       -250      000
P050616       2000 COMMUNITY WATERII                              000      2500                 000       000      1976       492       000
P050624       2000 URBAN5                                         000      1063                 000       000       623       614       000
P069465       2000 RURALFINANCIALSERVICESPROJECT                  000       513                 000       000       490      1030       000
P000970       1999 TRADEGATEWAY&INV                               000      SOSO                 000       000      3367      2063       000
P000974       1999 NATFUNCLITPROG                                 000      3200                 000       000      2665      1252       1 10
P05G615       1999 PUB SECTOR MNGT FROG                           000       1430                000       000       491       539       000
P040659       1999 COMMUNITY DEV                                  000       5 00                000       000       459       367       097
P040557       1999 ERSOII                                         000      17920                000      1841      2740       045       000
P045188       1998 FOREST BIODIVERSITY                            000       0o0                 890       000       668       377       000
P000946       1998 NATRES MANAGEMENT                              000       930                 000       000       145       1 77      000
P041150       1997 VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE                         000      3000                 000       000      1261       972       000
P045588       1997 PUB FIN MGMT TAP                               000      2090                 000       000       635       817       000
POD0973       1996 URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION                 0 00     71 00                0 00      000       8 83     16 50      514
P000975       1996 BASIC EDUCATION                                0 00     50 00                0 00      0 00      1 26      5 60      0 00
P042516       1996 PUBUC ENTERPRISEtPR                            0 00     26 45                0 00      000       9 20     1136       0 00
P000926       1995 GHTHERMAL(P-VIi)                               000      17560                000       000      2777      3306      3235
P000962       1995 RSHERIES                                       000       900                 000       000       090       156       000
P000936       1994 LOCALGOVTDEV                                   000      3650                 000       000       246       368       000
Total        000     106371              1660       1845      53143     23081      3945
- 81 -



GHANA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2C02
In Millions US Dollars
COEn5mftft'1                    Dsbunred
HIFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1993               AEFAfariwaa                   0.16    000     0.00     0.00    0 16    0.00    000     000
1995               AEF Antelope Co.              0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    000
2000               AEF Computer Sch              0 23     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               AEF GPPI                      1.70     0.00    000     0.00    1 70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF NCS                       0.00    O.Q0    0.53     0.00    0.00    0.00    0 53    0 00
1997               AEFPTS                        0.00    oco     0.31     0 00    0.00    0 00    0 31    0 00
1999               AEF PhamCare                  0.28    0.00     0 00    0.00    0 28    0.00    000     0 00
1994               AEF Shangri-la                0 93    0.00     0 00    0.00    0 93    0.00    0.00    0 00
1996               AEF Tacks Farms               0.43    0.00     0.00    0 00    0 43    0.00    0.00    0 00
1989/91/93         Cont Acceptances              0.00    0.00    0.00     0 00    0.00    0.00    0 00    0.00
2001               Diamond Cement                5 00     1.00    0 00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 00    0.00
2000               ELAC                          0.00     0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10     0 00    0.00
GAGL                          0.00     0.00    3.26    0 00    000     0 00    3.26    0.00
1990/91/96         GHANAL                        0.00    0.44     0 00    0.00    0 00    0.44    0 00    0.00
1991               Ghana Leasing                 0.00    0.15     0.00    0.00    0.00    0 15    000     0.00
MFI SSLC                      0.00    0.48     0 00    0.00    0 00    0 48    0 00    0 00
1992/93            Wahome Steel                  0.23    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.23    0.00     000    0.00
2001
1989/92
Total Portfolio:         8.96    2.17    4.10     0.00    3.96     1 17    4 10    000
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.03      000       0 00     0 00
- 82 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GHANA: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT II
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Ghana      Africa  Income      Development dlamond'
2000
PopuiatIon, mid-year (miltions)                     192        s59     2,459                Lde expectancy
GN I per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  340       480      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     66        313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Populabon (%)                                        2 4       2 6       19      GNI
Laborforce(%)                                        26        2 6       24                                     GrI Gnoss
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty lIne)
Urban poputation (% of total population)              38        34       32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      58        47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              57        92       77
Child malnutrition (% of crdx/ren under 5J            25                              Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved wale source (% of populabon)    64        55       76
Iliteracy (% of population age 15+)                   29        38       38                  Gha,
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)  79        78       96                     na
Male                                                84        85       102           - -- Low-income group
Female                                              74        71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TEFRM TRENDS
1950     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                          4 4      5 9       7 8       5 2
Gross domestic investment/GOP               5 6     14 4      21 0      23 7                     Trade
Exports ot goods and services/GDP           8 5     16 9      31.9      49 2
Current account balance/GDP                 -1 2     -7 3     -11 5     -8 8
Total debt/GDP                             31 5     658       902      1294      Domeshc                   Investment
Total debt service/exports                 13 1     23 3      20 8      19 4     savings
Present value of debtGDP                                      49 1      76 2
Present value of debt/exports                                152 4     162 4
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04                   Indebtedness
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3 0     41       4 4       3 7       48             -  Ghana
GDPpercapita                       -05       14      21         14       22                   Low-incomegroup
Exports of goods and services       2 5     10 8     7 6        1 8      2 7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                       40
Agriculture                                57 9     44 8      35 8      353      201
Industry                                    119     168       254       25.4      o__                  _   __
Manufacturing                              7 8      9 8       9 0       9 0                 ao a.     Go i
Private consumption                         83 9    85 2      82 7      814      40
Generalgovemmentconsumption                112       93       136       153               -GDl           C-GDP
Imports of goods and services               9 2     25 9      49 2      69 6
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000     Growth of expots and lmports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                   1 0     34        39        21        ,
Industry                                    33       2 6       49        38     40 . 
Manufacturing                              3 9     -3 3       4 6       3 7    20 - -
Services                                    5 7      5 3       47        51
0
Pnvate consumption                          2 8      3 9       9 3      -3 2    -20     as   es   97    so    a
General government consumption              2 4      5 4       -5 4     201
Gross domestic Investment                   3 3      2 3       -3 3     -191    -4
Imports of goods and services               0 6     11 2      10 9     -17 3            -     Eiporis  -*   Imporns
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
-83 -



Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1S99     200      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                      r0
Consumer prices                                     37 3      12 4     25 0     so0
Implicit GDP deflator                      51 1     31 2      140      272      40    =
G;ovemment firwsnce                                                            20         
(% of GOP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                             7 5     12 5      171      18 6            as    as    9     as   as    co
Current budget balance                      -7 9     1 7       0 7      0      [1         GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             -5 7      -91       -9 1
TRADE
1980     190       IMl      28D     I Export and Import bv.ls (USS mill)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                  897     2,008    1 898     4000
Cocoa                                              361       552      437
Timber                                             119       174      175     3,0.0-
Manufactures
Total imports clfl)                                1290      3,523    2,973     2,000
Food                                                39                        1.000
FuBI and energy                                    205       342      533           _
Capital goods                                      226                           0 28_
Export price index (1995=100)                        91         89       8 u              55   Ea   57   00   as   0
Import pnce index (1995--100)                        100        90      101                O Evorts     S Inports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             91        99       79
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      19 2M I0          Current crcount balenc to GOP (%)
(US$ rnilhons)
Exports of goods and services             1.210      982     2,473    2,402
Imports of goods and services             1,175    1,508     3,828    3,362
Resource balance                             36     -522     -1,353    -960
Net income                                  -86     -111      -163     -147
Net current transfers                        -3     202        620      650
Current account balance                     -54     -431      -895     -457
Financing items (net)                       -42     550        793      261
Changes in net reserves                      96     -118       102      t96     20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS mil/ions)      330     272        419      224
Conversion rate (DEC, IocaUlUSS)            9 6    326 3    2,647 0  5,231 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1 S9     200
(USS millions)                                                                  CompositIon of 2CO daW (USS mlll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,398   3,873     7,010    6,714
IBRD                                      114     113         18        9                 G 579
IDA                                        99    1,310     3.099    3,187
Total debt service                          159     231        522      472          F 75
IBRD                                       11      20         10        9
IDA                                         1      10        41        47
a 3,187
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            83     214        159      165
Official creditors                        185     335        177      186       E 1.3s2
Private creditors                         -42      28       -51       -57                w
Foreign direct investment                  16      15 
Portfolioequty                              0       0         19                        D 527 C 293
World Bank program
Commitments                                55     297       282       158     A - IeRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              29     205       223      204      B- IDA   D - Other muilblateral  F - Pnvate
Prindpal repayments                         3      13        28        33     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  26     192        195      171      -
Interest payments                           9      17        23        23
Net transfers                              17     175        172      148
Development Economics                                     - 84 -                                                10 /201



Additional Annex 11: (Health Sector Situation)
GHANA: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT II
I- Health and Diseases in Ghana
The health status of the Ghanaian population has improved significantly over the past decade.
Although the decline in infant mortality has been higher than in neighbonng countnes, current rates are
still far from the desired level. Moreover, the aggregate rates mask enormous gender, socio-economic and
geographical inequalities. The epidemiological situation remains characterized by the predomnance of
infectious diseases. The incidence of some infectious diseases, particularly vaccine-preventable diseases,
has been declining whilst reported cases of others-- such as HIV/AJIDS--and non-communicable diseases
have been increasing. HIV/AIDS has become a major health issue in the country. With a sero-prevalence
rate of 3% (2001) among the adult population, an estimated 600,000 persons have already been infected
with H1V.
Mortality
The life expectancy for Ghana is 58 years (WHO 2000) and crude death rate for Ghana is
10/1000 (1999 World Population Data sheet). The 1998 GDHS found an infant mortality rate of about
57 per thousand live births and an under-five child mortality of 110 per thousand live births.Though both
IMR and U5MR have declined at least 25% since 1988, the current rates have not reached the targets of
50 per 1000 live births for IMR and 70 per 1000 live births for U5MR, set for Ghana at the 1990 World
Sumimt for Children. Most infant deaths are attributed to malaria, measles, tetanus, diarrhoea, low birth
weight, ARI and malnutrition. The majority of deaths in Ghana are caused by diseases which can be
prevented and/or easily treated with existing cost effective interventions (Health of the Nation, 2001).
Morbidity
The top causes of out-patient department (OPD) morbidity in 2000 were (Adams, Darko and
Accorsi 2001): 1. Malaria; 2. Upper respiratory tract infection; 3. Diarrhoea diseases; 4. Skin diseases;
5. Accidents;  6. Pregnancy-related complications; 7. Eye infections; 8. Intestinal worms, 9.
Hypertension; and 10. Anaemia
The general pattern of OPD morbidity ( as recorded by MOH) did not change much over the last
10-15 years (Adams, Darko and Accorsi 2001). Malaria remains the dominating cause for OPD
attendance accounting for 44% of cases registered in 2000. Thus, contrary to the other communicable
diseases that decreased due to increased efforts in immunisation campaigns and other disease control
programmes, malaria remains a major public health problem. HIV/AIDS is rapidly becoming one of the
most serious health problems in Ghana and is seriously threatening to consume enormous resources and
erase gains made in the health sector.
- 85 -



Taible n: Slected IEeslDDn stestics foir Ghnans
llndicator/Value             lDate    VaERe   Soanrce of bnLormaftin
nfant mortality rate per 1000  1998   61      GDHS (1998)
U-5 mortality rate per 1000    1998    110     GDHS (1998)
Matemal mortality rate per                     (740 per 100 000 live birth- WHO-1998)
100000                                I
Life expectancy at birth       1997    58 yr   The World Health Report 1998
Crude death rate per 1000      1999    10     World Population Data sheet,
Total fertility rate           1998    4.6     GDHS (1998)
Vaccination of child <lyr DPT3  1999   70%     National EPI programrnme/Bosu et al. 2000
Children 12-23 months with DPT3 1998   72%     MOH/Bosu et al.
Children 12-23 months with full  1997  62%     CWIQ 1997fBosu et al. 2000
vaccination
Access to safe drinking water rural 1997  50%  CW1IQ 1997/Bosu et al. 2000
Access to safe drinking water  1997    85%     CW1IQ 1997/Bosu et al. 2000
urban                                 I
Access to sanitation rural*    1997    70%     CW1[Q 1997/Bosu et al. 2000
Access to sanitation urban*    1997    91%     CWIQ 1997/Bosu et al. 2000
Adult literacy rate - total    98/99   50%     GLSS 1998/99
Adult literacy rate - male     98/99   65%     GLSS 1998/99
Adult literacy rate - female   98/99   37%     GLSS 1998/99
* Access to some toilet facility other than bush.
While communicable diseases still account for about 2/3 of the registered contacts to the OPD,
the proportional morbidity rate for non-communicable diseases have been increasing over the past decade
(Adams, Darko and Accorsi 2001). This development is consistent with the early stages of an
epidemiological transition, which, however, seems to be more prominent in some regions than in others.
Nutrition Statnus
In 1993, among children aged 3-36 months, 26% were stunted, 31% were underweight, and 12%
were wasted. In 1998, 26% of U5s were stunted, 25% were underweight and 10% were wasted
(GDHS 1998). Thus, the malnutrition picture improved only slightly over the period 1993-98. No more
recent valid overall data on the nutrition status is available Micronutrient deficiency is common,
particularly of vitamin A, iodine, and iron.
lnequaligies in health
The general improvement in health outcomes masks large regional differences. For example,
infant mortality in the three northern regions and Central Region are nearly double the rates in Greater
Accra (GAR) and Ashanti (AR) Regions (Bosu, Nsowah-Nuamah, Ward 2000). Similarly, U5MR is 2.5
to 2.8 times higher in these areas compared to GAR and AR. Mortality rates are generally significantly
higher in rural than in urban areas. Similarly, malnutntion and anaemia is more prevalent in the northern
savannah and in rural areas than in GAR and urban areas.
Whereas the regional differences seem to have been more or less the same over the past decade,
- 86 -



the urban-rural differences appear to have widened, with urban areas maklng faster progress in health
than rural areas. Although urban areas have better indicators than rural areas, this also hides the problem
of worse health conditions among the urban and peri-urban slums, and among migrant workers.
Infant and child mortality rates as well as morbidity tend to vary with household expenditure
quintile and mother's education (Health of Nation 2000, Bosu et al 2000, see also the GPRS). Thus, the
situation among the poorest and among the least educated households is very similar to that of the
northern regions. The variation is, however, much less pronounced than the vanation across regions,
possibly because regional data capture a combination of socio-economic conditions, i.e. people in the
northern savannah generally belong to the lower expenditure quintiles and have lower education as well.
Factors affecting health
The factors underlying poor health conditions in Ghana are common to much of Africa. A high
level of poverty increases health risks and the ability to deal with illness. Female education is a cntical
factor, since women make many of the decisions about health of the family. A low literacy rate among
women, undermines the ability of many Ghanaian women to make healthy choices about childbearing,
food distnbution and nutrition, personal hygiene, and seeking health care. High fertility rates adversely
affect the health of children and mothers, and result in a high population growth rate and shortages in the
provision of basic services. Unhygienic conditions increase the likelihood of illness. In Ghana, only 50%
of the population have access to safe drinking water, and disposal of liquid and solid wastes are grossly
inadequate, particularly in urban areas. The varied nature of these underlying causes of poor health
highlight the need for solutions that link the sectors involved.
The regional differences are related to differences in basic conditions (e.g. poverty and female
education) as well as health promoting factors, which are generally worse in the northern regions and
Central Region and among rural residents (Bosu, Nsowah-Nuamah, Ward 2000). For example, preventive
behaviour (use of ANC, FP, immunisations etc.) is more pronounced among residents of GAR, urban
residents and among women with higher education.
Similarly, people in urban areas, especially Accra, are more likely to seek consultation with a
health care provider in case of illness than those in rural areas, as are school-aged children and people
above 50 years (GLSS 1998/99). Whereas the great majority of consultations in urban areas, Accra in
particular, take place with a doctor, a consultation in a rural areas is almost equally likely to be with a
doctor, a medical assistant and a nurse.
II- Structure of Health Services
In Ghana as elsewhere it is important to take into consideration that the health sector is pluralistic
in terms of ownership and type of providers (e.g. trained or untrained and allopathic, traditional or no
recognised system of medicine). Health services are provided by government as well as by private
providers.
Ghana Health Service (GHS) and Teaching Hospital Boards will be the main providers of public
allopathic health services, with other public providers being military and police hospitals, while Chnstian
Health Association of Ghana (CHAG) is the largest umbrella organisation in the private sector. There
are, however, not many vocal organisations, which seek to promote the interests of patients.
- 87 -



TalRe 2: Regsleredl henlth feities
Type                   Total    Government      Private                   Propor.Private f
(a)
Chemical shops         4000                                               70-100%
Pharmacy shops          800                                               100%
Clinics                 1085                    > 1056 (b)                910 PFPc + 108
company clinics c >
200 NGO (e)
_Half63%
Health Centres          558     All (a)                                   9%
Maternity Homes         320                     396 (c)                   100%
District Hospitals       91     71 (b)          106 (a)                   140 PFP (c) + >49
NGO(d) > half31%
Other Hospitals         124
Regional Hospitals        9     9 (a)                                     0%
Teaching Hospitals        2     2 (a)                                     0%
PFP denotes pnvate for profit providers.
a: Health of the Nation (MOH 2001) reflecting Annual Report 1999 from MOH
b: I.Adams, H[U, personal cormnunication (2002)
c: Report on Census of Private Medical Practice in Ghana (Danida HSSO/MOH Dec. 2001)
d: Memorandum on Partnership for Progress, CHAG March 2002 indicates 49 CHAG Hospitals
e: c indicates 304 NGO Clinic/Hospitals out of which 49 (acc. to d) are CHAG hospitals.
f: First column based on figures in previous columns, second from (PSU/MOH .2000)
Note: Different sources do not give fully consistent figures as can be seen from the table. It should be noted that
comparing number of beds would probably show government with a higher proportion of hospital services than
when comparing facilities.
While the health centre and the tertiary levels are dominated by the government facilities, the
general hospital level has a large private component and the lower level services are the most pluralistic.
It is estimated that in 1998/99 almost half of all visits to health facilities occurred in the private sector
(GLSS1998/99). It is estimated that up to 80% of clinical encounters are preceded by an encounter with a
community based provider, mainly private and many non-allopathic, of some sort (Health of The Nation
2001).
The government has supported the need for closer collaboration with the private sector
throughout the 1990s. Thus, the MTHS acknowledges that the promotion of active partnership between
public and private is imperative to improve coverage and quality of the health care system. But in
practice this has been very slow to materialise despite the establishment of the Private Sector Unit in the
Ministry of Health in 1997. The new government is, however, emphasising the importance of involving
the private sector more in integrated service delivery and is committed to increase the role of the private
sector significantly. As part of this effort, the new government is planning to increase the private
provision of curative services to 65% in the long term with a 5 year target of 50% (statements by the
Minister of Health 2001). It will be a major challenge to make the private for profit sector contribute
better to the goals of society in terms of equity and efficiency.
The organisation of the emerging insurance market (government, community and private not for
profit as well as for profit) also poses a new challenge.
- 88 -



Public providers of health services
General
The MOHIGHS is a hierarchical organisation with a central headquarters in Accra, ten regional
administrations responsible for supervision and monitoring, and district health management teams in
each of the 110 districts.
MOH has around 28,600 staff with a shortfall against facility based staff norms of over 5,000
(1999 Health Sector Review). The distribution is not even across levels of care and regions.
Proportionally, more highly qualified staff are at tertiary and secondary level and less at district and
sub-distnct level. More than half of medical officers work at national level (Headquarters or tertiary
institutions), as do 2 out of 5 professional nurses with proportionally more staff, especially highly
qualified, working in Accra and other better off regions. Many health centres are not properly manned.
This adds to the bias of health services to the advantage of the urban and more well to do population. For
example, the average distance to a doctor in the savannah area (Northern Ghana) is 24 mrles (39 km).
And in the northern regions around 80% travel more than V2 hour to reach a health facility as opposed to
9% in Greater Accra (based on CWIQ - MOH 2001).
In principle, there is a four level referral system in Ghana. Primary health services are provided
in health centres and clinics, while basic hospital services are provided at district hospitals. Patients are
referred to regional hospitals for secondary hospital services and to the two teaching hospitals in Kumasi,
Ashanti Region, and in Accra for tertiary hospital services. With a few exceptions, all hospitals,
however, also function as first line providers of primary health care in their immediate catchment area,
regional hospitals also provide basic hospital services etc. Bypassing of lower level services appears to
occur relatively frequently, contnbuting to the overburdening of the hospital facilities.
While the reallocation of resources to the district level has been necessary in order to increase
the coverage and quality of pnmary health care services and improve access to basic health care, it
should nevertheless be recognised that the overall balance of the health delivery system is important. The
secondary and tertiary levels of care have important functions as back up for the lower levels. For
example, an important function of ANC is to screen for at risk pregnancies, but this is of limited use in
terms of contributing to reductions in maternal mortality if there is no access to emergency obstetnc care
units or comprehensive obstetric care units. Further, higher levels of facilities have an important role
with regard to support supervision and training, both of which are important for the maintenance and
further development of the quality of service delivery at the lower levels of care.
Government organizations
GHS and Teaching Hospitals Act was passed by Parliament in 1996. The progress in establishing
the GHS was very slow, for a long time only the GHS Council was established and a few senior officials
appointed. However, considerable progress has been made dunng the first half of 2002 and most
positions have been filled, although there are still outstanding issues regarding roles and responsibilities
between MOH and GHS. Apart from the possible general virtues of the agency model, the intention
behind the establishment of GHS is to allow for more flexible and appropriate management than what is
possible within the rules and regulation of the civil service. Also in terms of appropriate incentives to
improve performance and attract staff to remote areas GHS is expected to get sufficient flexibility.
Initially, however, the GHS will follow civil service regulations. Likewise, GHS accounting procedures
will have to be approved by the Auditor General when they have been developed.
- 89 -



MOH will continue to be responsible for overall policies and monitoring of the health sector,
public as well as private. The Ghana Health Service will as a subvented organisation be responsible for
service delivery, including preventive and promotive health care, financed by public revenue.
Additionally, GHS will be responsible for technical guidelines and disease surveillance. It will receive
the bulk of its funding from the MOH, but user charges (IGF) will continue to play a significant role for
the individual institutions within the GHS. It is not finally decided whether it will be MOH or GHS that
enters into contractual arrangements with other service providers, e.g. CHAG hospitals.
A GHS Council has been established with representatives from stakeholders, including
professional associations. A Director-General is the chief executive of the GHS. Directors are in charge
of health services at the regional and district level. Comnuttees will also be established at regional and
district levels as stipulated in the Act. At the district level with representation from the District Assembly
and the Christian and Muslim religious groups, the private sector, the traditional councils and two other
persons at least one of whom shall be a woman (GOG 1996), and with somewhat similar representation
at the regional level.
The Teaching Hospitals are govemned by their own Boards with direct reference to the MOH
(GOG 1996).
Dece'tralisatioa wiia the e1eag secor
Decentralisation within the health sector has been ongoing for a number of years. In 1978
District Health Management Teams were set up constituting a de-concentratuon of power, with further
responsibility delegated in the late 1980s. In 1995 some financial authority was delegated to the distnct
level and this has since been further developed. The MOH has been divided into cost centres, also called
Budget Management Centres (BMCs) according to the principle that managers should control the
resources for execution of their plans, but should then also take the responsibility and be accountable for
the use of resources. This is institutionalised by the introduction of regular break-down budgeting and
Performance Contracts with all BMCs down to and including Sub-Districts (MO6H 1997). The
contracting partners are the BMC and the adrinistrative level above.
There have been considerable difficulties in reconciling the GHS and Teaching Hospitals Act
with the Local Govemment Act (with Amendments), however a renewed attempt to streamline
procedures and improve the situation is currently ongoing.
Private providers of health services
The private provision of health care in Ghana is quite substantial and is recognised as an
important and growing source of health services. The private providers include private not for profit
providers, i.e. church-related and other NGOs, company health services, private for profit providers of
allopathic health care, private for profit practitioners of traditional medicine and drug-sellers.
Data from 1997 suggests that in general the patients prefer to use private for profit services for
minor ailments because of slowness, unavailability of drugs and poor staff attitude in the public facilities.
But for more serious cases government or mission facilities are perceived to be better (Ghana Health
Policy Analysis and Development Group 1999). Surprisingly, patients found only little difference
between charges, once payments for fees, tips, bribes and drugs had been paid in the public sector.
-90 -



Private not-for profit providers
The private not-for profit providers are dorninated by the mission facilities that are estimated to
cover 40% of the service delivery, supplying an estimated 30% of beds and 35% of outpatient care
(MTHS). Christian Health Association of Ghana (CHAG) is supplying appr. 30% of health services
(CHAG, March 2002). The mission facilities essentially provide curative services, but also some
activities in public health. There are a few NGOs providing public health services, such as immunisations
and family planning.
There has been a long association between the MOH and the mission sector. Thus in many
districts the CHAG hospitals provide essential services and receive funds from MOH to pay salaries of
staff seconded from GHS/MOH. Some CHAG hospitals that have been designated as district hospitals in
addition receive funds to cover other running costs. The collaboration with the mission sector has been
facilitated by the fact that the sector is well-organised in the CHAG and the muslim Ahmadiyya
Movement. The mission sector has therefore also been the natural starting point for the improvement of
the public-private linkage. A memorandum of understanding for collaboration between and MOH/GHS
and CHAG has yet to be signed, and the exact modalities for contracting are not yet developed.
Private for profit allopathic providers
Ghana's private for profit sector experienced rapid growth in the period 1982 to 1990 as pnvate
sector involvement was encouraged in all sectors. In the 1990s the government put some limits on the
establishment of private practices. The private providers are medical practitioners (physicians, nurses,
midwives) operating mainly small individual clinics or hospitals. In addition, drug sellers constitute an
important source of treatment. 28% of physicians were estimated to work in private practice in 1997
(PSU Dec.2000). The private for profit providers predominantly provide curative care, and most
providers are concentrated in urban areas. In 1997 63% of clinics were located in cities, 36% in towns
and only 1% in villages (Ghana Health Policy Analysis and Development Group 1999). The private for
profit sub-sector has often been envisaged to play a role in extending the coverage to under served areas.
The potentials for contracting private for profit providers to work in remote-rural or semi-urban areas
have therefore been discussed but have not been explored in any detail. In general, detailed policies for
the private for-profit sector is yet to be developed. Progress in this area has been slow during POW I.
The private for profit providers are not well-organised although there are several professional
bodies, such as the Registered Nurses and Midwives Association and the Ghana Medical Association,
which play important roles in developing the professional standards. This lack of proper organisation is a
barrier for further development of the private-public collaboration, as the MOH does not have the
capacity to negotiate with all individual providers. The Society for Private Medical and Dental
Practitioners have had limited collaboration with MOH in service provision.
Practitioners of traditional medicine
Practitioners of traditional medicine, ranging from spiritualists, psychic healers, bone-setters to
herbalists and traditional birth attendants are spread widely across the country and are considered the
most popular first line health care providers in case of illness, though reliable quantitative information on
the levels of use and cost is not available. A Traditional Medicine Practice Law was passed (2000) and
the stated intention during the POW I as well as of the new government (NPP 2000) is to promote
traditional medicine, make it safe and integrate the service with the allopathic system. At present,
traditional practice is not well regulated nor understood by the public sector. Although a Directorate for
- 91 -



Traditional Medicine has been established within MOH, the development has been very slow. Regulating
and understanding the traditional sector is a major challenge that has been taken up by the new
government.
Hf11- lReullation of henltlh seirvices
The regulation of professional practice and private institutions to ensure quality health services
and appropriateness in distribution of health practitioners is the responsibility of a number of
semi-autonomous statutory bodies reporting to the MVOH. The regulatory framework is generally
outdated, entails very few effective instruments that are even hard to enforce, should the commitment
materialise in terms of appropriate staffing and resources.
The five main regulatory bodies in place in Ghana are: the Pharmacy Council, Nurses &
Midwives Council, Medical & Dental Council, Food & Drugs Board, and Private Hospitals & Maternity
Homes board. In addition there are Private Health Care Practitioner's Council, Private Health Institutions
Board, and West Africa Health Examinations Board. Furthermore, statutory bodies are to be established
for traditional medicine and allied health workers. The Pharmacy Council has branches in seven regions,
the Food and Drugs Board operates in two regions, whilst the rest are represented by the GHS at the
Regional and District levels. The result is that supervision of the regulations is done superficially and
mainly for the private sector. There is apparent little co-ordination amongst the regulatory bodies as they
struggle to establish their secretariats. Staff, resources including office accommodation and transport are
inadequate. Previous attempts to bring the bodies under one umbrella failed because of internal
differences. In several areas there is a need to develop or improve regulations, e.g. regarding ART and
health insurance. Also standard procedure norms at least for nurses and midwifes are outdated.
Illustrating the problems are the findings of a recent review that 14% of a sample of 138 pnvate
doctors were not registered and that compliance with the regulatory framework generally was low. A
survey from 1997 showed that only 3 (1.7%) of the 175 facilities included in the study had been
supervised during the last year (Asibuo & Ampofo 200 1). Consequently, the government is planning to
improve the efficiency of the regulation of the health sector not least with a view to increasing the role of
the private sector.
IIV- Human resources
Compared to many other Sub Saharan African countries Ghana has relatively capable and
expenenced staff at regional and district level with management capability and initiative. This has partly
been due to a conscious effort in the past to develop a cadre of Masters in Public Health to head regional
and district offices. It is expected that human resource management will improve when the GHS is
firmly established.
The health sector is expected to be grossly understaffed in the near future. Ghana has 29 training
institutions under the MOH, 9 under Higher Education, and 8 owned by the CHAG. In theory, the
training capacity is sufficient to cover the staffing needs of the sector. The two medical schools graduate
about 100 doctors each year, and the strategy to expand intake into nursing schools has been most
successful for Registered Nurses with the number of students being nearly four times that of 1995.
However, these achievements are insufficient. The schools are underutilized, drop out rates are high, and
many graduates choose not to work in the health sector. As a result, the final supply is only sufficient to
replace staff lost through attrition.
Further, the health sector faces a serious problem of high attrition among medical workers
-92 -



(doctors, nurses and other health workers) due to emigration. The good quality of theses cadres combined
with far higher salaries abroad provides an unfair competition. Anecdotal evidence indicates that 40% of
graduating medical students leave the country and in 1999 nurses equivalent to the Registered Nurse
output was lost from the register (Health of the Nation 2001). Both newly qualified health professionals
and senior staff are leaving to work abroad. This is not a new phenomenon. A 1999 study shows that out
of a cohort of 489 doctors graduating between 1985 and 1994, 298 (61%) left the country. In 1999 alone,
a loss of about 350 nurses was reported and anecdotal evidence suggests that at least 40% of all
graduating medical students left the country.
Internal imbalance in the distribution of the health staff is also of major concern. There is a
marked dispanty between the best and the worst-served regions. The Korle Bu Teaching Hospital alone
employs more than 25% of the country's doctors, while only 7% are present in the three northern regions
combined. The above human resource issues are attnbutable to an over-centralization of the recruitment
process, a low remuneration package, and a weak and indiscriminate incentive package which fails to
attract staff to the underserved areas of the country.
These serious human resource problems have confronted the sector for a long time not because
attention has not been paid to them but at least partially because strategies used are outdated. The
strategies do not recognize that health workers are being pulled increasingly to regional and international
markets where the financial rewards far outstnp anything Ghana can afford to pay. The government is
commnitted to addressing this issue (NPP 2000). It is currently trying to address it by increasing the bond
amount and considers offering better conditions for example in remote areas. An attempt within the new
government to delay the issuing of doctor's examination certificate with 3 years, thereby prohibiting
them from gaining employment abroad, was met with strong political resistance and given up. One of the
potential advantages of GHS is the ability to be more flexible regarding terms and conditions of
employment than what is possible under the civil service system. Also a possible narrowing of the scope
of public funding for the health sector may result in fewer but better paid staff, making retention of key
staff like doctors and nurses more feasible, as outlined and analysed for example in the "1999 Health
Sector Review" (MOH April 2000) and in "Health of the Nation" (MOH 2001). Finally, contracting out
and contracting in strategies as well as other strategies ( franchising) need to be piloted .
V- Health Expenditure Patterns
Health Care Financing
Government revenues, external aid, user payment and chanty finance health care consumption in
Ghana. Public expenditures on health are mainly channelled through the MOH, although a few other
ministnes run their own hospitals, e.g. police, military and mining.
The percentage of GDP allocated to public health care expenditures from government revenue
through MOH decreased to reach a low of barely 1% in the mud 90s. With the start of the POW I the
allocations to health increased and reached 1.6% of GDP in 2000. The total public health care
expenditures (incl. donor funding) amounted to around 2.3% of GDP over the period. The World Bank
(WDR 2000/01) and WHO (WHO 2000) find slightly lower estimates, but both sources place Ghana in
the middle of the range reported for the West African countries. As regards the estimated total
expenditures on health (mcl. private sector), Ghana is again placed in the middle with an estimated 3.1%
of GDP. While one should be extremely cautious with cross-country comparisons as data validity and
consistency may vary a lot, it appears that Ghana is not doing too bad as compared to sirmlar countries.
The MOH recurrent expenditures Line Item 1 to 3 in the chart of accounts. This was changed in
- 93 -



January 1999 as a percentage of total GOG recurrent expenditures (narrow, excl. interest) have decreased
from 11.1% in 1991 to around 7% during the period 1994-96, but increased again to reach 11.4% in 2000
and 11.0% in 2001 (cf. Table 3.3). During the same period the share of the total government expenditures
(all items) spent in the health sector decreased from 8.2% in 1991 to a level of around 4.6% in 1994-97
with a slight upward trend that continued ending at 6.9% in 2001.
TabBe 3: IHeaItb care epfentuires and Tfmanckng  rough 1MDIE R996YH[
Billion Cedis                   1996      1997      199 _989              0     2001 I
peqnditu res                                                                        1
Recurrent                       146.8    182.5     2585      3342      532.4   792.9
Capital                         149.0    142.9     101.5      63.5     111.5    80.9
Total                           295 8     325 4    360.0     397.7     643.9   873.8
Total in real pnces (1997)      357.3    325.4     308.6     294.1     347.8   382.2
Financin g                l _ _ _ _   l _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   i_ __ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
MOH                             125.5    139.5     195.01    233.2    35.3     444 6
IGF   _                           9.1     27.7      33 0      47 6      722     109.6
Conmnercial credits              99.0     101 6     77.0      27.8      31.7     13.4
Donors                           62.2     56.7      55.2      89.1     183.S   306.2
Total                      1    295.8    325.51    360.2     397.7     6440     873 8
Rnicatoirs               IF!z 
% MOH recurrent/COG               7.0      8.4       8.7       9.5      11.4     11.0
recurrent (narrow)                               __                __
% MOH capital/GOG capital        4.6       4 8       3.2       2.1       1.9      0 6
% MOH totalIGOG total             4.9       52       6.2       5.9       7 5      6.9
%Recurrent/MOH total             49 6     56.0      71.7      840       83.0     96.5 l
% IGF/M OH total                  9.2      8.5       9.2      114       11.2     12.5
% domestic MOH total/GDP          1 3       1.2      1.3       1.4       1 6      1 5
MOH total per capita ($ US)      4.62     4.18      493       4 82      4.29      4 1
(excl. foreign financing)  l                                                         ll
MOH total per capta ($US)       10.16     8.14      7.81      6.83      644       6 4
(mcl foreign financig)                                  I
Note: Recurrent expenditures include line items 1-3. GOG denomnators refer to discretionary expenditures. t
Including foreign financing sources: MYlick Foster et al. 2000, MOH Financial Statement 2000, MOH Financial
Report 30/9-01, Table 2.1, Consolidating Statement of Revenue and Expenditures by BMC group, for the year
ending 31/12 2001; Exhibit G. (MOH August 2002) Aide Memoir December 2001 and July 2002 and Personal
communication with Financial Controller.
In absolute terms the public health care expenditure per capita is quite low. The domestic
financing increased significantly at the point in time where the SWAP really took off, may be
demonstrating the will to meet some of the GOG-obligations. In 2000, the domestic US$ health spending
per capita decreased relatively much, but this could be expected due to the collapse of the exchange rate,
-illustrating a weakness in the indicator. Donor per capita financing has gradually decreased over the
period, reflecting that the inflow of foreign financing has not been able to keep pace with population
growth. The real growth in health care expenditures in cedi terms exceeded the population growth rate.
Charity from abroad has histoncally been important for the mission sector, but the sources seem
to be diminishing. There is, however, still some direct transfer of charity funding as well as in-kind
assistance. Local charity exists but the size and the value is not known.
- 94 -



In 1985, a large move towards cost recovery in publicly provided health care began. In 1990 the
cash and carry' programme for drugs (a revolving drug fund to which the consumer pays the pnce of
drug plus a mark up for cost increases) at govemment clinics and hospitals with the aim of increasing the
availability of drugs at all service levels was implemented. By the mid 90s, slightly less than 5% of the
total public health expenditures were financed by the so-called internally generated funds (IGF). The
IGF, however, covered about 10% of the total MOH recurrent costs, and 3040% of the total non-wage
recurrent costs. By 2000 the contribution from IGF financing had more than doubled to reach 11.2% of
total health care spending. The revenue from user charges is quite important for the functioning of the
health facilities, especially at the lower levels of care, as IGF are retained at the point of collection.
User payments for public health care are included in the MOH per capita spending. The total
health care expenditures in Ghana are, however, considerably larger due to a substantial payment for
private provision of health care by private households as well as unofficial fees in the public sector. The
estimated annual private expenditures amounted to 648 bn Cedis in 1998/99 and the average annual per
capita expenditures on medical care and health expenses amounted to 36,981 Cedis or approximately 14
US$ per capita (GLSS 1998/99). This adds up to an estirnated total of about 20 US$ per capita for health
consumption in 1999 when including direct private expenditures, MOH expenditures and foreign
financing, but excluding expenditures by other ministries, pnvate companies and charity.
Overall, the nominal resource mobilisation targets for the POW I were achieved despite less than
expected contribution from donors and GOG. The increase was thus due to a substantial increase in IGF
and conmmercial borrowing.
The GOG is comrnitted to develop a health insurance system. The commitment has over the past
year matured into a framework that to a large extent relies on the development of local insurance
schemes, but also on a scheme for formal sector employees later to be transferred to the local schemes
(Policy Framework for the Establishment of Health Insurance in Ghana, March 2002). The overall policy
framework for this national health insurance system envisions a central Exemptions Fund to be used to
subsidise those who cannot afford prermums for the minimum package; an Equalisation Fund to
compensate for differences in affluence of the local insurance member groups; and a Reinsurance Fund
to strengthen the sustainability of the smaller schemes. A comprehensive health insurance system
covering the whole population will take considerable time to develop and it is still at an early stage. The
insurance schemes per se are not expected to generate additional resources for health care under POW II,
but merely to finance members' user fees. In the long run the national health insurance is, however,
expected to finance around 20 % of the health sector expenditures and the financing of the insurance
scheme is envisioned to rely on multiple sources, which may result in increased resources for health.
Public Health Care Expenditures by Category, Input Mix and Level of Care
Expenditure categories
During the preparation of the POW I the capital budget was cntically reviewed and revised to
ensure affordability and value for money. The increased activity in terms of capital development has and
will, as more projects are completed, require additional recurrent funding for the health facilities to
become fully functional. This will call for increased real allocations to the recurrent budget as well as
efficiency gains within the current services. During the POW I, the allocations for recurrent expenditure
thus increased to 84%. In real termrs, the recurrent expenditure has been fairly stable up till 1998, since
when it increased with on average 16% p.a.
- 95 -



A part of the GOG funds for capital expenditures in the health sector is channelled through the
District Assemblies' Conunon Fund (DACF). The DACF receives an annual allocation of minimum 5%
of government tax revenue (in practice exactly 5%), which under a number of constraints may be used
for projects of priority to the individual district (Act 455). New projects can only be initiated by the
District Assembly. This may to some extent result in deviations from the resource envelope as the
expenditures though the DACF are not included. The budget allocation to DACF was significantly
reduced from 1999 to 2000, but budget execution rate was increased significantly. still there was a
reduction in the expenditure for basic education and health. At the same time expenditure for water and
sanitation, however, increased significantly. In 2000, the expenditures for the health sector through the
DACF amounted to 4.0 billion Cedis (Public Expenditure Review 2000 (2002)). MOH with regard to the
planned capital expenditures as capital expenditures at least after a transitional period will be determined
by the plans and priorities at district level rather than by the current Five Year Programme of Work
developed by the MOH.
lnpu mix
The input mix in the production of health care is reflected in the distribution of expenditures by
line item category.
1Table 4: Peircentzge isrilbiution of health sectar ezgmndtture by lime item. Aln sorrces.
Linrre item                      199A     237     1 .99 31       | IEslt. 2001. j2002
I:Personnel emoluments             23       25       35       34          42      32 
2-3: Administration and Services   33        44      49       49          49      63|
4: Investments                     44        31      16       17           9       5
Total in %                         101      100     100      100         100     100
Total (in bn. Cedis)              325 t     360     398      6           874    987 jl
% Wages/Total recurrent            41      37    141          41          47      3
Note: Subventions mainly consists of subsidies to the mission sector for wages.
Source: Mick Poster et al., MOH Financial statement 2000, MOE Financial Report 30/9 2001, Consolidating
Statement of Revenue and Expenditures by BMC group, for the year ending 31/12 2001; Exhibit G. (MOH
August 2002)
The wage expenditures have accounted for an increasing share of the recurrent expenditures for
health during 1990-95. To be able to provide effective health care, health workers need drugs and
materials; buildings, transport means and equipment needs maintenance; utilities must be paid etc. There
should hence be an appropriate balance between the input of human resources and other non-wage iterns.
During the POW I the share of domestically funded recurrent expenditures spent on wages was to
decrease from estimated 55% (excluding subventions to the mission sector) in 1996 to 33% by 2001. In
reality the percentage has, however, barely been reduced (Health of the Nation 2001). Looking at the
expenditures for personnel emoluments out of total recurrent costs, i.e. line item 1-3 and including donor
- 96 -



funds, the percentage has been fairly stable around 40%, though. The expenditure estimates for 2001
suggest that there has been a relatively large increase in the percentage of recurrent expenditures, i.e.
item 1-3, spent on personnel emoluments. Part of the explanation is the freeze on construction activities
due to the set-back in the economy.
It is a constant dilemrna that on the one hand the wages are too low to ensure supply of staff and
management control and on the other hand the wage bill is too high compared to non-salary items.
Redistnbution of staff and downscaling of facilities with low utilisation could, though, go some way to
increase individual wage payments without increasing the wage budget. The proportion of recurrent
expenditures allocated to personal emoluments is planned to increase during POW II.
Levels of Care
Due to many changes in registration of recurrent expenditures by level of care, comparison of the
distribution across levels over time is difficult. Prior to 1997 resource use was, for example, registered at
procurement level rather than at the level of resource use, which meant that a high percentage of
expenditures was attnbuted to Headquarters. The impression was that previous recurrent resource use
had strongly favoured hospitals.
The major focus of the POW I as regards resource shifts was to reallocate non-wage current
resources from the administration and tertiary care to regional and especially distnct level care. This
appears to have been fairly successful, although it is difficult to identify how much of the resource shift
is merely due to a change in financial responsibilities (i.e. where expenditures are booked) rather than to
a real change in expenditure patterns. Thus, the district level received 44% of the non-wage recurrent
expenditures in 2000 (Financial Statement 2000) as compared to 26% in 1997. The estimates for 2001
suggest that the percentage of the expenditures allocated to the district level and below is slightly
increasing.
In 2000, the recurrent expenditures at polyclinics/health centres constituted only 15% of total
recurrent expenditures. The budget allocations for this level appear to have been only very slowly
increasing. The seemingly quite low disbursement at sub-district level is worrying. The explanation for
the low level of disbursement should be looked into, it may be due to expenditures being registered at the
district level. An increase in proportion spent on sub-district level is planned both in POW H and GPRS.
Table 5: Percentage distribution of actual non-wage recurrent expenditures 1997-2001
(GOG and Health Fund)
Per cent                1997        1998         1999        2000        Est. 2001
MOH and GHS a           40.9        14.3         12.9        22.0        19.5
Tertiary health services  18.2      15.9         12.6        14.2        18.2
Regional health services  15.2      25.4        28.6         20.0        17.3
District health services  25.6      44.3        45.9         43.8        45.0
Total                   100         100          100         100         100
Subvented organisatlons, e.g. CHAG, regulatory bodies, included under headquarter
Note: Due to changes in registration of expenditures, interpretation of developments over time should be made with
caution, see text This is particularly the case conceming 1997.
Source Mick Foster et al. 2000, MOH Financial Statement 2000, Consolidating Statement of Revenue and
Expenditures by BMC group, for the year ending 31/12 2001; Exhibit G. (MOH August 2002) Aide Memoir
December 2001 and July 2002 and Personal communication with Financial Controller.
- 97 -



The comparison of hospital expenditures at different levels of facilities and with non-hospital
expenditures should not be mistaken for a comparison between expenditures at different levels of care,
i.e. primary, secondary and tertiary care. Most hospitals also function as first line provider for a large
urban population. Further, lack of funds at lower levels of care, among other things (e.g. the absence of
doctors, the structure of fees), has resulted in a number of patients by-passing the health centres/clinics
resulting in overcrowded out-patient departments at hospitals and keeping the hospital personnel busy
with patients that could well have been treated at lower levels of care. This should of course be avoided.
However, some hospitals have per designation (as the local health centre) pnmary care activities, which
may suffer if not given appropriate attention in the process of allocating an increasing share of resources
to the lowest level of health facilities.
The GPRS operates with a broader definition of health expenditures overall as well as for
pnmary health care.
Pubiei Health Care Eqpendfitures by Recipient Gi-oups
Geographic groups
The distribution of health workers across the regions is very uneven in terms of the population
per health worker. There is a more than 100% difference between the best and the worst staffed region.
For example Greater Accra has one doctor per 18,400 population, whereas Upper West has one doctor
per 39,000 population, and there are apparent differences in the number of hospital beds and clinics in
the regions. The per capita GOG salary budget varies significantly across regions and preliminary data
suggest that there is more than a factor two between the per capita health care budget of the region with
the lowest and the highest expenditures (Ensor et al. 2001). The differences between the regions are quite
large, with the regions in the rural savannah area being the most disadvantaged. As the geographical and
demographic characteristics vary between the regions equal per capita health care expenditures in all
regions is not necessarily desirable from the point of view of neither efficiency nor equity.
For the POW I a set of resource allocation criteria was developed for the non-wage recurrent
budget to increase the fairness in allocation to different levels of care as well as to different regions.
Among the resource allocation criteria were population and later Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) was
included, both used as proxies for health services needs. lIMR was, however, only used to allocate a
minor share of the budget. The other criteria reflected differences in cost of service delivery and existing
infrastructure. While the population based criteria have reduced the inequality in regional resource
allocations, there is still significant variation between regions and the MOH is working on developing
new formulas to take into account needs for health care to a larger extent.
Allocation criteria based on existing facilities as in the current formula are somewhat
problematic. First, the allocation mechanism does not provide any incentive for rationalisation of beds.
Second, by allocation according to number of beds, historical inefficiencies will be maintained unless the
allocation criteria is combined with a continuous assessment of bed needs and consequent adjustments of
bed numbers. This is one reason why Northern Region, which is currently the most under-supplied with
health facilities seems to be getting relatively low per capita resource allocations.
The three northern regions and Central Region have been identified as relatively poor and with
very poor health outcomes. The GPRS stipulates that by 2004, 39% of current government health care
expenditures should be targeted at these four regions as compared to 32% in 2000. These four regions
are home to 27% of Ghana's population. The needs are, however, also larger than average with higher
- 98 -



than average mortality rates, high poverty incidence etc, and costs of service delivery are higher in a
scattered population at long distance from the supplies and logistics of the centre. Preliminary analyses of
different resource allocation critena have been undertaken to take these aspects into account. The
analyses seem to indicate that especially NR are under resourced.
The work on the development of a new resource allocation formula will be continued and it will
further be considered how feasible it is to achieve such shifts in resource allocation within the next three
years. It should be taken into account that it would take time to adjust the facility structure and the human
resource distnbution to be able to absorb additional funds, and that it would also take time to downscale
activities or find other sources of funding in areas from which resources were to be reallocated. Further,
even if reallocation to the four regions were only made out of budget increases it may not be politically
viable to totally freeze the level of expenditures in real terms in all other regions.
Socioeconomic groups
With the introduction of the User Fee Policy in 1985 utilisation of health services at public
clinics fell markedly. It took nearly ten years for utilisation rates to recover to the same levels prior to the
introduction of user fees. Presently, 11% of the public current health expenditures are recovered through
user payment. However, current user fee practices are not transparent and create obstacles especially for
the poor (Volta Regional Research Team 1997, Health Research Unit 2000).
The poor do not use services as often as the rich. Among people who reported themselves as
being ill 56% in the richest quintile sought care as compared to 37% in the poorest quintile (Canagarajah
and Ye 2001). In all quintiles except the richest this percentage has been decreasing over the period 1992
to 1998. In particular, the percentage of people who sought public health care has decreased and
especially so among the poorest. There may be several access barriers, an important one being the
financial situation of the patient and the sometimes substantial user fees charged. For example, among
the 19% of pregnant women in 1998/99 who never went for prenatal consultation, one third indicated that
this was because they could not afford it (GLSS 1998/99). This phenomenon was more pronounced in
rural areas.
The expenditure incidence approach are used to assess to what extent government social
spending reaches the poor. The approach combines unit costs per health visit at different categories of
health facilities derived from public expenditure data with reported utilisation data. While the benefit
incidence has decreased slightly for the second poorest fifths of the population (using 12% of resources
in 1998 against 16% in 1992) and the two richest fifth of the population (50% in 1998 against 54% in
1992), benefit incidence has increased slightly for the poorest fifth of the population (12% to 13%) and
most for the third quintile (19% to 26%) (Canagarajah and Ye 2001). The middle income groups thus
seem to benefit more from public health services than before. Similarly, the rural population groups
benefit significantly more in 1998 getting their 61% share of resources as compared to 51% in 1992.
The average amount paid for a consultation in 1998/99 was 29,400 Cedis, however, 80% of
patients paid less than 10,000 Cedis (GLSS 1998/99). The average amount paid for vaccination was 710
Cedis. The average annual per capita expenditure for medical care and health expenses was 36,981 Cedis
or 4.6% of total consumption expenditures. Medical products and appliances account for 37% of this
amount, Hospital services for 46% and Other health services for 17%. The per capita expenditure was
higher in urban areas (51,485 Cedis) than in rural areas (29,753 Cedis) and the composition of the
sub-items were also different. Painkillers, antibiotics and anti-malarials account for more than half of
expenditures on Medical products and appliances in rural areas, but less than 30% in urban areas,
presumably reflecting the access to larger variety in urban areas. The per capita expenditures on medical
- 99 -



care and health expenses are increasing with increasing income. Surprisingly, the share of total
consumption allocated to health and medical care is almost the same across quintiles, being only slightly
lower for the poorest quintile. This is in contrast to the common observation that the percentage share
tend to decrease with increasing income.
Table 6: Pe:r calpits Meledicn care asid health expenises by experndiLture qWuimte R93IPP.
Quintile                   Per capita health care      Percentage of total expenditures
expenditures in Cedis      spent on health care
1                                    9,050                          4.2
2                                    18,415                         4.6
3                                    27,557                         4.7
4                                    41,803                         4.5
5                                    88,029                         4.7
Ghana                                36,981                         4.7
Source: GLSS 1998/99                                 I
Recognising that user charges may create barriers to access, exemptions for certain groups were
included in the user fee policy, according to which exemptions should be given to destitute individuals,
to persons with certain diseases (TB, leprosy, psychiatric disorders), to specific preventive treatments
(ANC, PNC, immunisations) and to the aged (70+ years), the pregnant women and the under 5 years old.
The exemption mechanisms have, however, not worked satisfactorily in practice. Exemptions worked
best for easily identifiable groups (pregnant, children, elderly) for whom funding was also specifically
earmarked, while funding for exemptions because of (hard to identify) destitution that are not only
difficult to identify but also were funded under a budget line that could be vired to other budget lines.
While some improvements were made during the POW a, the initiatives were generally hampered by
unclear guwdelines, insufficient funds allocated in view of the number of beneficiaries and by bottlenecks
in getting refunds to the health facilities for the IGF lost due to exemptions (Health Research Unit 2030).
The MOH has, however, taken steps to improve on some of the administrative problems. Some of the
regions experimented on their own. For example, Northern Region exempted more services than
specified in the government circular resulting in a more than doubling of the utilisation of health services
in two years. The backside was a major deficit, which was extraordinarily covered by Danida in 2000.
Similarly, Brong Ahafo region experimented with reimbursing mission facilities for some selected
services eligible for exemptions, but ran short of funds to include all services. The MOH is in the process
of reviewing the Cash and Carry system with a view to phasing out and to improve the exemption system.
The MOH has initiated work to set up health insurance schemes, cf. above. In the rural areas a
number of local health financing initiatives have been undertaken by communities, hospitals and clinics
(partly with Danida support). While risk sharing increases accessibility to many people, premiums will
still be unaffordable to some. It will be necessary to work on mechanisms to improve the implementation
of the exemption policy, not least finding ways of tackling the more complicated problem of how to
identify the poor people for whom exemptions would be paid by the government. It should be noted that
this problem is identical to identifying poor people for whom government should pay premiums in
insurance schemes. Therefore it will be timely to start making the exemptions work more effectively
immediately, irrespective of which kind of insurance mechanism is chosen and when it will be
implemented.
While targeting more resources at relatively deprived regions is an important step, it should
nevertheless also be remembered that wide disparities also exist within the regions and that appropnate
- 100-



targeting of intra-regional resource allocation is as important if the poorest segments of the population
are to be reached.
Vl- Health Interventions and Service Delivery
Access to essential public health services (such as imnunization) has continued to improve over
recent years due, in particular, to the provision of outreach services and development of a community
based health program. At the same time, considerable investments in health infrastructure, with a clear
focus on peripheral facilities, have increased the geographical accessibility to health care. Despite these
efforts, the distribution of both public and private facilities still favors the most affluent regions and
urban areas with the northern part of the country being less endowed. Substantial progress has been
made in integrating service delivery. Further, some important innovations have been introduced to
improve the quality of care. These include creating quality assurance teams, introducing mortality audits,
and promoting more rational prescription procedures. User satisfaction surveys have also been introduced
along with efforts to engage citizens with the planning, financing and management of their health
services.
Between 1996 and 2000, publicly financed and managed curative outpatient services have
increased slightly while hospital admissions increased by 48%. However, utilization of public services
remains at a relatively low level. The substantial increase in utilization that followed improvements in the
exemption policy in the Northern region suggests that financial accessibility remains a major constraint.
VII- Management of the health sector
There has been a growing recognition of the variety and contributions of non-governmental
providers in recent years. The GOG owns the higher level hospitals -- the teaching and regional hospitals
-- while the private sector covers everything below that level from district hospitals downwards. Of a
total 226 hospitals, 106 are owned by GOG or quasi government organizations, 49 by the mission sector,
and the remaining 71 by the private sector. Health centers are all government owned. Below the level of
the health center, however, the private sector dominates again. Community-level services are the most
pluralistic. The MTHS and 1997-2001 POW envisaged a purchaser-provider split in which the MOH
retained responsibility for policy, resource mobilization, and monitorng of health care interventions
while becoming the purchaser and regulator of service provision. Other agencies, including the Ghana
Health Service (GHS), the Tertiary Hospitals, quasi-government organizations, and the private sector
would become service providers. Progress towards this split has been made, but remains limited. The full
establishment of the new MOH and the GHS has been delayed. Teaching hospitals have started to
increase their management autonomy and implement the BMC concept providing for decentralized
management of the various departments. A MOU, which provides a basis for collaboration, has been
signed between the MOH and the Christian Health Association of Ghana (CHAG), representing the
mission sector. Yet, there is no formal contracting or conmmssioning arrangements for core service
delivery between the public and the for-profit private sector.
Much has been done to promote decentralization with the establishment of about 350 BMCs and
the introduction of more managerial autonomy. However, performance contracting of BMCs has not yet
been implemented and needs to be re-introduced to make the linkage between budgets and outputs more
explicit. Further, the linkage with district assemblies remains to be clarified.
Planning and budgeting
- 101 -



At the outset of the 1997-2001 POW, overall capacity for planning and budgeting was weak.
Since then, substantial progress has been made. The introduction of the BMC concept and full
decentralization of decision-making power regarding a portion of donor funding to BMCs has resulted in
a tighter operational link between plans and budgets. Health sector planning and budgeting has been
further enhanced by the Public Financial Management Reform Program and the Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) launched in 1997. MOH was selected as one of the pilot rninistries and
has benefited from a number of training programs. Budgeting is done in accordance with the MTEF
system, discussed with donors, and is subject to parliamentary approval.
Monhtoring and evaluation
Performance and performance monitoring has been very high on MOH's agenda. Monitonng
performance is done and will continue to be done jointly by Government and development partners
through three mechanisms: (i) the monitoring of individual BMCs, (ii) the monitoring of the overall
performance of the sector against the 20 indicators and (iii) the monitoring of the health status of the
population. Surveys and studies such as the Living Standard Measurement Surveys and benefit incidence
studies provide important additional information.
The information system has been developed and is still developing for sector performance
reviews that have been carried out annually and will continue, taking place under the leadership of MOH
leadership but with very active participation of its internal and external partners. These reviews have
increasingly become strategic and sector wide, reviewing direction and vision of the health sector. In the
next 5 years monitoring will cover the 25 sector indicators which cover fiscal efforts of government and
donors, implementation of key policy initiatives such as the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy health
component, and improvement in quality assurance procedures at facilities and contracting arrangements.
In 2001, a comprehensive review of the health sector was carried out on the basis of 2000
regional and divisional reports as well as various specific task team reports. This work was undertaken by
health experts within the MOH, acadernia and health partners and was followed by a consultations
process involving a wider set of stakeholders including other Ministries, District Assemblies and Civil
Society Organizations. The Health of the Nation Report prepared by MOH is a synthesis of these
reports and of reflections on the results of the First Program of Work. It was presented to health partners
in June 2001 who cormmended the depth of analysis, the participatory approach and the focus on
inequalities in health. On the occasion of these reviews, important debates have taken place on equity
and inequalities as well as on the role of civil society, especially of NGOs and local comnmunities.
Support services
During the last few years, various actions were undertaken to ensure efficient procurement of
civil works, supervision and cost control. Civil works management capacity has been improved through
the employment of qualified professionals in the Estate Management Unit of the MOH, the development
of a monitoring database and training. Further, a national drugs policy was adopted and published in
1999, and standard treatment guidelines have been revised. There is evidence that the availability of basic
essential drugs, as measured by tracer drugs, has been improved. However, much remains to be done in
drug supply management, training in the rational use of drugs and improving the system for drug pricing.
IFrocuirement
During the 1997-2001 POW, a concerted effort was made to develop procurement capacity and
- 102 -



improve the procurement of goods and services. Progress made during the period includes: (i)
establishment of a Procurement Unit (PU) in MOH, (ii) provision of high quality technical assistance to
the PU, (iii) preparation and launching of a procurement procedures manual (PPM), (iv) establishment of
procurement committees in the BMCs, (iv) training of key BMC staff in the use of the PPM, and (v)
carrying out annual independent ex-post procurement reviews. Since 1999, the MOH has submitted its
annual procurement strategy and plan in a format satisfactory to the Bank. For the past three years the PU
has conducted National and International Competitive Bidding processes with increasing competence.
Sector wide independent procurement audits have been carried out annually since 1997. A plan of action
to correct anomalies and errors was prepared and implemented after each audit. To further enhance this
progress, additional work is needed to address the lack of procurement strategies and plans in the
decentralized BMCs, poor record keeping in BMCs, the splitting of contracts, single source procurement;
and the absence of sanctions against officials who flout the procedures in the PPM.
VIII- Donor Assistance to the Health Sector
There are about 15 significant donor and technical agencies involved in the health sector, along
with several international NGOs. There are many local NGOs registered. 94 NGOs are members of the
Coalition of NGOs in Health (PSU Dec. 2000).
The relationship between the MOH and its development partners has evolved from intensive
discussions and debate during the development of the first MTHS and POW. In principle almost all the
doi.ors accept the POW as the overall framework and participate in the GOG-Donor meetings and many
have signed the Memorandum of Understanding. Furthermore, there is strong inter-agency co-operation
and a considerable openness and exchange of information between the main donors and the government.
Finally, it has been important that the government has been very much leading the coordination of the
donors.
Donor co-ordination has greatly improved with the introduction of the sector wide approach
(SWAp) in the mid 1990s and not least catalysed by the pooled funding arrangements (Health Account)
for the POW I. The arrangements sustaining this relationship were articulated in the management
arrangements for implementation of the Medium-Term POW, the Memorandum of Understanding, and
the code of practice for MOH and partners. Further, a strong framework of policy dialogue has been
institutionalized, characterized by two annual joint summits, quarterly business meetings between the
MOH and partners, and monthly partner meetings.
The amount of donor funds channelled through the Health Account has increased from 11% in
1997 to 36% in 2001(Consolidating Statement (2002), end year status, exhibit G). Despite improvements
not least regarding donors contributing to the Health Account, the reporting of donor expenditures on
health is still not satisfactory and highly variable between agencies. MOH has introduced a system for
capturing information, which is, however, still not fully functional and also not adhered to by all donors.
For the most part, costs for overhead and technical assistance, external training and the financing of
NGOs are not well reported. Ultimately, donor expenditures should be captured by the MTEF, but
although the health sector is one of the better performing sectors in this respect, it is still far from fully
satisfactory.
- 103 -



Additionas Annaen 12: lWon oring and RVuElon -upDi$OoQ             @
GHANA: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORIT PROJECT 0
Performance monitoring has been and is still very high on the MOH agenda. Since 1997,
monitoring performance is done through three mechanisms:
(i)   the monitoring of health status indicators obtained through the Demographic and Health Survey.
Living Standard Measurement Surveys, Core  welfare indicators questionnaire- CWIQ surveys, benefit
incidence studies and specific surveys and studies provide important additional information.
(ii)  the monitoring of individual health facilities and Budget Management Centers-3MCs,
(iii)  the monitoring of the overall performance of the sector against a set of 20-25 indicators for the
same period and,
The health status of the population will continue to be monitored periodically through national
surveys and studies, such as the Demographic and Health Survey. The last DHS survey was conducted in
1998 and the next one will be in 2003.
As since 1997, data collected in health services will continue be used to monitor the performance
of individual BMCs. The same data will be compiled to offer comparisons between BMCs within the
same geographical area. Regional reports will be produced annually and discussed locally with all
stakeholders.
In 1997, a list of twenty sector-wide indicators was agreed upon to enable all stakeholders to
assess progress towards meeting the agreed objectives and allow for an annual assessment of the
strategies defined under the POW. The list has been used as a basis for all the annual sector performance
reviews camed out since 1998. As the 20 indicators were judged not necessarily the best for measuring
either outputs and outcomes, an in-depth review of the indicators was carried out in 2001. It has been
revised to now include 25 indicators under 5 categories: access, quality, efficiency, partnership,
financing. These same indicators will be used to monitor progress in Ghana's Poverty Reduction
Strategy.
Joint Government and donor monitoring of the programme will continue to occur on a regular
agreed schedule. Goverrnment and donors have to monitor annual progress covering fiscal efforts of
Government and donors; implementation of key policy initiatives; the degree of implementation of work
programmes; and performance of BMCs and the whole health system, equity considerations, consumer
satisfaction, and health impact.
Reports on these indicators will be provided semi-annually to the health partners and will be an
input for the reviews and missions when planning priorities and budgets are determined. In addition, the
general development in the health status is monitored by the general health information system.
Furthermore, many supplemental targets and indicators have been formulated in the separate intervention
focus sections of the POWII that can be used to guide and monitor interim performance in these specific
areas, as planned by a 'benchmark reporting' system being developed by the MOH. Finally, medium term
targets are indicated in the GPRS.
Each year a joint MOH-Donor Technical Review will be undertaken prior to the MOH-Donor
Review Meeting in April based upon MOR reporting on developments the previous year in terms of
achievements and accounts. The review will include more in-depth analysis into selected system wide
-104 -



areas/concerns seen as cntical. The agreed conclusions will be formalised in an Aide Memoir signed by
MOH and its partners.
Based upon the draft budget and plan for the next year compiled by the MOH through
aggregation of individual BMCs budgets and plans, the audited accounts and the review, a meeting
including the MOH and donors disbursing to the Health Account will be undertaken in
September/October every year to appraise plans and budgets. During this meeting the annual sector plan
and budget as well as a procurement plan specifying civil works, equipment, transport and TA for the
following year, including the contributions from the GOG and donors, will be agreed to in accordance
with the priorities of the Programme of Work. The agreement will be in the form of an Aide Memoir
signed by MOH and the donors planning to disburse through the Health Account the following year. The
plans and budgets are of course preliminary until the Parliament has approved the Finance Bill, and the
agreement in the Aide Memoir will indicate the Partners' comrnmitment to finance the health sector
provided the eventual MTEF and Finance Bill is in accordance with the plans presented and agreed to in
the signed Aide Memoir. This schedule is correlated to the MOH/GHS planning and budget cycle.
Finally, regular quarterly and monthly meetings between MOH and donors will continue to take
place.The procedures are described in CMA II Ch.8 .
- 105-



SECTORWUlDIE RNIIDEClAT¢l
Hlealth Staftus        0   Infant mortality rate
: Under five mortality rate
0 Maternal Mortality ratio
D % Under five years who are malnourished (underweight)
Access                 D   Number of outreach services carried out by specialist from
tertiary, secondary and district hospital by region
Population to doctor and nurse ratio by region
o Outpatient visit per capita
0 Hospital admission rate
o Number of community resident nurse per district/region
Quality                °   % of maternal audits to maternal deaths
0 Under five malaria case fatality rate
0 % tracer drug availability
Effciency                  H1V seroprevalence (among reproductive age, 15-19, 20-24)
 Tuberculosis cure rate
 Number of guinea worm cases
o AFP non polio rate
% Family planning acceptors
D % ANC coverage
a % PNC coverage
a % Supervised deliveries (skilled attendants)
o Bed occupancy rate
o EPI coverage (DPT3, measles)
Partmership                % recurrent budget from GOG and Health fund used by private
sector, NGOs, CSOs and other MDAs
lFnnanmcing             a  % GOG budget spent on health
o  % GOG recurrent budget for health
0  % of earmarked/direct donor funds to total donor funds (per
partner)
o  % of IGFs coming from pre-payment and community-insurance
scheme
o  % recurrent and capital expenditure by level, by region, and by
source
D  total amount spent on exemptions by exemption category
-106 -



Additional Annex 13: Memorandum of Understanding
GHANA: HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT II
This Memorandum of Understanding is among:
The Danish International Development Assistance, ("DANIDA");
The Department for International Development of the United Kingdom, ("DFID");
The European Commission, ("EC");
The Government of the Netherlands, ("Dutch Government"); and
The International Development Association, ("IDA");
collectively referred to as "Co-operating Partners"
and
The Republic of Ghana, referred to as the "Government".
I. Background
1.    In 1997 the Ministry of Health initiated a sector reform program on the basis of a comprehensive
sector policy framework (the Medium Term Health Strategy, referred to as "MTHS"). The Ministry of
Health has completed implementation of the first Five Year Program of Work for the years 1997-2001
under the MTHS. In order to reduce the burden and cost of multiple procedures, to reinforce
Government ownership, and to strengthen institutional development, the Co-operating Partners have
undertaken a sector-wide approach, while maintaining appropriate standards, and still using, as need be,
their own specific procedures. Pursuant to the first Memorandum of Understanding signed in 1998, as
Government systems have been strengthened, the Co-operating Partners have agreed to use common
management arrangements, and an increasing proportion of Co-operating Partners' resources allocated to
the health sector have been pooled in a Health Account (as descnbed in paragraph 30) managed by the
Ministry of Health.
2.     The Government has adopted a second Five Year Program of Work under the MTHS for
2002-2006 (the "Program"). Common Management Arrangements for the implementation of the Program
(known as CMA-II) were approved and published in January 2002. CMA II reconfirms the key principles
and cornmon management arrangements underlying the Program.
3.     The Government's contribution to the Program is estimated to be $638 million. The Co-operating
Partners endorsed the Program in December 2001, and their contribution to the Program is estimated to
be at about $ 260 million (out of which about $ 230 million is to be pooled). The anticipated timing of
Government and Co-operating Partners support for the Program is set out in Annex 1.
4.     The Government intends to continue to improve the performance of its institutions in managing
health sector resources in order to enhance the development impact of the Program. The Co-operating
Partners intend to collaborate by building stronger donor partnerships in support of the MTHS. The
Government and the Co-operating Partners are conunitted to openness, consultation and sharing of
information. As the Co-operating Partners gain increasing confidence in Government institutions and
procedures, channeling of donor resources through Government systems will be scaled up.
5.    In this context, Co-operating Partners will continue working towards strengthening and utilizing
Government systems including planning and budgeting arrangements, mechanisms, rules and procedures
-107-



for procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing, reporting, monitoring and evaluation. They will
also continue working towards increasing the proportion of their funds that they channel through the
Health Account.
6.     Accordingly, this Memorandum of Understanding sets out the application of the Co-operating
Partners' and Government's respective financial management, procurement and disbursement policies to
the Program. The fiduciary arrangement under the Program will: (a) account for the use of all funds
channeled through the Health Account and the pooled Aid Account under the Program; (b) stipulate
applicable procurement regulations and procedures; (c) put in place an acceptable internal control
system; and (d) have effective external auditing arrangements. This Memorandum of Understanding also
defines Government recurrent budget obligations and a single reporting, monitoring and evaluation
system under the Program. The Government and the Co-operating Partners have reached the following
understandings on co-operation and procedures for financial management, procurement, disbursement,
monitoring and evaluation and the exchange of information to carry out the Program. Bilateral agreenents
may be supplementing this MOU
1E. Institutional AKZggggLggp1s
7.     The Program introduces a number of changes with the objective to create the basis for improved
efficiency and equity in health services financing and provision. The Program is predicated on a series of
financial and organizational reforms intended to mobilize additional resources for the sector, to protect
poor people from the consequences of unforeseen health expenditures and to equip public agencies in the
sector to carry out new stewardship and governance roles in an expanded and more pluralistic
organizational environment.
8.     The definition of the health sector has been expanded, according to a new vision of a pluralist
sector, to include government health services, private, traditional and non-governmental providers, civil
society and community groups. A major policy of government is to enhance private sector involvement
in service provision, increasing the private sector's contnbution in the sector to 50% in the next 10 years.
9.     The Ghana Health Service and Teaching Hospital Act (Act 525, 1996) has strengthened the
autonomy of the teaching hospitals as a public sector tertiary service provision institutions and created
the Ghana Health Service as a public service provision agency with responsibility for primary and
secondary health care.
10.   The Ministry of Health will be responsible for overall coordination of Co-operating Partners'
contributions to the Program. To maintain the policy dialogue and ensure joint planning with
Co-operating Partners, there will be monthly health partners meetings, quarterly MOH-Partner business
meetings and twice-yearly MOH-Partners meetings (the "Health Sumrnmits"). The timetable of planning
and monitoring events in the health sector is attached in Annex 2.
11.    The Co-operating Partners may meet with all implementing agencies as needed for planning,
budgeting and performance monitoring purposes.
12.    All institutions in the health sector will operate on the same planning and budget cycle. On or
before the 15th of October in each year, the Government and the Co-operating Partners will estimate the
amount of financing to be provided by the Govemment and each of the Co-operating Partners. The
agreement will be based on a consolidated sector plan and budget (the "Annual Program of Work")
derived from the MTHS and the sector's performance of the previous year.
- 108 -



13.   All activities in the health sector and the support of Co-operating Partners will be within the
framework of the MTHS and focused on the achievements of the agreed health sector objectives and
plans set out in the Program. Funds provided by the Government and the Co-operating partners through
the Health Account and the pooled Aid Account will be used exclusively to finance expenditures under
the Annual Program of Work. Co-operating Partners should make all efforts to operate within the MTEF
planning and budget cycle. The Government will reflect all support that it receives in the sector in the
budget.
III. Assessments
14.   Each of the Co-operating Partners will be invited by the Government to participate in joint
assessments of financial management and procurement capacities, practices and procedures of the
institutions implementing the Prograrn at district, regional, and national levels. The assessments will
diagnose those aspects of capacity that require strengthening, and will certify whether an institution can
manage and account for Program finances, assets and carry out procurement, based upon criteria set out
in annex 4.
15.   During implementation of the Program, the joint assessments will be regularly updated and
shared among the Co-operating Partners in accordance with a schedule agreed to by the Co-operating
Partners and the Government. Appropriate capacity-building arrangements for each institution carrying
out the Program ("Budget Management Centers" or "BMC's") will be defined and agreed among the
Co-operating Partners and the Government.
16.   Financial management and procurement responsibilities under the Program will be adjusted in
accordance with the proven capacities of such Budget Management Centers, and different expenditure
authorizations and procurement thresholds will be established for the BMC's at district, regional, and
national levels. Funds management and procurement for institutions that do not meet the established
criteria or for BMC's that have not complied with financial management and procurement rules and
procedures will be handled by the certified BMC at the next supervisory level.
IV. Financial Management
17.    The Ministry of Health will continue to maintain a financial management system adequate to
reflect the transactions, resources, expenditures, assets and stores under the Program. The financial
management system will ensure that the Ministry of Health is able to produce timely, understandable,
relevant and reliable financial information for planning and implementation of the Program, and
monitoring of progress toward its objectives that will also allow the Co-operating Partners to evaluate
compliance with agreed procedures. Raising the standard of the Government's fiduciary systems will
extend confidence over the proper use of funds in the whole health sector rather than just the individual
projects/activities financed by each of the Co-operating Partners.
18.   The Accounting Manual of MOH, the Accounting Treasury and Financial Reporting Rules and
Instructions (the ATF Rules) will continue to form the basis for accounting and financial control within
MOH and its agencies. ATF Rules implementation advisory notes will be issued periodically to provide
guidance on new developments within the FM environment. The ATF Rules set out the financial
management arrangements, organization structure (including the internal audit function), staffing,
standard accounting forms, books, ledgers and reporting formats, and the content and frequency of the
quarterly and annual financial statements to be provided by the Government durnng implementation. A
supplement to the ATF Rules will be prepared which will provide additional guidance on the contents of
the financial statements (including supplementary schedules of cash forecasts and budget comparisons)
- 109 -



and the details of the flow of funds.
19.   The Government will carry out ( or cause to be conducted) a financial assessment and
re-certification of the BMCs on an agreed cycle during the ?rogram. The Government and the
Co-operating Partners will develop a time-bound financial management improvement plan to rmitigate
any fiduciary risk identified in the financial management assessments and strengthen the Government's
fiduciary system. Enhancing the Government's fiduciary system and using it to implement the program
will strengthen ownership, internal capacity, and sustamability of the Program.
20.    Quarterly financial statements (accepted by IDA as the "Financial Monitoring iReports" defined
in its legal agreements) will be produced from reliable information systems that capture, classify,
analyze, and report data covering actual expenditures from sources of funding and budget item according
to each certified institution, procurement activities and physical progress; and report performance
progress on a quarterly basis within sixteen weeks after the end of the respective quarter. The
Co-operating partners recognize that there is a program for strengthening the capacities of the
Government of Ghana public financial management systems and processes supported by certain of the
Co-operating Partners (the Budget and Public Expenditure Management System (BPEMS) under the
PFMARP project). At such time as the Ministry of Health and the Co-operating Partners agree that the
strengthened Government of Ghana BPEMS is operating satisfactorily, the Government of Ghana
systems shall be used.
21.    Annual consolidated financial statements will be prepared for the agreed Annual Program of
Work of the Ministry of Health. The annual consolidated financial statements will be audited by the
Auditor General of Ghana jointly with an audit firm acceptable to the Co-operating Partners. The joint
auditor will be appointed by June 30, of each year. The Co-operating partners recognize that there is a
program for strengthening the capacities of the Auditor General of Ghana supported by certain of the
Co-operating Partners. At such time as the Auditor General of Ghana and the Co-operating Partners agree
that resources and capacities of Auditor General of Ghana are adequate, the audit of the annual
consolidated financial statements shall be by the Auditor General of Ghana solely. The terms of reference
for the audit shall be acceptable to the Government and the Co-operating Partners and the audit will be
conducted in accordance with international auditing standards, consistently applied. The report of such
audit will contain a separate opinion by said auditors as zo whether the quarterly financial statements
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the transactions of the Health Account, the balance of the
Health Account, and the contributions of the Government and Co-operating Partners.
22.    The findings of the audit of the annual consolidated financial statements of the Ministry of
Health, including the management letter, will be provided to all Co-operating Partners and the
Government by September 30 of each year. The Government will also provide the Co-operating Partners
with a proposed plan of action to correct any anomalies and errors identified in the financial audit.
Taking comments of the Co-operating Partners into account, the Government will implement such plan
of action in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Co-operating Partners.
V. Procurement
23.    By October 15th of each year, the Government will provide the Co-operating Partners for their
review and concurrence a draft annual procurement plan ("Procurement Plan"), which would include
on-going contracts rolling into the following year, and detailed procurement plans for the following year
prepared at district, regional and national levels based on the agreed Program of Work. Procurement Plan
will be approved by the Co-operating Partners by December 31. The Government and the Co-operating
- 110 -



Partners have agreed that all procurement above US$2,000,000 equivalent for civil works and
US$400,000 equivalent for goods shall be conducted using international competitive bidding ("ICB"), as
set forth in Section II of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits ("the
Guidelines") and consultants for contracts expected to cost above US$200,000 shall be recruited
internationally under procedures set forth in Sections I and IV of the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. (the "Consultant Guidelines"). It is understood
that some technical assistance supplied directly by partners will not fall under these conditions.
All procurement to be carried out under the Program for the following year will be included in the
Procurement Plan, and the methods of procurement will be indicated. (ICB, national competitive bidding
("NCB"), shopping, etc.)
24.    During implementation of the Procurement Plan, the Government will provide the Co-operating
Partners with quarterly procurement monitoring reports concerning progress in implementation of the
Procurement Plan and identify any contracts that were not included in the Procurement Plan adopted the
preceding year. The Government and Co-operating Partners will provide information to other
Co-operating Partners concerning the award of contracts and appointment of consultants, and any
material modifications of the terms and conditions of such contracts after their award.
25.    Co-operating Partners have jointly agreed on the procurement rules and procedures in the
Procurement Procedures Manual, which take into account the provisions of Annex 3. In order to ensure
that non-ICB procurement meets high standards of economy, competition, transparency and efficiency,
the Co-operating Partners and Government require all procurement in the Procurement Plan below the
thresholds for ICB to be procured under the procedures set out in Procurement Procedures Manual.
26.    With respect to each contract for goods or works above the thresholds for ICB, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the World Bank Procurement Guidelines shall apply. With
respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix I to the World Bank
Guidelines for Selection of Consultants shall apply.
27.    The Government has adopted a Procurement Procedures Manual satisfactory to the Co-operating
Partners that sets out the national and sectoral rules and procedures for non-ICB procurement in
accordance with the procedures set out in Annex 3. The Procurement Procedures Manual also contains a
reference to use of Bank's standard bidding documents.
28.    The Government intends to reform its public procurement procedures, and legislation on
procurement is currently under review by the Government. When a procurement law has been enacted,
the Co-operating Partners will deterrnine whether the law would ensure high standards of economy,
competition, transparency and efficiency in procurement. The Procurement Procedures Manual will be
updated, and Annex 3 will be revised where necessary to ensure that procurement under NCB in the
health sector will meet these standards.
29.    By December 31st of each year, the Government will appoint an independent agent to review the
procurement that took place during the preceding year. The Co-operating Partners will agree upon the
scope and Terms of Reference of this review ("procurement audits") and critena for selection of agents.
In addition, any Co-operating Partner may carry out its own procurement review of the contracts or
Health Account, which it has financed. The procurement audit will be completed and a report submitted
to Government by May 31st of each year. While procurement audits would normally be provided
annually, when particular nsks have been identified, any Co-operating Partner may request that a special
procurement audit be conducted, or may send additional procurement mnssions to the field for further
-1ill -



post reviews or investigations.
30.    The findings of the annual procurement audit will be provided to all Co-operating Partners and
the Government by June 30th of each year. Co-operating Partners will provide their commnents by July
31. The Government will by August 31st provide the Co-operating Partners with a proposed plan of
action to correct any anomalies and errors identified in the procurement audit or review. Taking
comments of the Co-operating Partners into account, the Government will implement such plan of action
in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Co-operating Partners.
31.    A Co-operating Partner will also provide the Government and other Partners with the results of
any other procurement review conducted by such Co-operating Partner.
32.   If cases of misprocurement occur, each Co-operating Partner may take the actions established in
its own guidelines, and any Co-operating Partner may decide, after consultation with the other Partners,
whether to cancel from its respective financing an amount equivalent to the contract amount multiplied
by its percentage participation in the Health Account. The other Co-operating Partners will make the
same determination in respect of their respective financing of that same contract.
VI. DisbuDrsements
33.    The Government will continue to maintain a separate control account in the records of the
Ministry of Health (the "Health Account") to record the financial resources contributed by each
Co-operating Partner to the Program, and expenditures ("the Health Account"). The financial resources
allocated to the Health Account may be used only for agreed purposes under the Annual Program of
Work. Based upon the Annual Program of Work, the Government and the Co-operating Partners, by
October 15th in each year, will establish the levels of their respective contributions to the Health Account
for the following fiscal year. Actual disbursement to the annual Program of Work will be contingent
upon Parliament's approval of the Medium Term Expenditure review and a Finance Bill which are
consistent with the agreements made between the Government and Co-operating Partners. The
contributions of the Co-operating Partners will be drawn down into the Health Account (or the Pooled
Aid Account in the case of earmarked funds) in accordance with the progress of the Program and
according to the budgetary and disbursement mechanisms of the Co-operating Partners.
34.    The Government will maintain two special deposit accounts in commercial banks for donors'
contributions to and disbursement from the Health Account. The first special deposit account will be in
US dollars. Contributions from Co-operating Partners to the Health Account will be made into the US
dollar account. Draw-downs in Cedis from the Health Account will be credited once per month to meet
forecast expenditures into a special deposit account for that purpose maintained in Ghana Cedis. Any
gains or losses on foreign exchange will be applied to the Program.
35.    Co-operating Partners will replenish the US dollar account in accordance with their budgetary
and disbursement mechanisms and implementation of the Annual Program of Work. Contributions to the
Health Account may be in the form of grants or other financing mechanisms for common Program
expenditures. Contributions to the pooled Aid Account may take the form of direct payments for certain
common Program expenditures. The Co-operating Partrers will report their disbursements and balances
for all contributions relating to the Program, including payments to the US dollar account, payments
made directly to suppliers, and other contributions to the Program.
36.   The Health Account and the pooled Aid Account will be operated by the Financial Controller of
the Ministry of Health. Funds from the Health Account will be disbursed only to certified institutions in
- 112 -



accordance with the Annual Program of Work. The MOH will develop modalities for funding private
sector and other non-government providers.
37.    Each quarter, the Govemment will provide a financial monitoring report for the preceding
quarter, and a reconciliation of the Health Account, together with copies of the bank statements.
Co-operating Partners will report their disbursements and balances for all contributions relating to the
Program, including contributions to the Health Account and pooled Aid Account (including payments
made directly to suppliers), or any other contributions (such as earmarked funds within the Program), on
a quarterly basis within eight weeks after the end of the quarter in order to establish a comprehensive
financial position for the Health Sector.
VII. Consultation, Information and Monitorin!
38.    The Government and Co-operating Partners will co-operate fully with each other on all matters
relating to the execution of the Program and on other matters of common interest to them. In particular,
the Co-operating Partners will send to each other for information copies of letters or notices to the
Government which in their judgement are of common concern to the Co-operating Partners. This would
include all awards of contracts to be financed by them under the Program that are not included in either of the Health
Accounts. The Government will inform the Co-operating Partners of all rnajor modifications of the terms
and conditions of contracts financed under the Program after their award.
39.    The Government will promptly consult with each of the Co-operating Partners whenever it
proposes to amend materially its proposals for the Program. Any dispute or controversy that arises in
relation to the Program should be settled by means of dialogue and consultation between the Parties, and
unilateral actions should be avoided. In the event that a dispute or controversy cannot be settled through
dialogue and consultation, a high level meeting will be arranged between the Government and the
Co-operating Partners. The Government and each Co-operating Partner will promptly consult with the
other Partners whenever it proposes to suspend or termninate, in whole or in part, payments to the Health
Account for financing the Program.
40.    If a Co-operating Partner invokes remedial measures or if financing from a Co-operating Partner
is no longer available for the Program, the Government will promptly review and make necessary
revisions to the Program, in consultation with the Co-operating Partners and Government, to ensure that
the expenditure framework corresponds to the available resource envelope.
41.    Government will also organize two yearly review meetings (the "Health Sumnmit") to discuss
with Partners 1) the results of the independent sector performance review and 2) the Program of Work for
the following year. Each Health Summit will produce an Aide Memoire containing the agreements made
between Government and Partners. The Aide Memoire is signed by the Minister of Health and
representatives of the Co-operating Partners.
42.    The Government will ensure that systems are set up to effectively monitor policy implementation
and outcomes. The MOH and Co-operating Partners will consult on the timing, terms of reference and
composition of nissions well in advance.
43.    The procedures outlined in this Memorandum, including those for procurement, financial
management and the sharing of information, may, as necessary, be subject to review by the Government
and the Co-operating Partners.
- 113 -



VIII. Additional Co-operating Partners
44.    Any government, institution, or other entity not currently a party to this Memorandum of
Understanding may, by agreement with the Government, and upon notice to the other Co-operating
Partners, become an additional Co-operating Partner.
- 114 -



IBRD 28665
r.               r                1*               a.                p                 r
BURKINA FASO
1*         -g.-I                                 0   Ph,kn
O2iri  0           .ICucuigo 
\OLowso  Hon   9bUpp~~~BOLGTAGA  T  kou                       HN
UPPER           ES
0 a WET  /<%  °S           HEALTH SECTOR
l!   oYo.k  q X  0   ONo.io    S      (     SUPPORT PROGRA
rr      WAt3 Bulongo k  fS(I            Pig.  Korg5 .J1
WA     Rn                     '   °                               REGION HEADQUARTERS
<  _  ;   >   Wup7/i  b.  * NATIONAL CAPFTAL
N O R T H E R N                         -   S 2 8,! R E G IO N   B O U N D A R I E S
V \               gNO~~~RTHERN                u 
-)   <   ITAMALEg  5 oYandig  )  ''- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0S-irch   °         un           |Ch-m'ulgu      Zbg
~~u/Churdre 0~~~~~~~~- 
0                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.
thMt'Unit of eWol
D'IVOIRE                                                                F                   IBank s
Binrb0e ~The boundaries, colors,
,./ denominations and  any
0Chindi           other i,,formation shoern
on this mop do not
D.imply, on  the  port of
The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal
stotus  of  any  territory,
BRONG;-A   F                   r'        I    or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
7                                                I~~~~~~~ok  -i-  XAJ(   boundaries.
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                     u  o  501600_5X\
20     30  40  50e wuEn
ziommoo  SUNYANI  )                               t          o  o  40  50 I  I
w                    C~~~~~~~    ~      ~      ~~~~~~~ M-ompog  0 rt  I    0mc
( >  Gr°oso t           ~~ASHANTI              AgC      oh             OOr
KUMASI |                                O HOor         TOGO
\ Ntrog oAmonom-g|t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZN             VOLTA
u*S.NA                                     KOFORIDUA®           M.DobuIs  D
r \ OSso~~~~nkn.wJOo°t 
_   EnOIIiD  0  How u enI,rsg,mmo   ~             hime 
;WESTERN       -E>                         s/ACCRA
elubo  Pn   ts            X    W  AC~~~~   ~    ~~CRA.                    r
OTurkw -                                     MAURIITIANU\ 
" Mpchb. NG NGRa
~CAE ;,C<ND. lH        E 'J                    a      Cbod  fl
Esi.-                            TH~~~~~~~~~~EGAMBWG-Z   c'GEot  OA . a
5* ~~~~~~~~~0G5IN /EA'                                              ~      ~. h
KONDI                                   VE-~~~~~~~~~tIau  ucu i,~  NIGEtA
GULF OF GUINEA          Ul               V    OCr ,i ~   ( RCsAN REtWBUC
5)2061O6ONM/RlA  I
OPNCEPE   OF CONGO
September 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:         24842   GH
Type:      PAD



