Report No. 23385
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/12/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GHANA Project ID: P073649
Project: Ghana- Health Sector Program Support Credit II
Task Team Leader: Francois Decaillet
Appraisal Date: February 15, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: July 2, 2002         IDA Amount ($m): 50.00
Managing Unit: AFTH3     Sector: HA - HIV/AIDS; HC - Primary Health; Including
Reproductive Health; Chi; HO - Hospitals; Secondary & Tertiary; HR -
Reform and Financing; HS - Specific Diseases; including Malaria; TB; Others
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of   the proposed Health Sector Program Support
Credit II  is to support efforts by the Government of Ghana (GOG) to
improve the health status of the population while reducing the
geographical, socio-economic and gender inequalities. Building on
progress achieved in recent years, and with financing of the Health Sector
Program Support Project-I (1998-2002), the proposed Credit would support
the Ministry of Health to implement its Medium-Term Health Strategy (MTHS)
and 2002-2006 Program of Work (POW). To achieve the objectives defined in
the POW, the Health Sector Support Program Credit II would finance a
portion of the combined Government and external assistance budgets for
policy development and operational activities.
The Comprehensive Development Framework principles guide the World
Bank's support to health sector development in Ghana as follows:
A long term vision and strategy: The long term vision and development
goals for Ghana are outlined in Ghana-Vision 2020. The process of
preparing Ghana-Vision 2020: Second Step is underway. The Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (2000-2002) also provides important guidance for
action. IDA would follow the Government's vision and strategies defined
in the Medium-Term Health Strategy.
Clear country ownership of development goals and actions: Based on lessons
learned from the development and implementation of 1997-2001 POW, the
Ministry of Health is developing the next 5-Year POW. The preparation
process is highly consultative. IDA financing will be disbursed within
the framework of the POW using a sector-wide approach (SWAP) where
national institutions and procedures will be followed.
Strategic partnership among stakeholders: The Ministry of Health (MOH)
has developed a strong partnership with its internal and external
partners. This is particularly true for the relationship between the MOH
and core group of partners ( WHO, DFID, DANIDA, the World Bank, the
Netherlands, the European Union and the Nordic Development Fund) which
signed a Memorandum of Understanding in 1997. Guided by the Sector Wide
Approach (SWAP), they are partially but increasingly pooling their funds
into a common Health Account and use common national procurement and
financial procedures. The Bank would work according to the principles and
rules spelled out in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).
Accountability for development results: Since 1998, comprehensive



performance reviews have been conducted annually. The review reports have
been discussed at the district, regional and national levels. All review
meetings have been opened to representatives from other government
sectors, the political minority, civil society and the private sector.
The World Bank would use the MOH's monitoring and evaluation system.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Medium Term Health Strategy, the 2002-2006 Program of Work, and the
annual Programs of Work and Budgets prepared by the Ministry of Healthwill
provide the framework under which all stakeholders and the Bank will
work. The proposed Credit would finance a portion of the combined
Government and external assistance budgets for policy development and
operational activities. IDA would provide a baseline financing of US$ 8
million a year which may be adjusted up to 50t at each annual budget
agreement. Once the IDA Credit is 75t disbursed, a new Credit will be
prepared to finance subsequent phases of the POW.
The rationale for adjusting the annual IDA allocation will be based on the
following factors:
Existence of a gap between budget and available finance that cannot be
covered by grant funds,
Evidence of increased GOG allocations to the health sector,
Evidence of progress in sector performance, in particular an increase in
utilization of services and improved health outcomes in the poorest parts
of the country.
The end-of-previous-year balance in the US$ Health Account not exceeding
30t of the total annual donor contributions.
The annual sector financing commitment by IDA would be approved by the
Country Director and based on recommendations of the Bank team resulting
from the discussions with Government and the Collaborating agencies. Each
of the factors influencing the annual IDA allocation would be regularly
reviewed by the GOG and the development partners.
Estimated IDA disbursements in US$ million- GOG fiscal years
2002    2003    2004     2005    2006
Maximum annual   8       12      12      12       12
Maximum cumulative       8       20      32       44*     56
Low case annual 8        8       8       8       8
Low case cumulative      8       16      24      32       40
*A new credit would be sought after US$ 37.5 million is disbursed
Prerequisites for IDA transfers would be:
The organization by the Borrower of an annual sector performance review
and presentation/discussion of the review report during the April/May
health summit and endorsement of the review conclusions;
The presentation by the Borrower of a draft annual POW during the
September health summit and endorsement of this POW by all core donors;
Submission by the borrower of the annual MOH budget that is submitted to
the parliament; and
Submission of the external independent procurement and financial
- 2 -



management audits for the previous year.
IDA could postpone its quarterly disbursements into the Health Account
if at the end of previous quarter the balance in the US$ Health account
exceeds 30? of the   donor commitments for the year considered or if funds
allocated have not been transferred in due time and according to plans to
the Budget Management Centers.
In addition to its financial support, in close collaboration with other
external partners, the Bank team will contribute to the policy and
strategic dialogue and technical discussions and provide day to day
implementation support. The Bank team will assess the quality of the
reporting on performance indicators through missions organized in
collaboration, if not jointly, with other donor agencies and will
contribute to the sector performance reviews carried out by the Ministry
of Health.
Components:
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
NA.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: An environmental analysis will be performed i) to assess
potential environmental and social impacts that could emanate form the
program, ii) to assist MOH in defining actions to mitigate the
environemental and social adverse effect of its activities and iii) to
assist MOh in planning for the buiding up of its capacity on the longer to
term to address health related environment issues.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)        No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
-3 -



significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The MOH ran several workshops and seminars during the development of the
health sector reform strategy in which key stakeholders participated
intensively. Other such consultations will take place, ensuring that the
views and concerns of all stakeholders will be reflected at different
stages in the planning, design and implementation of the proposed project.
Participatory monitoring and evaluation will be only one of the mechanisms
to ensure that beneficiaries are consulted, thereby ensuring
sustainability of the proposed project. The participatory review and
planning process, established by the MOH and involving, inter alia, BMCs,
medical staff, NGOs, the private sector, academia, and donors, has already
established participation as the norm and this is expected to continue in
the future reach agreement on the proposed project and to assess its
performance and allocate funds during project implementation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
-4-



Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Francois Decaillet       11/08/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         11/14/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Rosemary Bellew 11/08/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\Dec 21, 2001\I073649.txt
December 12, 2001 6:13 PM
-5-



