Report No. PID10725
Project Name             GHANA-HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT (@)
PROJECT II
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Health (100%)
Project ID               P073649
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: PO BOX MB-44, ACCRA
Contact Person: Dr. Kwaku AFRIYIE
Tel: (233) 21 665323
Fax: (233) 21 663810
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        December 17, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      November 6, 2002
Bank Approval Date       January 30, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Country Background.
By international standards, Ghana GDP growth has been relatively good
4-5 percent per annum on average during the last 15 years). Following the
initiation of Ghana's structural reform program in 1983, economic growth
was rapid (5.2% p.a.) in 1985-89. Growth became much more volatile and
exhibited a downward trend during the first half of the 1990s when the
reform process stalled. Since then, the economic growth displayed a rising
trend with the exception of 2000, when fiscal lapses during the election
year resulted in a financial crisis and substantial exchange rate
devaluation. Ghana's economic development has been accompanied by a steady
reduction in poverty. Compared with other countries with similar growth
rates, Ghana's poverty reduction appears quite rapid, decreasing from 52 %
in 1992 to 40 % of the population in 1999, while the economy grew by 4.3%
p.a. on average. Compared to other countries, Ghana's income inequality is
low, which may explain why economic growth has such relative large impact
on poverty reduction
On January 7, 2001, the newly elected government inherited a difficult
fiscal and social situation. Due to shortcomings in fiscal management and
delays in adjusting public utility prices, the fiscal and quasi fiscal
deficit had reached an estimated 23% of GDP in 2000, while contingent
fiscal liabilities amounted to 8 percent of GDP. Both factors created the
prospects of a debt trap with rising fiscal deficits being caused by
domestic debt build-up and high real interest rates. Since then the
Government has put in place a macro-economic program aimed at getting
Ghana out of its debt trap by drastically reducing government's borrowing,
cutting public enterprises' deficit and restructuring the domestic debt.
As a result of much tighter fiscal and monetary policies, the exchange
rate stabilized , external reserves reached 1.5 months of imports and the



domestic financing of the budget was cut from 8 W of GDP in 2000 to 0.8 ;
in 2001. The new government also decided to avail itself of the debt
relief possible under the HIPC initiative. In February 2002, Ghana reached
its HIPC decision point with a floating completion point expected to be
reached by end-2003. The debt relief provided under the HIPC Initiative
would amount to an average of US$ 215 million per year in 2002-2011.
The macroeconomic outlook for the period 2002-2006 depends crucially on
the success in generating a domestic primary fiscal surplus. Without
better expenditure control-especially on the capital budget- and improved
revenue collection, stabilization will not been achieved. The 5t growth in
GDP projected is to come from improved agricultural performance,
industrial recovery and continued service sector growth.
Health sector situation
During the past decade, the health status of the population has
significantly improved, reflecting progress achieved in several
directions, including in the delivery of essential health services. From
1988 to 1998, life expectancy at birth has continued to increase while
infant and under five mortality rates have been significantly reduced ( by
25%). Fertility has declined markedly in every age group with a nearly
two child drop in the total fertility rate over the last decade. Ghana
compares generally very favorably with other African countries. If
trends recorded during the first part of the 90's have been maintained,
Ghana would be moderately off track or almost on track with the Millennium
Development Goals.    ( the next Demographic and Health Survey is planned
for 2003)
Considering the low level of total spending on health (about US$20), Ghana
has achieved a great deal. Progress towards achieving the health targets
has, however, been less than anticipated and the spread of the gain in
terms of improved health has been relatively inequitable. Outstanding
challenges still confronting the health sector include the high maternal
mortality rates, the persistence of communicable diseases like malaria and
tuberculosis, and the newly emerging non communicable diseases and
relatively high levels of death and injury from road traffic accidents.
With a sero-prevalence at 3%, HIV/AIDS poses a major threat to health and
development.
During the period of the first Program of Work-POW of the Ministry of
Health (1997-2001), 1) Geographical access to static health services
continued to improve and utilization of publicly financed services
increased by 25% , the   highest increase in utilization (95%) being
observed in the Northern (and poorer) belt of the country., 2) The
coverage of key essential public health services was significantly
improved. Immunization against measles increased from 57% in 1997 to
82.4% in 2001 while DPT3 rose from 51% in 1996 to about    80% in 2001.  The
TT2  immunization rate went up from 37% in 1996 to 73% in 2001.    Antenatal
coverage increased from 84% in 1996 to 98% in 2001.    Supervised deliveries
went from 38t in 1996 up to 52t in 2000 and post natal coverage (1 visit)
increased from 33% in 1996 to 50% in 2001.
-2-



Main sector Issues:
Five main issues deserve particular attention in the context of the
2002-2006 Program of Work : (a) the persistence of deep inequalities in
health, (b) the chronic under funding of the health sector, (c) the
intense brain drain and unequal distribution of staff, (d) the untapped
potential contribution from private providers and, e) the potential
devastating impact of HIV/AIDS on the health sector, the economy and the
society which makes it the single most important issue in the years to
come.
a) Persistence of deep inequalities in health:
A "Profile of health inequalities in Ghana" was prepared in 2000 to
define the extent of health inequalities in terms of health outcomes,
gender, urban-rural location, regions, incomes, health resource allocation
and health expenditure. The Profile showed that, in Ghana, the largest
differential in health outcomes is by region of residence with the least
differential being by gender. However, it was also observed that between
1988 and 1998, urban-rural differentials have got worse whereas regional
differentials have remained, on the whole, largely constant. The northern
section of the country is significantly disadvantaged on multiple health
dimensions. The Under Five mortality rate there is 2.5 times higher than
in the Greater Accra Region. Whereas the rate in Greater Accra Region is
62, it is 171 in the Northern Region, 156 in the Upper West Region and 155
in the Upper East Region. As a result of both higher public and private
investments, health facility distribution also favors most affluent
regions.  The Greater Accra Region with about 12t of the national
population account for 42t of total public doctors and 18t of hospital
beds.   In contrast the northern regions with 20t of the population account
for 6t of total doctors and 14t of the total hospital beds.
A disproportionate share of the funds is allocated to urban areas. It has
also been estimated that the richest households benefit about three times
more from government expenditures on health than the poorest (Canagarajah
S and Xiao, WB, 2000). More positively, it has been observed that, on the
whole, women benefit more than men from government expenditure on health
b) Under funding of the health sector.
The percentage of GDP allocated to public health care expenditures from
government revenue through MOH decreased to reach a low level of barely 1l
in the mid90s. With the start of the POW I, these allocations were
increased and total public health care expenditures (incl. donor funding)
amounted to around 2.3w of GDP over the period. The MOH recurrent
expenditures as a percentage of total GOG recurrent expenditures (narrow,
excl. interest) have decreased from 11.19 in 1991 to around 7T during the
period 1994-96, but increased again to reach 11.49 in 2000 and 11.0w in
2001. During the same period, the share of the total government
expenditures (all items) spent in the health sector decreased from 8.2w in
1991 to a level of around 4.6w in 1994-97 with a slight upward trend that
continued ending at 6.9w in 2001. In spite of recent GOG efforts to
increase its allocations to the health sector and mainly due to
macro-economic constraints, total spending on health remains very low,
estimated at about US$20 per capita, out of which approximately US$14
-3 -



(70%) are private expenditures.   Excluding foreign finance, public health
spending reached US$4.2 in 2000, below the level of US$6 available at the
beginning of the 1990s and far below the level of US$10 per capita in
1978. Including external finance, the per capita public health spending
was estimated at about US$6.4 in 2000.
Continued progress will require a substantial increase in financing. In
the current economic context, user fees and out-of-pocket payments cannot
be increased much further without exacerbating inequalities. The GOG is
committed not to increase out of limits the private payments, to
progressively abolish the "Cash and Carry" front payment system and
replace it with health insurance and community based prepayment schemes.
Therefore, the required additional resources will have to come firstly
from an increase in GOG budget allocations to the health sector (including
inter alia funds freed by the HIPC debt relief initiative) and secondly
from an increase in donor contributions to the MOH POW.
c) Intense brain-drain
The two national medical schools together train about 120 doctors, while
the school of pharmacy trains about 80 pharmacists per annum respectively.
All work at full capacity. Ghana also trains about 400 State Registered
Nurses, 250 midwives and 200 Community Health Nurses annually and could
produce more if the capacity of the schools is fully and effectively
utilized. The final output, however, only just makes up for staff loss
through attrition and brain drain every year. Government sources suggest
that there are more Ghanaian doctors working abroad than in Ghana and that
the total number of nurses working in Ghana has dropped from about 30,000
in the early 1990's to about 20,000 at present.
Due to the low level of emoluments paid in Ghana and the attractiveness of
international labor markets, it is unlikely that the exodus of health
personnel can be stopped. Pragmatic interventions can certainly help
retain at least the critical mass of health professionals required to
deliver a package of basic services. However, it is unlikely that human
resource issues can be addressed effectively without significantly
increasing the wage bill. This poses a major challenge in terms of
sustainability, as the health sector wage bill will need to be contained
within an affordable sector budget.
c) Untapped potential for contribution from non government health service
providers
The private provision of health care in Ghana is quite substantial and is
recognized as an important and growing source of health services. Among
the hospitals, 47% are government owned, 22% operate on a private not for
profit basis and 31% on a private for profit basis.    While the tertiary
and secondary hospital and the health center levels are dominated by the
government facilities, the lower level services are more pluralistic. It
is estimated that in 1998/1999 almost half of all visits to health
facilities occurred in the private sector . The mission facilities alone
are estimated to cover 40% of the population, supplying an estimated 30%
of beds and 35% of outpatient care.
The Government has supported the need for closer cooperation with the
-4 -



private sector throughout the 1990's. In many districts, the mission
hospitals provide essential services and receive funds from MOH to pay
salaries of staff seconded from MOH. Some mission hospitals that have
been designated as district hospitals receive funds to cover other running
costs. However, this has been very slow to reach its potential despite
the establishment of a Private Sector Unit in the Ministry in 1997. The
new government is however, emphasizing more strongly the importance of
involving the private sector more in integrated service delivery and is
committed to increasing its role in curative service to 65t in the long
term.
d) HIV/AIDS.
The recently created Ghana AIDS Commission (GAC) estimates that the
national sero-prevalence could rise from the current 3t to somewhere in
the range of 4 to 9t in 2014, depending on the efficiency of prevention
and control measures. At the current rate of infection, by the year 2005,
1.2 million people will be living with HIV and there will be about 200,000
children orphaned by AIDS. The potential devastating impact of AIDS on
the health sector, the economy and the society makes it one the single
most important issues in the years to come.
The HIV/AIDS epidemic has for some years now been receiving more attention
from government. A "strategic framework for HIV/AIDS" has been prepared
to enable Ghana to implement a balanced, diversified, multi-sector
response, engaging all relevant government sectors, nongovernmental
organizations and grassroots initiatives.
2. Objectives
The overall objective of the 2002-2006 MOH Program of work- titled
"Partnerships for Health: Bridging the inequalities gap"- is to improve
the health status of the population while reducing the geographical,
socioeconomic and gender inequalities in health outcomes.
The IDA financed Health Sector Program Support Project-II (HSPSP-II)
will support the Government of Ghana efforts towards the above mentioned
objective and the Ministry of Health in implementing its 2002-2006
Program of Work (POW-II), through financing a portion of the combined
Government and external assistance budgets for policy development and
operational program activities, including on going service delivery and
new initiatives.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
There are several development agencies active in the health sector in
Ghana, contributing with both financing and technical assistance to the
MOH Program of Work. Although increasing, their financial support remains
relatively insufficient to raise the total public health expenditure up
to a level where the cost of a basic package of health intervention can be
covered. The financial support of the Bank will bring one additional US$
dollar per capita and per year and will help cover the financing gap.
The day to day implementation support of the Bank team will assist the MOH
in improving its procurement and financial management systems. These are
areas where the comparative advantage of the Bank is acknowledged by both
the MOH and the partners. Waiting for the National Laws and Procedures to
- 5-



be improved up to a level acceptable by all partners, the World Bank
procurement procedures will be used for all ICB contracts to be financed
under the Program, irrespective of the source of funding ( GOG budget and
the Health Account). The fact that the World Bank will keep an oversight
on procurement makes partners in the pool more confident regarding the use
of resources.
The Bank has gained substantial experience in supporting health sector
reform programs and cost effective health interventions. Acting as a
knowledge broker, the Bank will    team bring this knowledge and experience
to Ghana including sharing best practices approaches from other countries
to addressing specific health problems as well as fostering a debate on
new ways of doing business in the health sector, with a particular focus
on continuing further programmatic support, promoting public-private
partnerships, new ways of addressing human and financial resource
challenges, and broadening health financing options.
The Bank also plays an important role in the overall policy dialogue with
the GOG. It is engaged in policy-related programs particularly at the
macro-level and this will help improve the consistency between the
health, economic and development policies. This has proven to be
effective in the past. For instance when the new government had to put in
place tighter fiscal and monetary policies, the Bank's interventions
sectors resulted in a relative protection of HD sector from cutbacks.
4. Description
Government Strategy and Program of Work
The 2002-2006 Ministry of health Program of Work ( POW-II) is an integral
part of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS).
The objective for the period 2002-2006 is to continue to improve the
health status of the population while focusing efforts on reducing
inequalities in health.
The POW-II serves as a plan for the whole health sector and describes
those health activities funded through public resources, including
Government, donors, and internally generated funds. The Program covers
both policy development and operational activities and ongoing delivery as
well as new initiatives. The details of the MOH POW are expected to
change from year to year as reflected in annual work programs and budgets.
The POW-II is built on five strategic pillars (the same as for the POW-
I): 1) To increase (geographical, financial and socio-cultural) access to
health services, 2) To improve quality of health delivery, improving
health worker performance and responsiveness to clients needs, 3) To
improve the efficiency of health service delivery, improving cost
effectiveness and planning, management and administration, 4) To foster
partnerships in improving health (with households and communities, between
public and private providers, with other ministries, departments and
agencies, with development partners and 5) To improve financing of the
health sector, extending prepayments schemes to replace the "Cash and
Carry" systems, developing an appropriate policy and regulatory
environment for health insurance, increasing public expenditure on the
poor and vulnerable.
-6-



Within the overall framework, the MOH will focus its efforts on the 10
following areas: 1-Strengthening priority health interventions, 2)
Developing human resources for health services, 3) - Enhancing
infrastructure and support services, 4) Fostering partnerships for health,
and promoting private sector participation in health service delivery, 5)
Improving regulation, 6) Reforming organizational arrangements, 7)
Improving the health sector financing, 8) Improving financial management
systems, 9) Further strengthening management information systems and
performance monitoring, 10) Linking with traditional medicine.
The projected resource envelope for the POW-II operates with a high and
low case scenario. The total resource envelope for the 5 year sector
program is estimated to be US$ 1.013 million in the low case scenario and
US$ 1,113 million in the high case scenario. The MOH Program of Work will
continue to be funded from four broad sources: (i) Government budget will
finance 50% o the total Program budget, (ii) Internally Generated Funds
(IGF- user fees) will finance about 11% , (iii) the donor Health Fund and
(iv) other parallel donor financed activities (traditional projects,
earmarked funds) will finance the remaining 38/399 of the total cost.
The sector policy guidelines for resource allocation are to: (i) make
more resources available for the attainment of universal access to primary
health services, (ii) achieve a better balance between development and
recurrent budgets and, (iii) realign existing inequalities in regional
allocations.
The US$237 million proposed capital investment plan is based on the
following set of guiding principles: retention of staff through the
provision of staff accommodation; development of human resource capacity
through the rehabilitation and expansion of training schools; reduction of
geographical inequities in accessing health care; enhancing
complementarity to avoid duplication at all level levels; increased
collaboration and partnership between Ministries Department and Agencies
(MDA's) Development Partners and the Private Sector; and Directing
adequate resources to the provision of facilities in the deprived regions
in line with the GPRS.
On average, 43? of the total resource envelope will be allocated to wages.
The share for wages is planned to increase from 38% in 2002 to 48% in 2006
in order to recruit and maintain the necessary staff. On average, 43% of
the total resource envelope will be allocated to cover the costs of
administration and services (item 2 and 3). Only minor shifts in resource
allocation by level of service of non-wage recurrent costs (item 2-3)
between levels are planned with the share of resources to the district
level maintained at about 42%. This implies that the expected increase
in the resource envelope for non-wage recurrent costs will primarily
benefit the lower levels of care. The three northern regions and Central
region have been identified as priority areas. Overall the percentage of
recurrent expenditure on disadvantages districts of the country should
increase. Therefore, the target is to allocate 39% of recurrent
expenditures to the three northern and central regions (which amount for
26.7% of total population of Ghana according to the 2000 population
census).
IDA Support
-7-



The IDA Financing ( including a US$ 15.9 million Grant and a US$ 71.4
million IDA credit) will finance a portion of the combined Government and
external assistance budgets for policy development and operational
activities, and both on-going service delivery and new initiatives. The
2002-2006 Program of Work, the detailed annual Work Programs, Budgets and
procurement plans prepared by the Ministry of Health will continue to
provide the basis for which the World Bank will operate. IDA will first
provide US$7.5 million in reimbursement of expenditures incurred in 2002.
IDA will then provide US$ 15 million in 2003 and a baseline financing of
US$20 million per year in, 2004, 2005 and 2006. A US$7.5 million
unallocated component is set aside to allow for adjustment of the annual
IDA allocation during the implementation of the POW.
Prerequisites for IDA transfers would be as follows: 1- Organization by
the Borrower of an annual sector performance review and
presentation/discussion with stakeholders including the civil society and
the development partners of the review report during the April/May health
summit and endorsement of the review findings and conclusions; 2-
Presentation by the Borrower of a draft annual POW for the upcoming year
during the September/October Health Summit and endorsement of this POW by
all core donors and, submission for review and clearance by the Bank of a
three year rolling procurement plan.3- Submission by the Borrower of the
annual MOH budget that is submitted to parliament; and, 4-Submission of
the external independent procurement and financial management audits for
the previous year as well as action plans to address issues identified.
In addition to its financial support, the Bank will provide implementation
support.
Year 2002: US$ 7.5
Year 2003: US$ 15 million
Year 2004: US$ 20 million
Year 2005: US$ 20 million
Year 2006: US$ 27.5 (including the 7.5 US$ million unallocated component
for adjustment of the IDA allocation
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $637.86
IBRD
IDA $74.10
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $75.00
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST COUNTRY $15.90
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED) $310.00
Total Project Cost $1112.86
6. Implementation
Program implementation arrangements
The program will be implemented through the regular channels of the
Government. The MOH will remain responsible for policy, monitoring,
coordination of donors and inter-sectoral agencies, and public financing
for health services as well as regulation within the sector. The Ghana
Health Service and two Teaching Hospital Boards have been established to
- 8 -



manage the delivery of a decentralized public health service more
efficiently. District Health Administrations, located in each of the 110
districts, are responsible for organizing the local provision of health
services. All these will prepare and implement health budgets and monitor
the performance of serviced delivery with responsibility and authority
delegated to various (about 350) Budget Management Centers-BMCs. All BMCs
will prepare annual plans and budgets for their area of responsibility
according to issued guidelines and budgetary ceilings with regard to
non-salary recurrent expenditures, for which they will be provided with
finances.
Agreement has been made between donors and MOH to use, as far as
possible, common implementation arrangements for planning and budgeting,
implementation, including procurement of civil works, goods and TA, as
well as financial management (disbursement and management of funds,
accounting and audit) and reporting on progress.
Institutional arrangements: There will be no separate implementation unit
and the World Bank support will be implemented using the regular channels
of the Government. The MOH will remain responsible for policy, performance
monitoring and coordination of partners, whereas the Ghana Health Service,
the Teaching Hospitals Boards and other Budget Management Centers as well
as the contracted mission sector will be the executing agencies.
IDA Disbursements: No IDA Special Account will be established. Most of the
funds committed by IDA will be disbursed directly into the common separate
US dollar bank account under the Health Account. The Health Account is
under the direct control of MOH headquarters and the Controller and
Accountant General. These disbursements by the Bank will be made in
reimbursement of a portion of already incurred expenditures. Withdrawal
applications will be submitted to the Bank by the Financial Controller of
the MOH. IDA funds are planned, in principle, to be disbursed into the
Health Account on a quarterly basis. However, this periodicity could be
revised and IDA direct disbursements into the Health Account used as a
swing payment" to help manage cash flow variations of the MOH. The MOH
will have also the option to request part of the credit to be drawn down
using the Bank's direct payment and special commitment procedures.
Although it is not possible to determine ex-ante the exact portion of the
Credit that may be used under this disbursement procedure, it is expected
that a part of the annual credit funds will be used to assist MOH with:
1) Advance payments to the UN agencies for the supply of vaccines, drugs,
medical equipment and vehicles and, 2) direct payments to international
suppliers for major procurement for MOH carried out using ICB procedures.
Flow of funds The MOH operate 1) a US dollar account into which all donor
contribution (from those donors participating in the pooled arrangements)
are paid to finance the agreed POW and, 2) a Ghana cedi account into which
transfers from the dollar account are paid. A separate Ghana cedi account
will be used for the funds provided by GOG. Funds are then transferred
to the BMCs accounts. All BMCs operate at least three accounts for a)
Government of Ghana releases, 2) donor pooled funds from the Health
Account and 3) internally generated funds. Once IDA and other donor funds
reach the Health Account, there will be no further identification of the
origins of funds by donor
9



Eligible expenditures: The Health Fund (and therefore the IDA credit funds
pooled into the Health Account) will not finance wages, honorarium and
salary top-ups, taxes and land acquisition. Eligible expenditures
include all non wage categories of expenditures, including civil works,
goods and services, drugs, vehicles, operating costs, training and
consultants as long as these conform to the approved annual budget, work
program and budget as well as procurement plan and adhere to the agreed
procurement procedures.
Procurement: All procurement under the Program of Work will be carried
out following the provisions of the Procurement procedures Manual of the
MOH. As agreed with MOH and partners, all contracts for works, goods
financed under the Program (including those funded directly by the
Government) through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and consulting
services will be procured in accordance with the relevant World Bank's
Guidelines. In the event of mis-procurement (whether identified in the
annual audits or otherwise), IDA will reserve the right to declare
mis-procurement on any contract in the joint financed pool and will cancel
the entirety of the declared mis-procured contract or a part of the credit
based on IDA' share of the pool .
Accounting procedures and financial reporting: The MOH's own financial
accounting manual- known as the Accounting Treasury and Financial
procedure rule book (ATF rules) adopted in 1998 will continue to be used
to guide financial management staff in the conduct of their operational
activities. Budgeting and reporting systems will continue to be
maintained at adequate levels and accounting staff of all Budget
Management Centers will be re-trained in the use of the rule book. As a
condition for effectiveness, the MOH will adopt a Financial Procedures
supplement satisfactory to the co-operating partners setting out any
additional financial management arrangements, organizational structure
(including internal audit function), staffing, standard accounting forms,
books, ledgers and reporting format content and frequency of the regular
financial monitoring reports to be provided by MOH during the
implementation of the Program. .
Budget Management Centers-BMC will submit monthly financial report to the
next higher levels. he regional level will monthly consolidate all reports
for the region and submit it quarterly to the Reporting and Analyzing Unit
in the Finance Department in MOH.Quarterly consolidated financial
statements for the entire sector will continue to be prepared and
certified, as since the inception of the first program, by the MOH
Financial Controller.
Auditing: In addition to internal audits carried out by the MOH and the
GOG Auditor General Office, the MOH will appoint 1) an independent
auditor acceptable to the Co-operating partners to audit the consolidated
set of financial statements (including the financial monitoring reports
and Health Account) for the overall Program of Work of the MOH for each
fiscal year ended. The TOR for the audit shall be acceptable to the
cooperating partners and the audit will have to be conducted in accordance
with auditing standards acceptable to the Co-operating partners,
consistently applied and ii) an independent agent to review the
procurement that took place during the end. While audits would normally
be provided annually, when particular risks have been identified, any
- 10 -



cooperating partners (and the Bank) may request a special audit to be
conducted or may send addition missions for further investigations.
Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements: Joint government and donor
monitoring of the program will occur on a regular schedule. Government
and donors have agreed on a set of 25 indicators (30 including health
status indicators) to monitor the sector performance and sector wide
progress over the years. This system will be progressively extended to
private facilities and MOH will regularly compare the performance of
public and private services (as it has been done already for hospitals).On
the basis of the regional reports as well as other specific studies and
surveys, an independent team (comprising both local and international
experts) will annually appraise the overall sector performance and will
identify policy and strategic issues and make recommendations for action.
The independent report will then be presented and discussed with MOH and
all interested parties during the April/May health summits.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the Program would be determined by two key elements:
(i) ownership and, (ii) the availability of financial resources (including
donor funds).
The Ghana Health Sector Program has been designed and prepared through a
participative process that included a large number of stakeholders
including the civil society and the mission and private sector. Together
with the improved transparency in the planning, budgeting,
implementation, reporting, accounting , auditing and monitoring
processes, the organization of annual health sector performance reviews
and other consultation mechanisms will continue to increase ownership.
Availability of sufficient financial resources for the sector, which
depends mainly on a) macro economic and fiscal factors, b) policy
decisions at the GOG level regarding allocations to the sector and c) the
continuation of the good relationship between GOG and donors.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank and MOH have been collaborating for more than 15 years. Many
lessons have been drawn from this collaboration and the implementation of
various types of support provided by the Bank. The first lesson learned is
that systemic improvement in health and behavior change requires a
long-term and sustained effort.
The SWAP approach has given rise to a strong partnership between core
donors and MOH. From this experience, we learned that a more
comprehensive approach is useful if: (i) national development policies
provide the framework for strategic planning and partner/stakeholder
participation; (ii) resource allocation is linked to objectives and
results; and (iii) the "natural tendency" to duplicate efforts is reduced
through interaction and dialogue. This experience has clearly
demonstrated that appropriate efforts and investments can rapidly build up
national capacity and significantly improve systems.
The effects of the budget support in terms of generally improved
performance are obviously quite difficult to track. First of all, impact
- 11 -



and even outputs are influenced by a number of factors mostly outside the
control of a donor and many even beyond the control of the government.
Secondly, in severely under-financed systems the marginal effect of donor
support is quite difficult to estimate, as the under-financing renders
many assumptions and factors difficult to assess, for example, staff
efficiency. Nevertheless, the Ghana sector programme or SWAP is
internationally recognized as one of the few actually producing tangible
improvements.
We also noticed that governance was improved when donors used national
systems and procedures instead of their own. Although it has survived a
number of conflicts, the unique relationship between Government and donors
is still relatively fragile. It is largely dependent on the capacity of
both the MOH and donor agency staff to keep the dialogue going and to
compromise when needed. To do this, donors need to keep up to date on
developments in the sector. A local technical presence is necessary to
maintain the technical and policy dialogue; more frequent missions are
needed; and the donor team must include an adequate skill mix with
capacity to analyze the issues and propose alternatives.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The MOH program is not expected to generate major
adverse environmental effects. Possible environmental risks include the
handling and disposal of infected materials. The inappropriate handling of
infected materials constitute a risk not only for the staff in health
facilities and in municipalities who are involved in waste handling, but
also for families and children who scavenge on dump sites. To address
this, the MOH Program of Work will include a bio-safety sub-program for
health care facilities, including the revision of relevant technical
guidelines and training of personnel. This sub-program will include
measures towards improving the appropriate separation, transport and
disposal of hazardous medical waste.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Francois Decaillet
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 32-2-772-3313
Fax: 32-2-770-2923
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 12 -



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 20, 2002.
- 13 -



