Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3731GH 
GRANT NUMBER  H0190GH
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Health Sector Program Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 16, 2003
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3731GH 
 
GRANT NUMBER H0190GH
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made; 
 
(C) 
the Association has received the following documents: (i) a Medium-
Term Health Strategy, dated September 1995; and (ii) the five-year Program of Work 
(POW), dated January 2002, from the Borrower, part of which describes a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to implement activities under the Borrower's 
Medium-Term Health Strategy for the Fiscal Years 2002 to 2006 (the two documents 
shall collectively be referred to as the Program) and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program;  
 
(D) 
the Borrower intends to obtain from various Development Partners  
(as hereinafter defined) grants and loans to assist in financing the Program;  
 
(E) 
the Borrower, the Association and the Co-operating Partners 
 
(as hereinafter defined) have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding providing for 
common procedures on procurement, disbursement, cooperation and exchange of 
information; and  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the financing to the Borrower upon the Credit and Grant terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through  
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement  
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
 
(a) 
"ADB" means the African Development Bank;  
 
(b) 
“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the acquisition of 
land, for purposes of construction of health facilities under the Program 
had or would have his or her:  (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any 
land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right in annual 
or perennial crops and trees or any other fixed or movable asset, acquired 
or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, 
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or 
permanently, and “Affected Persons” means, collectively, all persons 
who qualify as an Affected Person;  
 
(c) 
“ATF Rules” means the Accounting, Treasury and Financial Reporting 
Rules and Instructions of the MOH issued on October 1, 1997 that sets 
out the financial management arrangements, organization structure 
(including internal audit function), staffing, standard accounting forms, 
books, ledgers for the implementation of activities under the Program; 
 
(d) 
"BADEA" means Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa;  
 
(e) 
"BMC" means a Budget and Management Center, certified as having the 
capacities of carrying out financial management and procurement 
responsibilities under the Program at district, regional and national 
levels;  
 
(f) 
"CIDA" means the Canadian International Development Agency; 
 
(g) 
“Common Management Arrangements” means the common system and 
processes adopted at the Health Partners Summit on December 6, 2001; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
"Co-operating Partners" means, collectively, DANIDA, DFID, the 
Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the European Union 
and  the Association and other donors pooling at least a part of their 
funds into the Health Account (as hereinafter defined) and having signed 
the Memorandum of  Understanding; 
 
(i) 
"DANIDA" means the Danish International Development Assistance;  
 
(j) 
“Development Partners” means collectively, the ADB, BADEA, the  
Co-operating Partners, CIDA,  WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, GTZ, 
JICA, OPEC Fund and Saudi Fund for Development (as herein defined) 
and any other national or international agency contributing funds or 
technical assistance for the Program, and "Donor" means each and every 
donor individually; 
 
(k) 
"DFID" means the Department for International Development of the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland;  
 
(l) 
 “Environmental Management Plan” means the set of mitigation, 
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures dated                    to 
be taken during implementation of the Project to eliminate any adverse 
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to 
acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts; 
 
(m) 
"EU" means European Union; 
 
(n) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Financial Procedures Supplement” means the supplement to the ATF 
Rules concerning the content and frequency of the regular financial 
monitoring reports and reporting formats, as may be amended from time 
to time with the prior agreement of the Association, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Financial Procedures Supplement; 
 
(p) 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve-month period beginning 
January 1 and ending December 31 of each year;  
 
(q) 
"Ghanaian Cedi" and "C" mean the currency of the Borrower;  
 
(r) 
"GHS" means the Ghana Health Service, established pursuant to the 
Ghana Health Service and Teaching Hospitals Act, 1996, Act 525;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(s) 
"GTZ" means Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit;  
 
(t) 
“Health Account” the separate book of accounts maintained by the 
Borrower in the accounting records of MOH to record the financial 
resources contributed by Co-operating Partners to the Program; 
 
(u) 
"IGF" means Internally Generated Funds, funds which are generated by 
each BMC through cost-recovery measures, including donations and fees 
collected from patients;  
 
(v) 
"JICA" means the Japan International Cooperation Agency;  
 
(w) 
"MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;  
 
(x) 
"OPEC Fund" means the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries 
Fund for International Development;  
 
(y) 
"Process for the Definition and Review of Capital Projects" means the 
policy document adopted by the Borrower dated March 26, 1997, which 
describes the process for approving and carrying out capital investment 
projects in the health sector under the Program; as may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Association; 
 
(z) 
“Procurement Manual” means the manual setting out the national and 
sectoral rules and procedures for national competitive bidding, standard 
bidding documents, and a negative list that identifies items that are not 
eligible for financing (including expenditures for personal emoluments 
under Government Classification Item 1), as shall have been agreed with 
the Association for purposes of the implementation of activities under the 
Program, as same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to 
the Procurement Manual; 
 
(aa) 
 “Procurement Plan” means the annual procurement plan which includes 
all procurement to be carried out under the Program for the following 
year; 
 
(bb) 
“Report Based Disbursements” means withdrawal of funds from the 
Credit or Grant Accounts using the method referred to in paragraph 5(a) 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(cc) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement Policy 
Framework, dated September 2002 , which sets out a framework of 
Page  6
-
5
-
principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure compliance with said framework, as said framework may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Association; 
 
(dd) 
"Subprogram" means the annual program of activities included in the 
Program to be carried out in each Fiscal Year, as agreed upon between 
the Borrower, the Association and the Co-operating Partners;  
 
(ee) 
"UNFPA" means the United Nations Population Fund;  
 
(ff) 
"UNICEF" means the United Nations Children's Fund;  
 
(gg) 
"USAID" means the United States Agency for International 
Development; and 
 
(hh) 
"WHO" means the World Health Organization. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Financing 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to:  
 
(a) 
lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to 
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-three million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 43,500,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(b)  
make available to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,500,000) (the Grant). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for a Subprogram and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date.  
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association commitment charges 
on the principal amounts of the Credit and Grant not withdrawn from time to time at rates 
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but such rates not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charges shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the respective Credit or Grant Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date 
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rates set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charges shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.  
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.  
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, commencing May 15, 2013 and ending November 15, 2042. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2022 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above 
falling six months or more after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower 
Page  8
-
7
-
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.  
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above.  
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.  
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:  
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and  
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.  
 
Section 3.04. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, until completion of 
the Project, maintain a system, satisfactory to the Association and the Co-operating 
Partners, which shall provide for the flow of funds to the BMCs for the purposes of 
carrying out parts of the Project in their areas.  
 
Section 3.05. In carrying out capital investments under the Program, the 
Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that contracts for such investments 
are awarded in accordance with the Process for the Definition and Review of Capital 
Projects. 
 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause MOH to: 
 
(a)  
carry out the Environmental Management Plan, and prior to construction 
and rehabilitation of health facilities, establish environmental impact assessment 
procedures satisfactory to the Association for the design and procurement of such works; 
and 
 
(b)  
prior to construction of any health facilities under the Program which 
would displace any Affected Persons or adversely affect their standards of living, or their 
rights, usufructs or customary rights to land or other resources under the Project, ensure 
that:  
(i) 
all rights to land, rights, usufructs or customary rights and other 
property are allocated or acquired, compensation therefor is paid, 
and resettlement is carried out in accordance with the principles 
and institutional procedures established in the Resettlement 
Policy Framework; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that Affected Persons shall be compensated, resettled and 
rehabilitated in accordance with the Resettlement Policy 
Framework;  
 
(iii) 
prepare and furnish to the Association, for each health facility 
where there are Affected Persons, a detailed resettlement action 
plan acceptable to the Association; 
 
(iv) 
document the implementation arrangements for resettlement, 
including compensation, relocation and rehabilitation of 
Affected Persons; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(v) 
complete the implementation of such resettlement action plan in 
a
manner satisfactory to the Association. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MOH and the BMC’s to maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and to prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect the operations,  resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Program of the BMC’s, departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Program or any part thereof.
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall cause MOH and the BMC’s: 
 
(i) 
to have the records, accounts and financial statements 
(statements of income and expenses and related statements) for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
to furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of said financial statements reflecting the records 
and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
to furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures under the Health Account with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Credit or Grant Accounts were made on  the basis of Report Based 
Disbursements, the Borrower shall cause the MOH and the BMC’s to: 
 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit or Grant Accounts was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the reports referred to in paragraph 5 (a) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
cause MOH to prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: (i) sets forth sources and uses 
of funds for the Program, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing funds provided under the Health Account, and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of such funds; (ii) describes physical progress in Program 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Program implementation; and (iii) sets 
forth the status of procurement under the Program and expenditures under contracts 
financed out of the Health Account, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of the first 
calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence 
of the first expenditure under the Program through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.   
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Program shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefore; or 
 
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and 
 
(B) adequate funds for the Program are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02 
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in 
 
paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso 
of paragraph (b) (ii) of that section.  
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
PO Box M40 
 
Accra, Ghana 
 
Cable address:   
      
Telex:   
 
Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMICON 
 
2205 MIFAEPGH 
233 21 663854 
 
Accra 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Fascimile 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
/s/ Mr. Yaw Osafo-Maafo 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Mr. Mats Karlsson 
 
By  
Authorized Representative  
 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Financing to such 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in such 
Category: 
 
CATEGORY
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
Amount of the 
 Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) 
Subprograms 
        Nil 
18,000,000 
Such 
percentage 
of 
Eligible Expenditures 
as the Association may 
determine for each 
Fiscal Year 
 
(2) 
Unallocated 
43,500,000  
 
6,500,000  
 
________ ________  
 
Total 
43,500,000 24,500,000  
 
======== ========  
 
2. 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Program, maintain in US Dollars an 
account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and 
the Co-operating Partners, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Withdrawals from the Credit or Grant Accounts shall be deposited by the 
Association into such account for credit to the Health Account in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule
 
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means goods, 
works and services provided under a Subprogram for pharmaceutical drugs, medical 
supplies, medical equipment, civil works and operating costs for medical and support 
facilities, consulting and audit services, office supplies, vehicle and equipment operation, 
travel, per diem and supervision costs, and other expenditures under such Subprogram, 
but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil and public service
.
Page  16
-
15 -
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
6,000,000,  may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after March 31, 2002;  
 
(b) 
a Subprogram, unless: (i) such Subprogram has been approved by the 
Association in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such other information as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower; or  
 
(c) 
Payments made for expenditures for goods and services supplied under a 
contract which any national or international financing institution or agency, other than the 
Association, shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other credit or grant. 
 
5. 
(a) 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit or Grant 
Accounts to be made on the basis of the reports to be submitted to the Association in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association
,
such reports to include the FMR and 
other information as the Association shall specify by notice to the MOH.   
 
(b) 
The Borrower may also request payments to be made directly to a 
supplier or consultant for goods, works, or services included in a Subprogram, or to such 
sup
plier’s or consultant’s commercial bank, to guarantee the letter of credit issued by 
such commercial bank, using the Association’s Special Commitment procedures for the 
full amount of such requested payments.  The disbursement percentage for subsequent 
disbursements to finance a Subprogram during the remainder of the Fiscal Year will be 
reduced by a corresponding amount to offset direct disbursements and amounts disbursed 
under Special Commitment procedures.   
 
Page  17
-
16 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
Th
e
objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s Program to improve the 
health of the Borrower’s population while reducing geographic, socio-economic and 
gender inequalities in health and health outcomes. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
The carrying out of Subprograms for: 
 
1. 
Strengthening priority health interventions.
Implementing a package of priority 
health interventions, re-orientating secondary and tertiary services, empowering 
communities, improving the efficiency and effectiveness of health service provision, and 
institutionalizing quality in all health facilities.   
 
2. 
Developing  human resources for health services.
Restructuring the distribution 
and skill mix of personnel in the health sector, developing and implementing  continuous 
professional development programs, decentralizing health staff management, developing  
performance management systems, and promoting collaboration between public and 
private sector providers.  
 
3. 
Enhancing infrastructure and support services.
Reviewing and mapping physical 
assets, assessing the recurrent cost implications of planned and ongoing development 
projects, developing and implementing a hospital strategy, strengthening the capacity and 
institutional arrangements for capital  investment management, developing and 
implementing a new transport policy to decentralize transport management and 
maintenance.   
 
4. 
Fostering partnerships for health and promoting private sector participation in 
health service delivery.
Empowering individuals, households, communities and 
community based organizations, building effective partnerships with the Borrower’s 
other ministries,  departments and  agencies, strengthening the capacity to plan and 
manage inter-sectoral programs, and reorganizing resource flows in the health sector to 
support collaboration with other sectors, communities and civil society. 
 
5. Improving 
regulation
.
Increasing consumer protection and representation, 
empowering statutory bodies to make them more accountable, and modernizing legal 
systems in the health sector. 
 
Page  18
-
17 -
 
6. Reforming 
organizational 
arrangements
.
Completing the reorganization of the 
health sector with clear roles for MOH and the Ghana Health Service, agreeing upon and 
implementing new institutional arrangements including legal systems, service agreements 
and inter-sectoral collaboration, and strengthening management of MOH, GHS, teaching 
hospitals, and other institutions in the health sector at regional and district levels.  
 
7. Improving 
health 
sector 
financing
.
Increasing real per capita expenditure on 
health, enhancing and expanding pre-payment schemes, rationalizing the exemption 
policy, developing clear implementation guidelines, and revising the allocation formulae 
to include health needs, poverty and gender issues. 
 
8. 
Improving financial management systems
.
Strengthening planning and budgeting 
systems for decentralized resource utilization and management, and establishing 
mechanisms at BMC level to determine efficient use of resources. 
 
9. 
Further strengthening management information systems and performance 
monitoring.
Developing performance indicators and providing an evidence base for 
policy and practice, building capacity to monitor contractual arrangements, strengthening 
the capacity for operational research, and improving the use of information technology. 
 
10. 
Linkages with traditional and alternative medicine
.
Developing a national agenda 
for traditional and alternative medicine, designing and implementing quality assurance 
programs and initiating training programs for traditional and alternative medical 
practitioners. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006. 
Page  19
-
18 -
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
 
(a) Pre-qualification
Bidders for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or more 
shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.  
 
(b) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $400,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more each.  
 
(c) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic 
Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors.  
 
Page  20
-
19 -
 
(d) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
Goods and works may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vaccines, drugs and supplies may be procured from UNICEF or WHO, and 
contraceptives may be procured from UNFPA, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract  may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Page  21
-
20 -
 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for each Subprogram shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.  
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$400,000 or more, works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, limited 
international bidding, procurement from UN Agencies, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
Page  22
-
21 -
 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial auditors, procurement auditors, civil works consultants, and 
services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Select
ion Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  In exceptional cases, individual consultants may be selected on a sole-source 
basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 3 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
Page  23
-
22 -
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  24
-
23 -
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall implement the Program in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Memorandum of Understanding,  the Procurement Manual, the Common 
Management Arrangements, the ATF Rules, and the Financial Procedures Supplement, 
and, except as the Association and the Co-operating Partners shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of 
the Association and the Co-operating Partners, such amendment, abrogation or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Program.  
 
2. 
MOH shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Program, 
including, 
inter alia
,
overseeing the health sector policy reform, coordinating the 
Subprograms and coordinating the assistance from Co-operating Partners to the Program.  
 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than October 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation 
of the Project or such later date as the Association may agree, commencing on October 
31, 2003,  furnish to the Association for its approval each proposed Subprogram to be 
carried out in the following Fiscal Year, modified in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, taking into account its comments and views on the matter; 
 
(b) 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, each such Subprogram in 
accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding,  the Procurement Manual, the 
Common Management Arrangements, the ATF Rules, and the Financial Procedures 
Supplement; and 
 
(c) 
not make any material change to the approved Subprogram without 
consultation with the Co-operating Partners and the Association. 
 
4. 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Association shall not approve any proposal for a Subprogram furnished to it pursuant to 
subparagraph 3 (a) above unless and until: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower shall have prepared and furnished to the Association an 
operational plan for the Subprogram, setting forth, inter alia, the activities to be carried 
out, any policy reforms and other measures to be implemented, the expenditures to be 
incurred, the sources of financing of such expenditures and the procurement plan to be 
followed; and 
 
(b) 
the Association shall have been satisfied with the progress made to date 
in the carrying out of the current activities under the Subprogram to which the proposal 
relates on the basis of indicators referred to in paragraph 11 of this Schedule.  
Page  25
-
24 -
 
5. 
MOH shall be responsible for the preparation and implementation of health 
budgets for the consolidated activities under Subprograms and the monitoring of the 
performance of sector delivery of health services at the BMCs.  
 
6. 
District health management teams established in each district shall be responsible 
for organizing the local provision of health services at the community level in a manner 
consistent with the terms of reference set forth in the Plan of Work.  The teams shall 
prepare annual plans and budgets for their districts. 
 
7. 
The regional health teams shall be responsible for providing supervision and 
logistical support to the districts and organizing referral care.  
 
8. 
Health Account funds shall be used exclusively for the purposes of the Program.  
The Borrower shall disburse Health Account funds to BMCs that have been duly certified 
as specified in the ATF Rules and Financial Procedures Supplement pursuant to approved 
annual plans and budgets. Prior to disbursement of Health Account funds to a BMC, the 
financial controller of MOH, in consultation with staff of the Controller and Accountant 
General, will certify that the BMC concerned: (a) has taken the necessary measures to 
strengthen its internal financial management; and (b) is in compliance with the minimum 
criteria of eligibility for funding. 
 
9.
 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association and the Co-operating Partners: (i) quarterly 
financial statements indicating all revenues and expenditures for each level of BMC, 
according to the source of funds, the budget items and a selection of performance 
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; (ii) not later than 
January 1 of each year of implementation of the Program or such later date as the 
Association may agree, commencing on January 1,  2004, the annual MOH budget that is 
to be submitted to Parliament; (iii) not later than April 1 of each year of implementation 
of the Program or such later date as the Association may agree, commencing on April 1, 
2004, an annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program during the previous Fiscal Year and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date, and the report of actual 
expenditures against the budget for the previous Fiscal Year; and (iv) not later than 
October 31 of each year of implementation of the Program or such later date as the 
Page  26
-
25 -
 
Association may agree, commencing on October 31, 2003, the sector budget to be 
submitted by MOH to the Ministry of Finance for the following Fiscal Year. 
 
10. 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than the fifth year of the Program, carry out, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the Co-operating Partners, an 
evaluation of the impact of the Program on the delivery of health services, including an 
analysis on the benefits derived by vulnerable groups of the population from public 
expenditures on health; and (b) soon thereafter, furnish the report of said evaluation to the 
Association and Co-operating Partners.  
 
11. 
The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 2003, put in place arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Association, including the appointment of a procurement auditor in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for 
reviewing the procurement of goods, works and services financed under the Program, 
including the reviewing of procurement procedures and processes. 
Page  27
-
26 -
 
SCHEDULE 5
 
Modifications of General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions 
generally applicable to development financing granted by the 
Association as a development credit and development grant to its 
members.  They apply to any development financing agreement 
providing for any such development finance to the extent and subject to 
any modifications set forth in such agreement. 
 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
8.  “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions 
apply, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.  
Development Financing Agreement includes these General Conditions as 
applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
3. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
 
“15.  
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement.”; 
 
“16.  
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association 
on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited.”; 
 
“17.  
“Financing” means the Credit and the Grant, except that when 
used in Article III, Sections 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, Article VII and 
Section 12.05 of the General Conditions, Financing means Credit only.”; 
and 
 
“18. 
“Credit or Grant Accounts” means the Credit Account and the 
Grant Account, except that when used in Article III and Sections 4.03, 
4.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions, Credit or Grant Account  
means Credit Account only.” 
 
Page  28
-
27 -
 
4. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”:  Sections 
2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), 
Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and Article IX. 
 
5. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and 
Sections of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing 
Accounts”:  Section 2.01(6), 4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 
12.03. 
 
6. 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Development Financing Agreement; 
 
7. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“Section 3.01. 
Financing Account
:
The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and the amount of the Grant shall be 
credited to the Grant Account and such amounts may be withdrawn from 
the respective Credit or Grant Accounts by the Borrower as provided in 
the Development Financing Agreement and in these General 
Conditions.” 
 
8. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or 
development grant agreement)” is added to Section 6.02(a)(ii) after the 
words “any development credit agreement” and before the words 
“between the Borrower and the Association”, to Section 6.02(c)(i) after 
the words “any development credit agreement” and before the words 
“with the Association”, and to Section 7.01(b)(i) after the words “any 
other development credit agreement” and before the words “between the 
Borrower and the Association”:   
 
9. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the 
several installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after 
the date of such cancellation.” 
 
