                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR0000576




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-37310 IDA-H0190)




                                      ON A

                             DEVELOPMENT CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 43.5 MILLION
                         (US$ 57.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                          AND DEVELOPMENT GRANT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.5 MILLION (US$ 32.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                      FOR A

                HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT II




                                 December 21, 2007




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Ghana Country Management Unit
Africa Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 21, 2007)

                                  Currency Unit = Cedis
                                 Cedis 1 = US$0.0001079
                                 US$1.00 = Cedis 8375.0

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 ­ December 31


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADHA Additional Duty Hours Allowance       ICR          Implementation Completion Report
AIDS Acquired Immune Deficiency            IDA          International Development
     Syndrome                                           Association
ANC  Antenatal care                        IGF          Internally generated funds
BMC  Budget Management Center              M&E          Monitoring and evaluation
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy           MMR          Maternal mortality ratio
CHAG Christian Health Association of       MOFEP        Ministry of Finance and Economic
     Ghana                                              Planning
CHPS Community-based Health Planning       MOH          Ministry of Health
     Services                              NGO          Non-governmental organization
CSO  Civil society organization            NHIS         National Health Insurance Scheme
DAIA Deprived Area Incentive Allowance     ORT          Oral re-hydration therapy
DCA  Development Credit Agreement          PAD          Project Appraisal Document
DFA  Development Financing Agreement       PDO          Project Development Objective
DHS  Demographic and Health Survey         PNC          Prenatal care
DP   Development partner                   POW          Program of Work
GHS  Ghana Health Service                  PRSC         Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
GOG  Government of Ghana                   SWAp         Sector-wide approach
GPRS Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy      TB           Tuberculosis
HIV  Human Immunodeficiency Virus          TTL          Task Team Leader
IBRD International Bank for                U-5MR        Under-five mortality rate
     Reconstruction and Development




                               Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                             Country Director: Ishac Diwan
                              Sector Manager: Eva Jarawan
                         Project Team Leader: Laura L. Rose
                            ICR Team Leader: Laura L. Rose

                                                        GHANA
                   Health Sector Program Support Project II (HSPSP-II)




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 Executive Summary........................................................................................................ 1
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 8
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 13
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 20
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 37
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 38
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 42
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 43
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 44
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 55
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 56
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 57
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 58
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 59
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 69
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 70
 Annex 10. Sector-wide Indicator Comparison Table .................................................. 75
 Annex 11. Sector-wide Indicators 1998 ­ 2006 .......................................................... 80
 MAP

                                      Project Data

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Second Health Sector
Country:                Ghana                  Project Name:         Program Support
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P073649                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-37310,IDA-H0190
ICR Date:               12/21/2007             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                     GHANA
Original Total
                        XDR 68.0M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 68.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Health, Ghana
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/03/2001     Effectiveness:       05/22/2003        05/22/2003
Appraisal:             11/25/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/06/2003     Mid-term Review:     12/31/2005        03/31/2006
                                      Closing:             06/30/2007        06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:           Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing          Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                              1

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                        100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                 Secondary          Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                     Secondary          Secondary
Health system performance                                     Primary           Primary
Population and reproductive health                           Secondary          Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                             Secondary          Secondary
procurement


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:        Ishac Diwan                       Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:          Eva Jarawan                       Alexandre V. Abrantes
Project Team Leader:      Laura L. Rose                    Francois Decaillet
ICR Team Leader:          Laura L. Rose
ICR Primary Author:      David H. Peters
                          Jessica St. John




                                             2

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The overall objective of the 2002-2006 MOH Program of Work (POW-II) is to improve
the health status of the population while reducing the geographical, socioeconomic and
gender inequalities in health outcomes. This will be achieved by improving access,
quality, and efficiency of health services. Specific elements of the strategy include
enhancing the existing infrastructure and support services; reforming the organization and
financing of the health system and increasing overall financing for the sector;
strengthening management information systems, and in particular improving financial
managment and monitoring of performance of the system; developing human resources
for the sector; strengthening links with traditional and alternative medicine; and fostering
partnerships with other stakeholders.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Infant mortality rate (IMR)
Value
quantitative or 56.7/1000                 50/1000                             71/1000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  06/30/2007                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        As explained in the main text, this was not an appropriate indicator to have been

achievement)    chosen to measure progress towards the PDO

Indicator 2 :   Under 5 mortality rate (U5MR)
Value
quantitative or 108                       95                                  111
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  06/30/2007                          12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                3

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target     Formally     Actual Value

       Indicator       Baseline Value        Values (from                   Achieved at
                                               approval     Revised Target Completion or
                                              documents)         Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :       Supervised deliveries
Value
(quantitative       44%                    60%                            44.5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved       12/31/1998             12/31/2006                     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :       % of GOG recurrent budget spent on health
Value
(quantitative       11%                    15%                            18%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved       12/31/2003             12/31/2006                     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :       Outpatient visit per capita
Value
(quantitative       0.49                   0.6                            .52
or Qualitative)
Date achieved       06/30/2001             12/31/2006                     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                         IP             Disbursements
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2003        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     08/20/2003        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 8.35
  3     01/30/2004        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 8.35
  4     10/12/2004       Unsatisfactory               Satisfactory                31.61
  5     10/27/2004       Unsatisfactory               Satisfactory                46.89
  6     01/27/2005        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                49.95
  7     11/16/2005        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                94.32
  8     12/23/2005        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                98.28
  9     06/29/2006        Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory          100.21
  10    02/13/2007        Satisfactory                Satisfactory               100.26

  11    06/29/2007         Moderately
                         Unsatisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory          100.72



                                              4

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             5

Executive Summary

This Implementation Completion Report evaluates the Government of Ghana's 2002-2006 Health
Sector Program of Work (POW-II) and World Bank support to this sector wide approach (SWAp)
through the Second Health Sector Support Project (HSPSP-II). The POW-II outlined a vision to
improve the health status of all Ghanaians while reducing the geographical, socioeconomic and
gender inequalities in health outcomes, building on strategic pillars to improve access, quality,
efficiency, partnerships, and financing of the health sector.

Ghana's progress towards realizing the vision of the POW-II has been mixed, in contrast to the
high expectations. Health status was tracked by measurements of infant and under-five mortality
and childhood malnutrition. Overall reductions in infant and under-five mortality have stagnated,
though most malnutrition indicators have shown substantial improvements. Disparities in
mortality have been significantly reduced for the poor compared to less poor and for rural
compared to urban groups. The majority of malnutrition indicators also show improvements for
the poor and a reduction in relative inequality. Most of the lost ground in mortality occurs
because of recent increases in neonatal deaths (under 1 month of age), particularly for wealthy
and urban groups. Whereas this finding raises questions about the validity of the mortality data
used to track progress and the need for better measurement, it also calls for more focused
attention on maternal and neonatal health.

There were important gains in achieving the strategic objectives, notably related to improvements
in access to health services, equity of services, and the introduction of the National Health
Insurance Scheme (NHIS). Changes in overall access to health services and equity of access
during the POW-II have been largely positive, with most indicators of access showing an increase
or maintenance of high levels. There is less information concerning changes in the equity of
health service delivery, but the available data show that there have been reductions in Regional
disparities in access to some priority health services (e.g. immunizations, skilled birth attendance
and family planning), though for other indicators the results are less clear (e.g. outpatient and
hospital use). The data on changes in disparities of health services access for the poor also show a
largely positive picture. There were reductions in disparities for most health services that could be
measured (use of oral rehydration therapy (ORT) for diarrhea, DPT3 immunization coverage,
antenatal care coverage, and maternal tetanus toxoid vaccination coverage), but not for skilled
birth attendance and family planning use.

There were also considerable shortcomings in some areas of strategic importance, notably those
related to quality of services, efficiency, and partnerships. Despite the importance of quality of
health services delivery, there was a lack of focus on strategies for institutionalizing quality
improvement, and little attention paid to tracking changes in quality of services. Similarly,
efficiency in the health sector was not well monitored despite being a strategic pillar of the POW-
II. There were large increases in public expenditures on health worker salaries that may have
slowed down the exodus of health workers from Ghana, though studies of health workforce
productivity demonstrated declines in productivity, and data on hospital occupancy showed
substantial unused capacity. At the same time, the expansion of community services and delivery
of priority interventions were hampered by a lack of funding for recurrent expenditures, while
capital expenditures did not reflect stated priorities and were not well managed. In the area of
partnerships, there were gains made in working with donors and developing common
management arrangements, though there was limited progress in collaborations with the private
health sector and communities. The re-launching of the Ghana Health Service (GHS) in 2003 also




                                                   6

led to institutional conflict and duplication of efforts with the Ministry of Health, which diverted
attention and resources away from the task of implementing the POW-II.

The report also highlights some important lessons for future work. One lesson is that a stronger
analytic base is needed even when things appear to be going well, as was the case when the
POW-II was initiated. In-depth analysis and debate concerning equity of health services and
outcomes, efficiency of health services, and institutional analyses would have been particularly
helpful in anticipating problems and finding ways to assure implementation of the POW-II.
Donor behavior is also important, and the report notes that even shifts to general budget support
by some donors can contribute to disruptions in financing, increases in off-budget project funding,
and an overall increase in fragmentation of health sector support. There were design flaws that
were not well addressed during the POW-II, and the Bank's conceptualization of investment
lending helped to reinforce some of the design flaws. The dialogue between MOH and
development partners spent considerable time dealing with unmet expectations of inappropriately
defined project development objectives, even though the expected results could not have been
measured during the POW-II period, much less have been attributable to the POW-II. There was
also inordinate attention on results that were not under control of the health sector, using a
monitoring and evaluation system that was not sufficiently aligned with strategic priorities,
limiting the opportunity to move towards a performance-based health system. These factors can
seriously undermine achievement of sector objectives, and require attention to technical design,
institutional and political factors.




                                                   7

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Since embarking on economic reforms in the mid-1980s, Ghana has made considerable progress
in laying the foundation for sustainable growth and poverty reduction. This has resulted in
sustained per capita growth and increased private sector activity and investment. Social indicators
have also improved. In parallel with the economic reforms, the country completed the political
transition, moving to a democratic reform of Government. Overall, progress in social and
economic developments has been compromised by periodic interruptions of weak
macroeconomic management associated with the electoral cycle. With improved fiscal discipline
and a growing economy, improvements in the country's macroeconomic performance have been
anticipated.

Given this background, the Second Health Sector Program Support Project (HSPSP-II) fit clearly
within the context of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 2000, which was designed
to support the Government of Ghana's (GOG) strategy to reduce poverty. The need to provide
sector-wide support to the health sector was highlighted as a key part of that strategy. After
elections in 2000, a new Government took office in January 2001, adopted the HIPC initiative,
and formulated a new Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) which further reinforced the
approach. The GPRS aimed to eliminate hard-core poverty, with a specific strategy to redefine
the role of the state to provide public goods and services and ensure equitable distribution of
those benefits. In 2003, the GPRS highlighted improving human service delivery as one of its
five strategic pillars. Health-specific components included: (a) expanding access to health
services and enhancing quality; (b) improving the efficiency and equity of health services; and (c)
ensuring sustainable financing arrangements that protect the poor. In 2004, the Bank's strategy to
support the GPRS was articulated in the CAS as focusing on: (a) sustainable growth and jobs
creation; (b) service provision for human development; and (c) governance and empowerment.

The Government of Ghana and the World Bank have been working together in the health sector
since 1986. This includes a number of projects focused on improving health systems, including
service delivery, management, and financing. During the implementation of the Second Health
and Population Project, which was rated as having a positive impact, the GOG sought support
from the World Bank in developing and implementing one of the first sector-wide approaches
(SWAp) anywhere. This created a new way of doing business for the GOG and other
development partners, involving a common policy and strategic framework, a coherent financing
plan, and development of common implementation and review arrangements. The SWAp served
to strengthen the Government's sector stewardship by developing institutional, management, and
system capacity. In this way, by bolstering national capacity and leadership, the Government was
better equipped to address national priorities and improve health outcomes.

The Health Sector Program Support Project (HSPSP-I), which was also known as the Health
Sector Support Program, operated from 1997 to 2001, and was the first SWAp in Ghana. Building
on the perceived success Ghana was experiencing in improving overall national health indicators
(e.g., under-five mortality and infant mortality rates) as well as health service indicators (e.g.,
percentage of family planning acceptors), the HSPSP-I was designed to improve institutional
capacity and strengthen the sector to improve health outcomes, reduce inequalities, and improve
service delivery and quality. HSPSP-I's stated objective was to support the GOG's Program of


                                                  8

Work (POW-I) for 1997-2001, which aimed to improve service delivery, quality, and efficiency,
as well as foster intersectoral linkages to improve health outcomes, such as malnutrition, and
other outcomes such as girls' education achievement. The HSPSP-I was considered successful in
improving institutional capacity, particularly in improving procurement; budgeting, planning, and
financial management; and improving health financing.

The Second Health Sector Support Project (HSPSP-II) built on the HSPSP-I and supported the
Government of Ghana's (GOG) second five-year Program of Work (POW-II) for 2002-2006. The
Bank's decision to design another SWAp to support POW-II was reasonable, given the perceived
successes of the first SWAp in capacity building, donor collaboration, and improving the
predictability and availability of health financing through the pooled funds.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Project Development Objectives

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) describes the Project Development Objectives by
indicating that the HSPSP-II will support the Government of Ghana's efforts towards
implementing the Government's 2002-2006 Health Sector Program of Work (POW-II), described
in Partnerships for Health: Bridging the Inequalities Gap. The POW-II outlined a vision
statement and set of five strategic pillars (see Box 1), which was translated by the Bank in the
PAD as an "overall objective...to improve the health status of the population while reducing the
geographical, socioeconomic and gender inequalities in health outcomes." In addition, the POW-
II's "five strategic pillars" were also identified in Annex 1 of the PAD as project development
objectives. It would be inappropriate to consider a clearly defined vision statement alone as the
benchmark for achievement of the project development objectives, even though this appears to be
the case during implementation of the POW-II. In assessing the PDOs, this ICR attempts to be
consistent with the intentions of the PAD and the POW-II, which involves assessing progress
towards fulfillment of a vision, and the achievement of strategic pillars and their related
objectives.

Box 1. POW-II's Vision, Mission, Policy Goal, and Five Strategic Pillars
Vision
Improved overall health status and reduced inequities in health outcomes of people living in
Ghana
Mission statement
"The Ministry of Health will work in collaboration with all partners in the health sector to ensure
that every individual, household and community is adequately informed about health; and has
equitable access to high quality health and related interventions."
Policy goal
Working together for equity and good health for people living in Ghana
The five strategic pillars
    · To improve quality of health delivery
    · To increase access to health services
    · To improve the efficiency of health service delivery
    · To foster partnerships in improving health
    · To improve financing of the health sector




                                                    9

The PAD describes the five strategic pillars/objectives of the POW-II as the following:

        (i)    to increase (geographical, financial, and sociocultural) access to health services;
        (ii)   to improve quality of health delivery, improving health-worker-performance and
               responsiveness to client needs;
        (iii) to improve the efficiency of health service delivery, improving cost effectiveness
               and planning, management, and administration;
        (iv) to foster partnerships in improving health (with households and communities,
               between public and private providers, other ministries, departments, and agencies)
               with development partners; and
        (v)    to improve financing of the health sector through increased financing and
               increasing financial access of the poor to health care by extending prepayments
               schemes to replace "cash and carry" systems, while developing an appropriate
               policy and regulatory environment for health insurance, as well as increasing public
               expenditure on the poor and vulnerable.

Key Indicators

The PAD is inconsistent in its identification of the key indicators for HSPSP-II. For instance,
Annex 12 of the PAD makes reference to twenty-five sector-wide indicators that were identified
for monitoring implementation of the HSPSP-II and POW-II (Table 1.5.1). However, twenty-nine
sector-wide indicators are also listed in the same Annex, and additional project indicators and
recorded in Annex 1 of the PAD. Although there is a great deal of overlap among these
indicators, they are often worded differently and are thus inconsistently defined.

The MOH and its development partners (including the World Bank) often refer to the "agreed
upon twenty-five sector-wide indicators for POW-II." However, the number of the sector-wide
indicators varies depending the document one refers to. Annex 10 highlights the different sector-
wide indicators used in the PAD, the POW-II, the annual POW for 2006, and the Review of
POW-2005. There were often more than twenty-five indicators and some of these indicators
evolved over time. These indicators are largely based on the categories of the five strategic
objectives (access, quality, efficiency, partnership, and financing). Because data is more
comparable, this report uses the sector-wide indicators that were reported in the reviews of the
annual POWs as the key indicators by which the HSPSP-II and POW-II are assessed.




                                                 10

Table 1.5.1 Sector-wide indicators for POW-II (as identified in the PAD)

Health Status             · Infant mortality rate
                          · Under-five mortality rate
                          · Maternal mortality rate
                          · % under-five years who are malnourished
Access                    · Number of outreach services carried out by specialist from tertiary,
                               secondary and district hospital by region
                          · Population to doctor and nurse ratio by region
                          · Outpatient visit per capita
                          · Hospital admission rate
                          · Number of community resident nurse per district/region
Quality                   · % of maternal audits to maternal deaths
                          · Under-five malaria case fatality rate
                          · % tracer drug availability
Efficiency                · HIV seroprevalence (among reproductive age, 15-19, 20-24)
                          · Tuberculosis cure rate
                          · Number of guinea worm cases
                          · AFP non-polio rate
                          · % family planning acceptors
                          · % ANC coverage
                          · % PNC coverage
                          · % supervised deliveries (skilled attendants)
                          · Bed occupancy rate
                          · EPI coverage (DPT3, measles)
Partnership               · % recurrent budget from GOG and Health Fund used by private
                               sector, NGOs, CSOs, and other MDAs
Financing                 · % GOG budget spent on health
                          · % GOG recurrent budget for health
                          · % of earmarked/direct donor funds to total donor funds (per partner)
                          · % of IGFs coming from pre-payment and community insurance
                               scheme
                          · % recurrent and capital expenditure by level, by region, and by
                               source
                          · Total amount spent on exemptions by exemption category
Note: Sector-wide indicators are identified in Annex 12 of the Project Appraisal Document




1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The project development objectives and key indicators were not formally revised in Bank
documents, though as discussed in Sections 1.2 and 2.3, the descriptions and indicators of the
POW-II changed from year to year.




                                                    11

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

Based on the POW-II, the PAD identifies the main beneficiaries as:

        1. All Ghanaians, who will benefit from improved management, financing, and quality of
        health care delivery;
        2. The poor, particularly the rural poor and women, due the focus on priority health
        interventions, provision of basic health services, and reducing geographical,
        socioeconomic, and gender inequalities.
        3. Ministry of Health (MOH), Ghana Health Service (GHS), and Budget and
        Management Center (BMC) staff, and those health workers in the non-state sector, due to
        capacity building activities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The HSPSP-II was designed to support the POW-II, which did not define project components.
The definition of components was done by the Bank in order to fit its own design templates, but
was done in an inconsistent way. The ICR structure also requires an assessment of the outputs
from a set of components, even though this does not fit well with the design of the POW-II. The
PAD and the Development Financing Agreement (DFA) highlight ten areas of focus that are
consistent with the ten chapters of the POW-II that follow the POW-II definition of the strategic
vision. These areas are also treated as components in the logical framework of the PAD and in the
DFA. However, the PAD also identifies each year's overall Program of Work as a component
when describing the financing components of the program.

The description of focus areas changed substantially by the 2003 Program of Work, and
continued to be modified annually. However, they were not treated as components in the POW-II,
and they were never formally revised with the Bank. To be consistent with the Bank's evaluation
methodology and the spirit of the program, outcomes and outputs of the program are assessed
according to the five strategic pillars of the POW-II (described in Section 1.2), and the original
ten focus areas of the DFA and PAD logical framework. The ten focus areas that will serve as
"components" for this evaluation are:

        1. Strengthening priority health interventions;
        2. Developing human resources for health services;
        3. Enhancing infrastructure and support services;
        4. Fostering partnerships for health;
        5. Improving regulation;
        6. Reforming institutions arrangements;
        7. Improving the health sector financing;
        8. Improving financial management systems;
        9. Further strengthening management; and
        10. Linking with traditional medicine.




                                                 12

1.6 Revised Components

The POW-II was not organized around project components. The components were an artifact of
Bank documentation for the PAD of HSPSP-II (one set of components for describing the
financing components, another set for the description of the program). They were not formally
revised during implementation, even though the identified "components" changed considerably
during implementation of the POW-II.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The strategic objectives outlined in the POW-II set priorities that remained main themes
throughout implementation of the project between 2002 and 2006. However, the Ministry of
Health produced and implemented annual Programs of Work with its partners, which served as
the main strategy document for the health sector for each respective year. The annual POWs
generally maintained the strategic objectives outlined in the POW-II, but the articulation of the
focus areas changed from year to year. This was particularly true of the articulation of activities
and schemes planned to achieve objectives each year. The focus areas became the main thrust of
the annual POWs, with the strategic objectives providing a general overview of the sector's
direction. For instance, "human resources development" was treated as a part of "health sector
investments" within each POW until 2006, when POW 2006 made "human resources" its own
primary area of focus.

An indisputably crucial change to the implementation arrangements during HSPSP-II was the re-
launching of the Ghana Health Service in 2003. Under powerful and capable leadership, the GHS
came into direct conflict with the MOH over the authority to make policy and management
decisions related to service delivery. This conflict created gridlock at the central level and
diverted attention and resources away from the task at hand--implementing the POW-II. The
conflict also caused a great deal of confusion, including the failure to track capital expenditures
and follow through on implementation arrangements with non-governmental providers, such as
CHAG.

In terms of funding allocations, the following trends have affected health sector financing: (a)
establishment of the National Health Insurance Scheme in 2003 changed implementation
arrangements, as the National Health Insurance Fund became another fiduciary mechanism to
capture IGF and replace the exemptions policy; (b) the proportion of donors contributing to the
Health Fund have increasingly moving to earmarked and off-budget project financing; and (c)
some donors contributing to the Health Fund have moved to general budget support.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Soundness of background analysis

The Second Health Sector Support Project (HSPSP-II) for Ghana was designed as a health SWAp,
based on the perceived successes of HSPSP-I and the strong demonstrated leadership of the
Ministry of Health. Early evaluations of the first health SWAp (HSPSP-I) documented marked



                                                 13

improvements in government system capacity, both at the regional and district level, particularly
with regard to procurement and financial management systems. The first health SWAp achieved
decentralization of financial resources with the certification of budget management centers
(BMCs) and appeared to have a significant effect in improving health outcomes, particularly in
priority areas.

The Bank's decision to continue supporting the SWAp was based on the rationale of continuing
to support a Government-led process of improving the health sector. Engaging in the SWAp
allowed the Bank to continue its close collaboration with other core donors to build upon the
progress of using national systems and procedures and strengthening institutional capacity to
achieve health outcomes.

One of the important outcomes of the POW-I was the documentation and political recognition of
some important lessons for improvement. The overall objective of POW-II and its strategic pillars
were based on these lessons and were devised to overcome shortcomings, namely: (a) the
persistence of deep inequalities in health; (b) the chronic under-funding of the health sector; (c)
the intense brain drain and unequal distribution of staff; (d) the untapped potential contribution
from private providers; and (e) the potential devastating impact of HIV/AIDS on the heath sector,
the economy.

Notwithstanding these understandings of the limitations from the POW-I, the POW-II was largely
accepted as a continuation as "business as usual." In retrospect, this should have been questioned
more seriously. There was insufficient attention to the analytic basis for dealing with equity and
efficiency dimensions of the program, and particularly on the institutions needed for
implementation of strategies to address them. Although the potential for "turbulence" caused by
the split of the MOH and GHS was recognized as a substantial risk, there was a clear need for
institutional analyses and more pro-active risk reduction strategies that were not undertaken.

The Bank promised to support the SWAp and pay particular attention to the areas of:
    i)        Reducing inequalities in health--particularly to define and implement a more
              balanced capital development program with a clear focus on basic health services for
              the poorest and most deprived; and a new strategy to attract and retain health staff in
              the most deprived areas.
    ii)       Improving physical and financial accessibility of health care--define and
              implement a more adequate and equitable allocation formula for the allocation of
              public resources; and develop a definition and implementation plan for insurance and
              prepayment schemes for both the formal and informal sectors.
    iii)      Better exploit the public sector comparative advantage--define and implement
              contractual arrangements with both mission and private sectors for the provision of
              core health services.
    iv)       Enhance access to, quality, and efficiency in the delivery of priority health
              interventions with a major focus on HIV/AIDS--support the Government to focus
              on financing services that tackle the major public health priorities, particularly those
              that disproportionately affect the poor and the vulnerable.
    v)        Improve public service management--continue to help the MOH improve its
              procurement and financial management procedures; provide oversight on
              procurement and day-to-day implementation support; and contribute to the
              preparation of the annual procurement and financial audit reports.
    vi)       Performance monitoring--assess the quality of reporting on performance indicators.




                                                  14

However, the Bank did not undertake more rigorous or systematized analysis of these areas as
part of its background analysis, and appeared to rely on the information generated from the
routine SWAp review processes as its primary source of evaluation.

Assessment of project design

The HSPSP-II was designed to support the strategies of the POW-II to improve the population's
overall health status and reduce inequities in health access, quality, and efficiency. The rationale
for continuing with the overall SWAp at the beginning of the POW-II was sound, particularly to
support Government's strong ownership over the program, to continue the good relationships
between MOH and donors, and to follow-through on the stated vision and strategies of the
Government.

Adequacy of the Government's commitment

The Government of Ghana and, more specifically, the Ministry of Health's commitment to
implementing the POW-II was exemplary. The MOH was involved early on in international
discussions and conceptualizations of the first health sector SWAp. Thus, the MOH's
commitment was unswerving during the implementation of POW-I, even after a new political
party took office in 2001. The GOG exemplified good capacity and leadership in overseeing the
donor-pooled Health Fund and made substantial progress in achieving institutional strengthening
and capacity development. In addition, the GOG engaged all of its development partners in
establishing priorities for the POW-II and in devising its strategies. This inclusive process was
largely successful and a testament to the GOG's leadership capacity.

Assessment of risks

The sustainability of HSPSP-II was gauged by two parameters: (i) ownership; and (ii) availability
of financial resources (including donor funds). Taking into consideration the successes of the
HSPSP-I and the evident commitment of the GOG, international partners, and other stakeholders
(including civil society, the mission, and the private sector), risks to achieving ownership of the
SWAp were appropriately considered to be low. The availability of financial resources was
deemed to be a potential risk due to macroeconomic factors, the unpredictability of GOG
allocations to the health sector, and the potential volatility of donor funds. These risks were
assessed to be potential but low threats to sustainability since the financial viability of the GOG
looked promising and the GOG and donors' commitments to health seemed stalwart and steady.

However, as discussed above, there was insufficient attention to the institutional risks posed by
the split of the GHS and the MOH, and consequently to the way in which the strategies could be
implemented. As a result of the conflict between the two agencies, there ensued conflict over
control of resources, duplication of roles and responsibilities, a breakdown in the partnerships that
were to be developed, and a undermining of the performance management basis needed to
implement many of the strategies. Whereas not all of these outcomes could have been anticipated
when HSPSP-II was approved, a closer analysis of the incentives framework and institutions
involved would likely have helped.

At the time of appraisal, the risks involving human resources were considered in terms of brain
drain and staff attrition. It would have been difficult to anticipate all risks in the labor market that
followed, but more attention to the institutional analysis might have pointed to the risks involving
labor strife and the financing of the wage bill, both of which became major problems for the
health sector during the POW-II.


                                                  15

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Implementation of the HSPSP-II in terms of the Bank's supervision of implementation went
largely according to plan, with satisfactory oversight and engagement. There were no project
changes, restructuring, or project at risk status changes. During the early years of HSPSP-II
implementation, the Bank responded to early calls for a greater field presence and by moving the
task team leader (TTL) of the project from headquarters in Washington, DC to the Ghana Country
Office.

Disbursement of project funds differed greatly from the disbursement plan determined at the time
of appraisal (see Section A, Annex 1). Funds did not disburse until 2004 and then almost all of
the remaining funds were spent in 2005 due to an unforeseen budget shortfall in the MOH.
Because Bank financing was part of the Health Fund, this pattern of funding is unlikely to have
dramatically affected financing the health sector, yet this was a less predictable, more volatile
type of aid.

Implementation of the HSPSP-II in terms of supporting implementation of POW-II encountered a
number of unforeseen challenges. An evolving political climate and Parliamentary Acts to
address health sector challenges created a number of moving pieces that significantly challenged
the MOH's ability to carve out a real strategic plan for POW-II implementation. The years of
POW-II implementation (2002-2006) were marked by institutional conflict in defining the roles
and responsibilities between the MOH and Ghana Health Service (GHS). In addition, a
reorganization of the public health sector in 2003 by the MOH and the passing of the wage bill in
2004 changed the landscape of the health sector, creating significant financial burdens on the
MOH to cover the Additional Duty Hour Allowance (ADHA) and Deprived Area Incentive
Allowance (DAIA) for health workers. Dialogue with development partners also experienced a
shift during implementation. In the early years of POW-II, collaboration between development
partners (DPs) and the MOH was both respectful and productive with a focus on mutual
achievement; later in implementation, some DPs became more adversarial, adopting a
"watchdog" attitude to expose Government inefficiencies and shortcomings. Previously, during
POW-I and the early part of POW-II, such matters would have been viewed as joint challenges to
be faced and addressed by DPs and Government together. This shift in development dialogue was
observable, and implementation of the HSPSP-II was consequently affected by this change.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design

Progress towards meeting the objectives of POW-I was monitored by twenty sector-wide
indicators that were agreed upon by stakeholders and the MOH. The list served as the basis for
annual performance reviews. At the conclusion of the POW-I, an assessment carried out in 2001
deemed many of the indicators not sufficiently focused on measuring outputs or outcomes.

In the M&E design for POW-II, a new set of sector-wide indicators were identified to track
progress in achieving the strategic objectives. However, the number of the sector-wide indicators
varies between sector documents, highlighting inconsistencies in identifying the sector-wide
indicators for POW-II. Annex 10 documents how the sector-wide indicators changed over time,
outlining the indicators that were originally designed in the PAD and POW-II as well as those
that were actually used for reporting for progress made in achieving the 2006 POW. Although the


                                                  16

sector-wide indicators changed over time, about twenty-five to thirty sector-wide indicators were
repeatedly monitored and evaluated between 2002 and 2006. Data for these indicators are
presented in Annex 11.

The sector-wide indicators were based on the strategic objectives of the POW-II: (a) health
outcomes (e.g., infant mortality and maternal mortality rates); (b) access to health services (e.g.,
immunization coverage, outpatient visits per capita); (c) quality of health services (e.g., under-
five malaria case fatality rate, tracer drug availability); (d) efficiency (e.g., antenatal coverage,
number of guinea worm cases); (e) partnership (e.g., % of recurrent budget from GOG and Health
Fund used by private sector, etc.); and (f) financing (e.g., the proportion of GOG budget spent on
health).

Although the sector-wide indicators reflected the objectives of POW-II, the design of the results
framework did not sufficiently enable accurate and timely monitoring of valid and reliable
measures of the sector's performance. For instance, population-based mortality indicators based
on relatively small surveys are not suitable to be used to monitor progress on an annual basis (e.g.,
under-five mortality is measured every five years and gives an estimate over the previous five or
ten years), as these indicators are rather insensitive to changes in performance of health services,
often depend on other determinants of health, and are less affected by changes in performance
alone.

Most notably, the sector-wide indicators insufficiently measure equity, especially geographic
differences in health services and health outcomes. Regional differentials for health service
indicators are relatively easy to monitor and evaluate, yet these were not captured in the M&E
design. Furthermore, financial protection, a key indicator of equity, was not included as an
indicator in the M&E framework.

The sector-wide indicators did not adequately identify the links between building capacity and
improving service delivery. For example, tracking vacancy rates for human resources would have
been one way to measure improving capacity that has a direct impact on service delivery. More
attention and effort should have been spent ensuring that appropriate measures of equity and
intermediate outcomes were in place to inform the policy dialogue.

Implementation

The MOH and Ghana Health Service were responsible for collecting, aggregating, and reporting
on the sector-wide indicators. There are still variations in data quality and management, as with
implementation of POW-I, despite significant investment and improvements in information
systems.

As mentioned earlier, reporting on the sector-wide indicators has been inconsistent, with
definitions of some indicators changing over time. Such inconsistencies compromise the
opportunity to identify trends over time and create confusion among stakeholders over which
indicators are valid measures of objectives. Indicators for health financing are often subject to
change, oftentimes with the definition of the denominator differing over the years and subject to
interpretation.

Utilization

Despite delays in data collection and reporting, the MOH and GHS have developed systems to
collect detailed health service use and outcome data at both regional and district levels. However,


                                                  17

regional and district-level data, originally envisioned to inform regional priorities and serve as
equity indicators, were hardly ever used in annual reports. All too often external reviews were
required to collect, aggregate, and present health data, while this could have been done by the
MOH's agencies.

Despite the lack of effective use at the national level of regional and district-level data, there is
evidence that some regions have made progress in this area. For instance, a few regions have
developed league tables to create a performance-based system of evaluating district performance
and improvement. Resources, thereby, may be allocated to reward performance and/or to address
an identified need of a poorly-performing district. Such use of data monitoring should be
encouraged and brought to national scale.

However, on the national level, there was little evidence that data monitoring was used to
improve resource allocation. Furthermore, relevant operational research that was undertaken on
some of the new policies and programs were not used to inform their implementation. For
example, an independent review of the information management system led to a relevant
evaluation paper but there is little indication to demonstrate this paper's recommendations were
used to reform the information system. These missed opportunities should be of high concern to
the MOH/GHS, especially with the development of new annual POWs and the possibility of
using data to inform regional health priorities and resource allocations.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

There were two safeguards policies triggered by this project: (i) environmental; and (ii)
involuntary resettlement. The environmental assessment considered the impact of the project in
terms of health waste management and impregnation of bednets with insecticides. The Ghana
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) developed and disseminated guidelines on proper
procedures for handling health care waste and the MOH agreed to use environmentally-friendly
insecticides in bednets. The risk of involuntary resettlement was mitigated by issuing the
Environmental and Resettlement/Compensation Framework to stakeholders within the MOH,
GHS, academic institutions, NGOs working in environment, as well as to development partners.
The project was in compliance with these safeguard measures throughout implementation of
HSPSP-II.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The Bank provided an adequate transitional arrangement when support to the health SWAp
(through the HSPSP-II) ended on June 30, 2007. The last year and a half of the Bank's support to
the SWAp was largely transitional, as the Bank had already moved to general budget support in
2006 after almost all of the remaining HSPSP-II funds were spent in 2005 due to an unforeseen
budget shortfall in the MOH. The Bank remained involved in technical discussions and reviews
during this last year, in addition to maintaining its role of reviewing procurement contracts.

During this transitional year, it became obvious that the MOH faced a number of new challenges
due to changes in the sources of revenue for health and new institutional arrangements, namely:
(i) the National Health Insurance Scheme, established in 2003, has in principle replaced the "cash



                                                   18

and carry system" and the internally generated funds (IGF); (ii) some donors have shifted
financial support from the Health Fund to budget support; and (iii) there has been a reduction in
the proportion of contributions to the Health Funds, particularly in relation to earmarked funds.
The MOH still needs to learn how to deal with MoFEP budgeting and disbursement procedures
that are more cumbersome, and less flexible and accessible to BMCs than the Health Fund. The
Government and development partners need to be concerned that the capacity gained in
developing BMCs to utilize and report on financing is not lost. Furthermore, as general budget
support increases, the role of BMCs needs to be carefully considered. If BMCs will continue as
the district level financing modality, the sustainability of this system and its adequacy in
advancing performance-based incentives should be considered.

The Bank's new IDA-financed Health Insurance Project, approved on July 3, 2007, will serve as
an important link to strengthening institutional capacity in order to carry out the NHIS, including
its coverage of exempt categories. This project builds on the institutional capacity that was
established during HSPSP-I and HSPSP-II and will hopefully provide another opportunity for the
Government to implement performance-based management and financing systems, while
improving equitable access to quality health services. The logic of a project-support to initiate a
new institution (the NHIS) is well reasoned.

The Bank is also supporting a new Nutrition and Malaria Control for Survival Project (US$25
million in IDA financing), approved on July 3, 2007. Although clearly addressing priority needs,
the rationale for project-based support in these areas is more complicated. With the recognition of
stagnating infant and under-five mortality rate, an unexpected increase in available IDA funds
and the possibility of leveraging more funds from other donors, the Bank was opportunistic in
creating a project focused on improving health outcomes through improved nutrition and malaria
prevention and treatment. The new project is quite innovative in using existing financing
modalities (i.e., no earmarked funding, but using the Health Fund) to create a results-based
financing model. Although the Bank has gone to great lengths to design a relevant project that is
harmonized with the international aid agenda, it is uncertain whether this financing will be a
better alternative to the sector-wide approach or if it is a regression towards specific, project-
based funding.

In addition to these two new projects, the Bank has planned on continued involvement in the
health sector dialogue through its support of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC),
which states strengthening health systems as an objective. The Bank plans to focus its support of
the PRSC in the areas of health financing, human resources for health, and budget planning and
management, which are consistent with Bank's areas of expertise. In this way, the Bank has tried
to maintain its sector-wide dialogue in health despite the shift to project lending.

The Bank has also actively participated in the discussions concerning the development of the next
five year program of work (POW-III). The POW-III has proposed another set of sector-wide
indicators for monitoring and evaluation that are improved, but still not optimally aligned with
the POW's strategic objectives. There are now three indicators of equity to be measured at the
national level, though none assesses equity at a regional, district, or BMC level, and one will be
measured only once during the POW-III. The set of indicators chosen are thus unlikely to
improve the ability to identify variations in equity (or other areas of performance) across
management units. This is a lost opportunity for efforts to improve accountability of health
services at operational levels, as well as to promote a system that would like to align financing
with performance (either to reward high performers, or to provide extra help for low-performing
areas).



                                                  19

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The PAD describes the Project Development Objectives (PDOs) in terms of "supporting the
Ministry of Health in implementing its 2002-2006 Program of Work (POW-II)," and also
translated what is clearly defined in the POW-II as a vision statement into the main PDO of a
project, namely to: "improve the health status of the population while reducing the geographical,
socioeconomic, and gender inequalities in health outcomes."

This vision and the five strategic objectives defined above remain highly relevant to country and
global priorities in health and development, and also fit in well with the Bank's assistance
strategy, as articulated in the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy, the global Millennium
Development Goals, and the Ghana Country Assistance Strategy.

However, the vision statement is a mis-specification as a PDO, and likely contributed to the way
sectoral dialogue between the MOH and development partners evolved, with the vision statement
being treated more as a project objective rather than a vision statement. From a management
sciences perspective, a vision statement is an aspirational proclamation about where the
organization (in this case referring to the health sector) would like to be in the future. A vision
statement is not defined in a way that an objective is monitored (e.g. with specific, measurable,
achievable, relevant, and timely attributes), though it is important that strategies and objectives
are consistent with the vision (and mission).

The monitoring and evaluation systems of the POW-II were designed to assess the health status
of the population over large time periods, but not in a way that can link changes in the inputs,
activities, and outputs of the POW-II to achievement of the vision as an objective, as might be
planned in a traditional project. The data for the sector-wide indicators are also unable to detect
anything but the largest changes in population averages of selected health outcomes. The sector-
wide monitoring system was designed to assess overall health outcomes of the population, but not
the inequities, much less to detect reductions (changes) in inequities. No country has yet been be
able to demonstrate how sectoral inputs and activities are causally linked to changes in health
status on a national scale, as would be the standard of evidence if the vision statement were
treated as a project objective. For these reasons, it is inappropriate to only consider the defined
vision statement as the benchmark for achievement of the PDO.

The POW-II strategic objectives are more appropriate as PDOs. The PAD also combines the
strategic objectives at the level of a PDO in its logical framework, though it does not treat them as
such in the ISRs. For purposes of evaluation, this ICR will assess the degree to which progress is
being made towards fulfilling its vision, but will not treat the vision as if it were the sole PDO. In
keeping with the intent of the POW-II and the PAD, this ICR will also assess the degree to which
the identified strategies and related objectives of the POW-II have been accomplished.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

In considering the achievement of the PDOs, the evaluation will consider both the stated vision of
the POW-II, to "improve the health status of the population while reducing the geographical,



                                                  20

socioeconomic, and gender inequalities in health outcomes," and the POW-II's five strategic
pillars, both of which are identified as PDOs in the PAD logical framework.

Progress Towards Realizing the Vision
The assessments of health status used in the formal review of the POW-II (Table 3.2.1) provide
some indication of the concern over the overall lack of improvements in mortality and HIV
seroprevalence. It also highlights the lack of information needed to assess changes in these
parameters as development objectives. There is insufficient data to assess changes in maternal
mortality, and interpretation of HIV seroprevalence is fraught with difficulties. This is because
HIV seroprevalence can increase if those living with HIV are living longer due to treatment, or if
people with HIV infection become more likely to be tested, both of which would be the results of
successful programs (rates can also decrease if people die sooner). Prevalence can also increase
if more people are becoming infected, which is not a sign of success. This evaluation therefore
focuses on further assessing what can be learned from data on changes in infant and under-five
mortality and childhood malnutrition. To be consistent with an assessment of the statement of
vision, we examine the longer trends over time, and assess changes in inequities.


Table 3.2.1. Sector-wide indicators of health status
                                                        2002       2003        2004       2005       2006   Target

 Infant Mortality Rate per 1,000 live births                        64                                71     50

 Under Five Mortality Rate per 1,000 live births                    111                              111     95

 Maternal Mortality Ratio per 100,000 live births                                         560                150

 Children Under Five who are Malnourished (%)                       22.1                             17.8    20
 HIV seroprevalence (%)                                  3.4        3.6        3.1         2.7        2.9    2.6
Source: Health Sector Programme of Work (2002-2006) Independent Review of POW ­ 2006 (2007).
Note: 2006 data for infant and under-five mortality actually refer to the average mortality experience over
the previous 10 years; 2004 represents estimates of the previous five years. Malnourishment is defined as
weight for age. The reference population is the WHO/CDC/NCHS reference, capturing the percentage of
children scoring more than 2 standard deviations below the mean.


The best estimates of the multi-agency working group on estimating global mortality rates
provides a picture of mortality trends in Ghana that uses as wide a set of information as possible.
Their data suggest that nationwide, overall infant and under-five mortality rates have leveled off
since the late 1990s (Figure 3.2.1).

Since these estimates of mortality rely on point estimates and not their error (variance), it has
limitations when used to assess whether there are significant changes over time. When
incorporating the level of variance in the estimates from the most recent (2003) DHS data, it is
clear that only very large differences can be detected from one year to the next, such as would be
found with reductions of 30 percent or more in one year (Figure 3.2.2.). The results also do not
show statistically significant changes from one five year period to the next since the 1989-1993
period (Figure 3.2.3).




                                                     21

Figure 3.2.1 Best Estimates of Infant and Under-Five Mortality Rates in Ghana

                                                                                                                    GHANA- INFANT MORTALITY

                                                                                              140



                                                          )shtrib                             120




                                                                 00                           100

                                                                   10
                                                                     erp(                     80
                                                                         etar
                                                                             yti              60

                                                                                altro         40
                                                                                     mtnafnI  20




                                                                                                0
                                                                                                1960    1965    1970   1975    1980    1985    1990   1995   2000   2005
                                                                                                                                    Year

                                                                                                   Cen71            GFS79i           DHS88d           DHS88i
                                                                                                   GFS79d           DHS93d           DHS93i           DHS98i
                                                                                                   DHS98d           WDI              DHS03d           DHS03i


Sources: Cen71 = Census 1971; GFS = Ghana Fertility Survey; DHS = Demographic & Health Survey; WDI = World
Development Indicators. Numbers represent year of survey. "d" represents direct method of estimation; "i" represents
indirect method of estimation.

                                                                                                               GHANA- UNDER-FIVE MORTALITY
                                                                                            250


                    )shtrib                                                                 200



                           1000
                               erp(                                                         150
                                   etar
                                       yti
                                          altro                                             100

                                               m
                                                veif-rednU                                   50




                                                                                              0
                                                                                              1960    1965    1970   1975    1980    1985    1990   1995   2000   2005
                                                                                                                                  Year
                                                                                             Cen71          GFS79i       DHS88d         DHS88i      GFS79d        DHS93d
                                                                                             DHS93i         DHS98i       DHS98d         WDI         DHS03d        DHS03i



Sources: Cen71 = Census 1971; GFS = Ghana Fertility Survey; DHS = Demographic & Health Survey; WDI = World
Development Indicators. Numbers represent year of survey. "d" represents direct method of estimation; "i" represents
indirect method of estimation.



                                                                                                                               22

Figure 3.2.2. Annual Trends in Ghana's Infant Mortality with Confidence Intervals

                                                  180


                                                  160


                                                  140


  s
   rth                                            120
      bi
        veil                                      100

            000
               1,
                                                   80
                 per


                                                   60
                    Deaths


                                                   40


                                                   20


                                                    0
                                                       1994   1995   1996  1997    1998    1999   2000   2001  2002     2003

                                                                                       Year



Source: Ghana DHS (2003); Hatt & Peters estimates using bootstrapped confidence intervals
Note: Linear trend-line shown as dotted line.

Figure 3.2.3 Trends in Childhood Mortality in Ghana (1984-2003)




                                                   180
                                                                                                                Underfive deaths

                                                   160                                                          Infant deaths

                                                                                                                Neonatal deaths
                                                   140
                          rthsib                   120
                                veil
                                                   100
                                    000
                                       1,rep        80


                                                    60

                                            eathsD  40


                                                    20


                                                     0
                                                            1984-1988          1989-1993           1994-1998           1999-2003

                                                                                           Period

Source: DHS 1988, 1993, 1998, 2003; Hatt & Peters estimates.



                                                                                          23

A breakdown of infant mortality rates into its neonatal and post-natal components provides some
useful observations that may explain some of these trends. Neonatal mortality appeared to
increase during the last survey period, and is the driving force behind the infant and under-five
mortality estimates. As shown in Figure 3.2.4, estimates of post-neonatal mortality (age 1-11
months) and child mortality (age 12-59 months) do not show an upward trend during the last
survey period. There are well-known errors and biases in estimating neonatal deaths (especially
under-counting and misclassification as still births). As discussed below, the increases in neonatal
deaths also occurs largely among the wealthier and urban populations, suggesting a possible
reporting bias that over-estimates neonatal deaths in the latter survey relative to earlier periods.
Caution should be exercised when attributing causes to the trends in infant and under-five
mortality.

Figure 3.2.4

                                               Trends in neonatal, postneonatal, and child mortality
                                                               with 95% confidence intervals
                                                          Ghana DHS (1988, 1993, 1998, and 2003)


                           100


                            90


                            80


                            70

   births
         veil               60


                            50
             1,000r
                   pe       40


                     Deaths 30


                            20


                            10


                            0
                                  1983-1988                   1988-1993                     1993-1998                    1998-2003

                                                                              Period

                                             Deaths ages 12-59 months      Deaths ages 1-11 months     Deaths in first month




Are health outcomes becoming more equitable?

We build on these analyses to assess whether there has been progress towards the long-term
vision of improving equity, by defining socioeconomic differences though a standard asset index
(Filmer & Pritchett 2001), and assessing trends over time. As shown in Figure 3.2.6, a steady,
almost linear decline is observed for the poorest 40% of the sample, while under five-mortality
rates among the middle 40% first decline and then level off. For the richest 20%, declines from
1983 through 1998 are erased by a statistically significant increase in the 1998-2003 survey
period. Estimates of under-five mortality rates for all wealth groups converged in this most
recent period. The situation is similar for infant mortality (figure not shown); where the poorest
40% appear to have the most consistent decline in infant mortality rates over the 20-year period.
The rate of decline appeared to flatten out between the last two surveys. The middle 40% show a


                                                                            24

very slight decline overall, while the pattern for the wealthiest 20% is erratic, declining
precipitously in the 1998 survey period and then rising dramatically in the 2003 survey period.


Figure 3.2.5

                                                                  Trends in underfive mortality, by wealth group
                                                                5-year estimates with bootstrapped 95% confidence intervals
                                                                           Ghana DHS (1988, 1993, 1998, and 2003)


                                         250




                                         200
    hst
       bir

          live
              00
                1,0                      150

                   per                                                                                                                 Poorest 40%
                      s                                                                                                                Middle 40%

                       year                                                                                                            Richest 20%
                           5ts           100
                              fir
                                 in
                                   s


                                    Death 50




                                          0
                                                1983-1988            1988-1993                  1993-1998                 1998-2003

                                                                                    Period


Supplementing these analysis with Weibull regression analysis for under-five mortality (Table
3.2.5), there was an average of 13% decline per survey period for the poorest 40% of the sample
(p<0.01), whereas the trends for the middle and richest groups were not statistically significant.
The results were similar when examining infant mortality. Incorporating socio-economic
determinants into these models showed that whereas improvements were greater in rural
compared to urban areas, there were otherwise no strong geographic, cultural, or gender
differences in the rates of change in infant or under-five mortality (further details are to be
provided in the forthcoming Country Status Report).

Table 3.2.5

Weibull regression analysis: Trends in underfive mortality, by poverty group
Pooled Ghana DHS surveys (1988, 1993, 1998, 2003)

                                                     Average trend per survey
Wealth group                                             Hazard ratio            SE
Poorest 40%                                                    0.87           0.04 **
Middle 40%                                                      0.92          0.04
Richest 20%                                                    0.99           0.10
*p<0.05                                              **p<0.01




                                                                                       25

Weibull regression analysis: Trends in infant mortality, by poverty group
Pooled Ghana DHS surveys (1988, 1993, 1998, 2003)

                                                  Average trend per survey
Wealth group                                           Hazard ratio        SE
Poorest 40%                                                   0.90       0.04 *
Middle 40%                                                    0.97       0.05
Richest 20%                                                  1.06        0.12
p<0.05

Source: DHS data, Hatt & Peters calculations

Since neonatal mortality strongly influences the estimates of infant and under-five mortality, it is
worthwhile to examine how it is distributed across different wealth groups. Although there are
insufficient sample sizes to detect statistically significant trends, it is clear from Figure 3.2.6 that
most of recent increase in neonatal mortality estimates is occurring in the richest quintile (also
urban areas ­ data not shown). Although it is possible that wealthier families would have higher
mortality rates, this would be highly unusual, and suggests that a reporting bias may be
contributing to the apparent increases in infant mortality (as wealthier families are more likely to
deliver in hospitals and report neonatal deaths). Nonetheless, the overall neonatal mortality rates
are sufficiently high to demand more attention in terms of improving maternity and neonatal
health services.


Figure 3.2.6 Trends in neonatal mortality in Ghana according to wealth group



                                          80


      hst                                 70
         bir                                                                                 Poorest 40%
            veli                          60                                                 Middle 40%
                0                                                                            Richest 20%

                 1,00                     50

                     per
                                          40


                        monthtsrfi        30



                                  in      20

                                    hs
                                      at  10
                                        De

                                           0
                                                1984-1988          1989-1993        1994-1998           1999-2003

                                                                             Period


Note: DHS 1988, 1993, 1998, 2003; Hatt & Peters calculations
Bars indicate 95% confidence intervals.




                                                                              26

Childhood Malnutrition

For childhood malnutrition, the trends are very different for the different measures of malnutrition
(Figure 3.2.7). Stunting (low height-for-age) declined from 1988 to 1998, but increased in the
2003 survey (p<0.05). Wasting (low weight-for-height), showed an opposite pattern, with
substantial improvements between 1998 and 2003 (p<0.01), whereas underweight (low weight-
for-age) showed a more consistent linear improvement. All three measures were strongly
associated with poverty. Time trends in the prevalence of wasting showed that the large poverty
differentials of the early survey rounds were gone by 2003, as the bottom 80% of the population
enjoyed significant improvements from 1998 to 2003. The reductions were much larger than
those made among the wealthiest quintile, and relative inequalities were eliminated. Trends in
the prevalence of underweight showed significant reductions in all poverty groups (p< 0.05), but
with slightly larger declines in the richer quintiles (so that relative inequality increased). However,
time trends show that there is no change in rates of stunting across poverty groups.


Figure 3.2.7

                                       Trends in prevalence of malnutrition among children under 3,
                                                      with 95% confidence intervals
                                                               Ghana DHS


                          35%




                          30%




                          25%
   3


    under
                          20%
                                                                                                       Underweight
         dren
                                                                                                       Stunted
             chil                                                                                      Wasted
                 of       15%

                   centreP
                          10%




                           5%




                           0%
                                 1988              1993                   1998                2003

                                                             Survey



Conclusions on Progress Towards Realizing the Vision

An overall assessment of Ghana's progress towards realizing its vision would give it a barely
passing grade. Overall improvements in infant and under-five mortality have slowed down,
though most malnutrition indicators showed substantial improvements. Yet inequities in mortality
for the poor and rural groups have been significantly reduced. The majority of malnutrition
indicators show improvements for the poor and a reduction in relative inequality. Most of the lost
ground in mortality is attributable to recent setbacks in neonatal survival, particularly for wealthy
and urban groups, and while raising questions about the validity of the mortality data and the



                                                                   27

need for better measurement of results, it also prompts a need for more focused attention to
maternal and neonatal health.


Achievement of Strategic Objectives

Strategy 1: Increase Access to Services

There are many definitions of access to health services, with most evaluators recognizing that
access is related to the timely use of services according to need (Campbell et al 2000; Peters et al
2007). In the POW-II, it is clear that access to health services includes utilization of services and
service coverage, and considers geographic, financial and sociocultural dimensions. An
assessment of the sector wide indicators of health service coverage (Table 3.2.6) shows that there
has been little change in most of the general indicators, and the (arbitrary) targets have not been
met. The results for the delivery of priority health services, however, showed substantial gains
and/or achievement of appropriate targets in most areas that were measured (see Annex 2 for
further details). There are also improvements in structural access to care, as demonstrated by
increased physician and nursing ratios, increased availability of drugs, and increases in functional
Community-based Health Planning and Services (CHPS) zones (though not reaching the
proposed target).


Table 3.2.6 Sector wide indicators of health service coverage

                               2001       2002       2003       2004       2005       2006      Target
 General Service Coverage Indicators
 Outpatient visits per         0.49       0.49        0.5        0.52      0.53        0.52       0.6
 capita
 Hospital admission rates      34.9       35.3        36         34.5      36.5        32.6        40
 per 1,000 population
 No. of specialized             141       158         175        158       164         170        200
 outreach services carried
 out
 Priority Service Coverage Indicators
 Penta 3/ DPT3 coverage        76.3       78.0       76.0        75.0      85.0        84.2        80
 (%)
 Measles coverage (%)          82.4       83.7       79.0        78.0      83.0        85.1        80
 Family planning acceptors     24.9        21        22.6        24.3      22.6        26.8        40
 (%)
 Antenatal care coverage       98.4       93.7       91.2        89.2      88.7        88.4        70
 (%)
 Supervised deliveries (%)     50.4       32.0       55.0        53.4      54.1        44.5       60*
 Postnatal care coverage                  53.6       55.0        53.3      52.7        55.9        65
 (%)                           52.5
 Structural Access Indicators
 Doctor to population ratio  1:20,036   1:18,274   1:16,759    1:17,615  1:10,380   1:10,700    1:16,500
 Nurse to population ratio    1:1,728    1:1,675    1:1,649    1:1,510    1:1,508    1:1,587    1:1,500
 % Tracer drug availability    70.0       85.0       85.0        87.5      84.7        73.8        80
 No. of functional CHPS         19         39         55         84        186           ..       400
 zones
*The target proposed in the PAD was 50%, with a baseline of 44%



                                                  28

       There was little explicit monitoring of equity improvements in health services during the POW-II,
       even though this was a key dimension of the strategy. Data on immunization coverage and
       outpatient visits for the years during POW-II was made available for analysis across Regions.
       This analysis demonstrates that equity in immunization coverage and health service delivery has
       improved in disadvantaged regions (defined as Northern, Upper East, and Upper West Regions).           1

       Immunization coverage for all five tracked vaccines (BCG, Measles, DPT3/Penta 3, OPV3, and
       Yellow Fever) showed overall improvement in Ghana by the end of POW-II. Immunization rates
       of all five vaccines follow a very similar pattern of decreases in coverage from 2002 to 2003 and
       then continuing to stagnate in 2004, followed by significant increases in coverage in 2005 and
       2006 (Figure 3.2.8). The increase in coverage rates increased most noticeably between 2004 and
       2005, but with significant improvements maintained in 2006. When the data are aggregated by
       regional groups, disadvantaged regions (Northern, Upper East, and Upper West Regions)
       outperform the rest of the country (Greater Accra and the other regions) by statistically significant
       differences every year between 2002 and 2006 (Figure 3.2.9).


           Figure 3.2.8 National Immunization Coverage, All Regions, 2002-2006

             105.00


             100.00


Coverage (%)  95.00


              90.00

                                                                                                  BCG
              85.00
                                                                                                  Measles

              80.00                                                                               DPT3

                                                                                                  OPV3
              75.00
                                                                                                  Yellow Fever


              70.00


              65.00


              60.00
                          2002          2003            2004          2005            2006

                                                        Year




       1Central Region has also been considered a disadvantaged Region in some of the annual POWs.




                                                         29

                     Figure 3.2.9 Measles Coverage by Region, 2002-2006


Coverage (%)   110.00




               100.00




                90.00




                80.00




                70.00




                60.00
                                               2002              2003              2004                2005               2006
                                                                            Year
                                                        All other regions                   GAR
                                                        Northern, UE, UW Regions            All regions (national average)




     The patterns are more complicated for outpatient visits per capita. Health worker strikes in late
     2002 and all of 2003 stopped of almost all reporting of outpatient services in these years, making
     interpretation of trends more difficult. After adjusting for periods of missing data, outpatient per
     capita appears to be increasing for some regions and is more variable in others (Figure 3.2.10). A
     more rigorous tracking of staff attendance patterns and health service outpatient use in each
     region would help to better assess whether there are changes in outpatient use across Regions.

     Figure 3.2.10

                                                      Outpatient Visits per Capita By Region,
                                                                              2000-2006

                     ati                     2.0

                        caprep               1.8                                                                              2000
                                             1.5                                                                              2001

                              sts            1.3                                                                              2002
                                             1.0                                                                              2003
                                 vitnei      0.8                                                                              2004
                                             0.5                                                                              2005
                                       atptuO0.3                                                                              2006
                                             0.0

                                              Western ntral    cra                    foNortheUp
                                                                                              rn per Eastper West TION AL
                                                     Ceeater Ac     Eastern Ashanti

                                                                                                     Up        NA
                                                     Gr                       Brong Aha

                                                                                  Region




                                                                                   30

Analyses of trends in disparities of health services by wealth group and Region were also
conducted using the Ghana Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), which were conducted in
1988, 1993, 1998, and 2003. The results show a number of improvements in access to services.
For example, there were improvements in coverage in deprived Regions for skilled birth
attendance and family planning use, reducing the disparity gaps by improving at greater rates than
more advantaged Regions. Improvements for the poorest groups of Ghanaians were also
achieved for: ORT use, ARI treatment, DPT3 coverage, antenatal care coverage, tetanus toxoid
vaccination, and family planning use, but not for skilled birth attendance. In looking at time
trends for the poor compared to wealthier groups, the gap between rich and poor for use of ORT
had been eliminated by 2003. There were also significant improvements in relative rates for
DPT3 coverage, antenatal care coverage, and tetanus toxoid vaccination coverage. However,
wealth disparities in skilled birth attendance and family planning use actually increased. More
details of these analyses will be available in the upcoming Country Status Report.

Conclusions. Weighing the range of information available on health service access, the overall
assessment is that a positive change has been made in overall access and equity of access during
the POW-II. There has generally been an increase or maintenance of indicators for the
availability of health services across Ghana during the POW-II. There is relatively little
information to assess changes in equity of service delivery, though the available data suggest that
there have been reductions in Regional disparities in access to some priority health services (e.g.
immunizations, skilled birth attendance and family planning), though in other areas the results are
less clear (e.g. outpatient and hospital use). When examining the changes in disparities for the
poor, it is also a largely positive, though mixed, picture. There were improvements for most
services that were measurable (ORT use, DPT3 coverage, antenatal care coverage, and tetanus
toxoid vaccination coverage), but not for two others (skilled birth attendance and family planning
use).

Strategy 2: Improvement in Quality of Health Delivery

There are several ways to assess quality of health services. The health status indicators described
above can be considered measures of quality of health services, though there are many other
factors that influence these outcomes, and so they are not good direct measures of the quality of
care. Similarly, some of the structural measurements showing increased access to care, such as
increasing the number of doctors and nurses, can also be considered as improvements in quality
of services. In this section, we consider the two sector-wide indicators that are most attributable
to the quality of clinical or public health service delivery (Table 3.2.7). The data indicate that
there was a high level of drug availability during the POW-II, with the target being achieved in all
years except 2006, and all showing an improvement over the baseline year. Tuberculosis cure
rates steadily improved and achieved the stated target (a modest one by international standards) in
all years of the POW-II. On this basis, the limited information that is available on quality of
health services at a sectoral level leaves a largely positive picture.

Table 3.2.7 Sector wide indicators of quality of service delivery

                                      2001     2002       2003      2004     2005      2006      Target
 Tracer drug availability (%)         70.0      85.0      85.0      87.5     84.7       73.8       80
 Tuberculosis cure rates (%)          44.9      53.8      63.9       65      67.6        ..        60


Despite the importance of quality of health services delivery, there is a lack of focus on strategies
for institutionalizing quality improvement. For example, there was little attention paid to tracking



                                                   31

quality improvements at the sectoral level. Although supervision and quality management
strategies did occur in the GHS, the work is not systematically documented or used as a basis for
changing strategies or re-allocating resources. Given the central role of equity in the POW-II,
more attention to the Regional and wealth disparities in quality of health services should have
been part of the system for performance review of health services. Overall, the strategy to
improving quality of health services likely made some positive gains during the POW-II, but it
was largely a lost opportunity that should have led to a more concerted effort and demonstration
of results.

Strategy 3: Improvement in Efficiency of Health Service Delivery

There is really only one of the sector wide indicators that can be used to directly examine
efficiency of health services delivery, which is one measure of hospital efficiency (bed occupancy
rate). On its own, it is a limited indicator of efficiency, which has even less value when not
assessed by level of facility or Region. As shown in Table 3.2.8, the overall levels appear to
decline in 2005 and 2006, and do not reach the 80% target in any year. Even without data on
other hospital efficiency indicators, the low bed occupancy rates suggest that there are gross
problems with unused bed capacity in the hospital sector.

Table 3.2.8 Sector wide indicator of efficiency of health services

                                     2001       2002      2003         2004      2005    2006   Target
 Bed occupancy rates (%)             61.6       65.5       64.1        62.7      58.4    50.9     80


A more rigorous assessment of health workforce productivity based on available data from 116
districts across Ghana and an index constructed from six types of inpatient, outpatient, and
outreach health services demonstrated that productivity decreased slightly between 2004 and
2006 (Vujicic et al 2006).

Indirect evidence concerning sectoral spending and health service outputs also suggest that there
have been efficiency losses during the POW-II. Throughout the POW-II period, the overall
recurrent health budget has increased substantially. This is largely attributable to significant
increases in the GHS wage bill, which has increased predominantly because of increases in
salaries, not from hiring more people. However, during this time, there has not been a
concomitant increase in the number or quality of health service delivered ­ the increases in health
services outputs have been very modest, with little evidence about changes in quality. However,
without substantial increases in wages, it is also likely that "brain drain" and labor unrest would
have been worse than it was during the POW-II, and that there would have been even greater
losses in efficiency had there not been an increase in wages.

Despite its place as a strategic pillar, there was relatively little attention placed on
institutionalizing assessment and decision-making related to efficiency concerns. The expansion
of community services and delivery of priority interventions was hampered by lack of funding for
recurrent expenditures, including the reimbursement of exemptions. Overall, the conclusion is
that there were major shortcomings in the strategy to improving efficiencies in health services
delivery.




                                                   32

Strategy 4: Fostering Partnerships

Progress towards fostering partnerships has been less than planned. There are no directly relevant
indicators used at the sector level or in the PAD to monitor progress for the activities described in
this area, which include partnerships with the private sector, empowerment of households and
communities, and collaboration across sectors. The CHPS strategy was intended to empower
communities, though there are little demonstrable changes in empowerment. A Patients' Charter
of Rights was passed into law and disseminated throughout the country. This was accompanied
by a provider "Code of Conduct", which was intended to improve staff behavior. Anecdotal
reports highlight increases in malpractice lawsuits and improvements in staff behavior. Yet the
dissemination and education efforts of the charter and code of conduct were not sustained. It is
difficult to assess how much effect they have had on consumer empowerment or on improving
quality, though it is unlikely to have much of an enduring effect without continued attention.

It is useful to note that the strategic objective concerning partnerships also included partnerships
with development partners, which was not part of the description of the area of focus in the POW-
II (or project "component" ­ see Annex 2). In dealing with development partners, there were
some clear successes in working through common management arrangements and continuing the
policy and planning dialogue of the SWAp. Yet some development partners increasing moved
towards project management support with earmarked funding, including off-budget financing,
undermining the effectiveness of the SWAp partnership.

A major strategic thrust of POW-II was to improve and establish formal commissioning
arrangements with non-governmental service providers. Yet during the five-year POW-II, only
one Memorandum of Understanding was signed very late and with one umbrella group for
mission hospitals: the Christian Health Association of Ghana (CHAG). Very little progress was
made in engaging the non-governmental sector in health services provision during POW-II.
Private sector facilities are still not accounted for during health sector planning or budgeting, nor
are they included in monitoring progress in the sector. Although the GOG has long recognized the
value and importance of including the non-governmental sector into its dialogue, planning, and
monitoring processes, few actions have matched the rhetoric.

Strategy 5: Improving Financing of the Health Sector

There were considerable accomplishments made in improving health financing during
implementation of the POW-II, with some significant shortcomings in making health financing
more equitable (see Table 3.2.9). The proportion of the GOG budget allocated to health has
doubled from 2001 to 2006, reaching the Abuja target2 of 15% in 2005 and surpassing it in 2006.
The proportion of GOG allocations to health of total GOG public expenditure is slightly lower--
at about 13% in 2006.

The proportion of GOG recurrent funds allocated to health has also increased from 2002-2006.
This increase, however, is due in large part to increases instituted by the wage bill and dedicated
funding for personal emoluments. Thus, the increase in the wage budget was not met with a
commensurate increase in the non-wage budget. The GOG, therefore, has continually overspent



2 In 2001, African Union countries established the Abuja target of attaining a 15% of national budgets for
the health sector.




                                                   33

on its capital and wage budgets, and under spent on its non-wage recurrent budgets-- to the
detriment of needed resources for delivering health services.


Table 3.2.9. Sector-wide health financing indicators
           Indicators           2001       2002       2003      2004       2005      2006     Target

 % GOG budget on health          8.7       9.3         9.1       8.2        15        18        15*
 % GOG recurrent budget on       10.2      11.5       11.2      11.9        14.5      14         15
 health

 % GOG recurrent health on       8.1       5.9         6.9       5.4        6.6        7
 non-salary items (2+3)

 % spending on districts and               40.9       35.4      37.9        36        40         43
 below, items 2+3

 % Earmarked / total DP          62.3      32.8       39.5      26.3         40       61         40

 % IGF from pre-payment           3                                                              10
 schemes

 % Recurrent funds from          1.2                                        3.1                  2
 GOG+HF allocated to CSOs

 % Recurrent funds. on           3.6                                         8        2.2        8
 exemptions
 Per capita expenditure on       6.3       8.1        10.5      13.5        19       25.4
 health (USD)

Source: Annual sector review, 2006.
*        Abuja target of 15%.



Although the funding of exemptions for the poor and other priority groups was a priority for the
sector, this funding has been chronically insufficient throughout POW-II. Exemptions funding
increased in 2005, partly as a result of the maternal exemptions policy which was implemented
nationally that year. The policy was only partially implemented, however, when funds abruptly
ran out in the middle of the year. Funding for exemptions has since dropped to 2.2% in 2006. The
National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) is expected to replace the exemption policy, but full
implementation of this arrangement will take time. Enrollment for those in the "exempt" category
of the NHIS has surpassed expectations, yet there are delays and inconsistencies in obtaining full
coverage. This transition may causes gaps in access to services for the poor and, therefore, may
ultimately negatively impact their health status.

There is some evidence that equity in public financing health is improving slightly. An analysis of
the Ghana Living Standards Surveys from 1991-92 to 2005-06 suggests that benefit incidence of
public spending at health clinics has improved to a point where it equally distributed across
income groups (Coulombe & Wodon 2007). However, the distribution of public spending at
hospitals has changed little, and still favors richer segments of the population.

The introduction of the NHIS in 2003 was a landmark achievement for Ghana, which abolished
its "cash and carry" system, though it continues to exist in practice to varying degrees across the
country. This financing modality creates new opportunities to leveraging institutional changes to
improve quality and productivity in health services in addition to improving financial protection
to impact access and equity.


                                                   34

External financing for the health sector has recently changed, presenting several challenges that
the MOH must manage. The Health Fund, which provided flexible funding to BMCs, has largely
disappeared, as more donors have moved to budget support or earmarked funding. The loss of the
Health Fund means that BMCs have less flexibility in how they can spend their money, which
was reported to be a valuable tool for BMC managers to improve health service delivery.
Similarly, donor funds have increased as a proportion of total funding, allowing national priority
health programs to be financed by unpredictable financing. And finally, several donors have
shifted their support to general budget support, slowing and reducing the accessibility of funds for
the MOH from the MOFEP. These challenges must be managed carefully in order to maintain
the progress made in health financing during the POW-II.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Overall, efficiency in the health sector was not well monitored despite being a strategic pillar of
the POW-II. All the direct and indirect evidence available point to a deterioration of efficiency
during the POW-II (see Section 3.2, Strategy 3).

Financial analysis in the PAD predicted that GOG financial contributions to the health sector
would increase from 7.5% of its overall budget in 2001 to 8.0% in 2006. This target was below
the Abuja target of 15% of total Government spending on health, but was considered realistic
with budget constraints and health sector spending during project design. Likewise, the GOG's
recurrent budget spent on health was expected to increase from 11% in 2001 to up to 13% in 2006.

The Government of Ghana exceeded the financial targets set forth in the beginning of the project.
In 2005 and 2006, about 15% and 18%, respectively, of the total Government budget (which
includes all expenditures) was spent on health. Moreover, 14.5% in 2005 and 14% in 2006 of the
recurrent budget was spent on health. The Government increased its commitment to funding the
health sector in real financial terms, achieving the Abuja targets.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The Bank's evaluation criteria for the extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives
are achieved (or are expected to be achieved) involves a rating scale that is based on "weighing
possible shortcoming in the achievements of the operation's objectives, in its efficiency, or in its
relevance." (OPCS 2007) The overall outcome rating is thus defined according to the degree of
shortcomings in these areas.

Although the PDOs (the vision and strategic objectives of the POW-II) remain highly relevant to
the country's development and the Bank's country assistance strategy and overall corporate goals,
the weight of the evidence suggests that there were significant shortcomings in the operation's
achievement of its objectives, as well as in its efficiency, which is consistent with the Bank's
criteria for a moderately unsatisfactory rating. The POW-II did, on balance, show greater success
than failure in progress towards its vision, largely because of equity gains in mortality and
malnutrition, as well as the overall improvements in malnutrition. However, there was a slowing
down of reductions in the measured mortality indicators. There were also substantial gains in
achieving it strategic objectives, such as in increasing access to priority services, reducing


                                                  35

inequalities in service delivery, and introducing a rapidly expanding NHIS. However, there were
also significant shortcomings in efficiency, institutional reforms, and partnerships with the private
sector. Other than the introduction of NHIS, where an assessment of results is premature, there
have also been significant shortcomings with the allocation and use of public funds for recurrent
and capital expenditures.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty and equity aspects are addressed in more detail in Sections 3.2 and Annex 2 of this report,
since the POW-II clearly highlights its intention to improve geographic, poverty, and gender
disparities in health. The available data indicate that there have been substantial improvements in
several measurements of equity in health outcomes, as well as improvements in equity of health
services. However, management decision-making and the regular review of sector performance
did not incorporate sufficient attention to poverty and equity considerations -- none of the sector-
wide indicators of the POW-II focused on health equity, and incentives were not aligned with
improving health equity.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The institutional conflict between the MOH and GHS had a major impact on the implementation
of the POW-II. Both agencies sought to have authority over control of resources and decisions.
As a result, the performance contracts, which was intended to be the major mechanism for
aligning incentives for improving service quality and productivity was undermined. The same
approach for developing a more constructive and transparent relationship with non-state providers
also suffered as a result of the conflict between MOH and GHS. The question of who had the
authority to spend on capital works became a major point of conflict between the MOH and GHS,
resulting in a loss of transparency in the selection of capital works. In addition, the agencies set
up duplicated structures, which often appeared to be in competition with each other, and tended to
fragment efforts to develop more coherent approaches in human resources, quality assurance, and
partnerships. Fortunately, as the POW-II ended, there appeared to be diminishment of the
conflict, though it's not clear that there is a long-term resolution.

During POW-II, substantial achievements were still made in terms of developing mature financial
management systems, procurement systems, and decentralization. The institutional capacity to
support decentralized BMCs in their planning, budgeting, and implementing their own work
programs remains strong, even if more could have been done if the GHS and MOH had worked
more synchronously.

Perhaps one of the most important institutional accomplishments of POW-II is the establishment
of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). The NHIS, borne out of a law enacted in 2003,
has increased significantly in terms of size and scope over the past few years. The NHIS has
demonstrated significant capacity early on, as enrollment has surpassed expectations and the
Scheme has tried to expand quickly to meet demand. There are challenges to the Scheme's
success, mainly in achieving timely financial payments, ensuring exemption coverage, and
maintaining positive public opinion. However, the institutional capacity development for the
NHIS is promising and is a significant achievement during POW-II, and promises a new way to
align incentives and performance in health service delivery.


                                                   36

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

One of the main purposes of the SWAp's "basket" funding (the Health Fund) was that the
Government would be able to set its own priorities by applying predictable, fungible, and
available funds to support the work of its budget and management centers (BMCs). However,
contrary to logic, as POW-II progressed, donor funding became more unpredictable and less
accessible to the health sector. This phenomenon hinged on two occurrences: (a) donors moving
from the Health Fund to budget support; and (b) donors earmarking a greater proportion of their
funds for the health sector. The shift to budget support, although in line with the principles of the
Paris Declaration, compromised the predictability and accessibility of funds to the health sector.
In the long-term, the hope is the MOH and MOFEP will be able to work out their internal
processes to allow for predictable financing. However, in the meantime, the health sector has
faced a huge shock as the Health Fund has been reduced drastically in size and more donors are
funding off-budget, earmarked programs. Thus, one short-term impact of shifting to budget
support has been a reversion back to project-like funding.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
Stakeholder workshops and a beneficiary survey were not carried out in preparation for this ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Diligent efforts will be required to ensure that the past gains made under the SWAp are not lost.
The sector currently faces the following challenges that may jeopardize progress: (a) financing of
the health sector has become more complicated, both internally and externally; (b) scale-up of the
NHIS to nation-wide coverage may delay health services, particularly for the poor; (c) continued
failure to properly monitor human resources for health; and (d) decentralization of budgets to
district governments may cause fragmentation and confusion.

Donor commitments have dropped off following the shift from pooling funds to budget support
and there are signs that the Government's execution rate is retarding as processes become more
complicated. The shift by some donors to budget support has also been characterized by an
increase in earmarked funding. As a result, the MOH has funded its national priority health
programs with earmarked funds, since this is one of the only ways to access such funding. The
result is that Ghana's priority health programs are financed largely by unpredictable financing,
compromising their long-term viability. BMCs were established and functioned well when using
flexible funds available through the Health Fund. As the Health Fund has been replaced by funds
provided through the MOFEP, there is a risk that not having flexible funds available will
undermine the capacity of peripheral BMCs to manage resources and deliver services.

In addition, it is not clear how the poor and the vulnerable will fair as the NHIS is rolled-out
nationwide. There has already been concern that the scheme will not be financially viable enough
to cover those in exempt categories until about 50% of the country is enrolled. While this
prediction may be a little pessimistic, there is still little evidence that the NHIS is having a
positive affect on improving access, quality, and equity in health services. It will be critical to
monitor health service indicators among equity groups to determine the effect of the NHIS on
equitable distribution and access.




                                                   37

The human resources for health crisis continues to plague Ghana. With so much of the
Government's recurrent budget for health tied up in personal emoluments and salaries, there is
very little room for creating performance incentives for medical staff or further developing its
human resources strategy. The Government needs to modify its human resources for health
performance indicators. Staff to population ratios are insufficient indicators for monitoring human
resources as a whole. The monitoring system needs to focus on new staff training rates, retention
rates, geographic distribution, and performance in terms of coverage, equity, and quality.

Finally, the potential decentralization of budgets and financial management to district
governments may cause fragmentation in health financing and conflict over resources and
implementation responsibilities. This could increase the potential conflict and duplication
between the MOH, GHS, local governments, and the NHIS.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Although
the Bank ensured that the project was strategically relevant, the Bank failed to conduct the
sufficient analysis and evaluation that could have contributed greatly to the design of the project.
Nevertheless, the design of another sector-wide approach for this project was appropriate, given
the perceived success of the first SWAp and a strong donor contingency interested in supporting
further nationally-owned strategies and processes. The financial and economic aspects of project
design were sound, with adequate consideration of the environmental and fiduciary aspects.
Implementation arrangements were clearly stated in the PAD, with oversight of procurement
retained by the Bank. In addition, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that was signed by
the MOH and all cooperating partners in December 2002, built on the Common Management
Arrangement endorsed by all development partners in 2001.

The Bank fell short in its analysis of institutions and their potential roles of contribution or
hindrance to achieving the objectives of POW-II. More effort should have been spent evaluating
the policy and institutional interactions for implementation of POW-II. Furthermore, and perhaps
most importantly, preparation for the HSPSP-II failed to adequately analyze and evaluate the
poverty differentials in terms of health status and access to health services. Although a stated
priority in both the PAD and POW-II (in fact, equity is the centerpiece of POW-II's vision), the
Bank did not, at the time of project design nor thereafter, successfully evaluate or analyze how
differentials in health equity (geographic, financial, and sociocultural) were to be addressed. This
is unfortunate, not only because improving equity was essential to achieving POW-II's vision, but
also because this is a key area where the Bank is well-positioned to contribute substantively.

The Bank's inability to ensure that POW-II adequately addressed equity is evidenced in its
monitoring and evaluation system. Mortality indicators were specified to include regional data to
indicate disparities; however, these data were largely unavailable and insensitive to annual sector-
wide changes or improvements. Consequently, regional health disparities were mostly unreported
and therefore not available to inform sector dialogue or policy. Similarly, a public expenditure
tracking survey was not conducted until the very end of the project, even though it was cited as a



                                                  38

needed exercise and could have been instrumental in informing resource allocation to improve
equity.

The monitoring and evaluation system should have included sector-wide indicators that would be
direct measures of equity, and particularly to compare equity performance across functional units
of the sector. In addition, the sector-wide indicators focused mostly on health outcomes and
service provision data, with insufficient measures of intermediate outcomes in terms of achieving
institutional change. Thus, although implementation of the POW-II was very successful in
improving sector capacity and institutional change, particularly at district and regional levels,
monitoring and evaluation of the sector failed to capture these improvements.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Bank's quality of supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory, because, on balance, there
were moderate shortcomings in the Bank's identification of opportunities and resolution of threats,
the basis for assessment on the Bank's rating scale.

The Bank was noted for being a cooperative and supportive partner of the MOH throughout
implementation of POW-II. Despite that development partners' discussions with the MOH had
become adversarial and contentious at times in the last few years of POW-II, the Bank was cited
time and again as maintaining a professional dialogue with the MOH to foster donor cooperation
and adherence to the principles of the SWAp. The Bank benefited greatly from a greater presence
in the field when the TTL of the project was moved from Headquarters in Washington, DC to the
Ghana Country Office in order to establish much more fluid and frank discussion with the MOH
and development partners. The Bank also closely cooperated with the Government in assessing
human resources productivity and the related fiscal constraints imposed by the Government's
policy decisions concerning the wage bill.

Implementation of POW-II also benefited from the Bank's technical guidance on financial
management and procurement matters. This technical support was a successful and meaningful
contribution to the MOH's implementation of the project and further developed institutional
capacity. In addition, the Bank's candor and quality of performance reporting was high, through
the identification and explanation of some difficult and important issues during implementation of
the POW-II.

The moderate shortcomings noted in the Bank's performance during implementation of POW-II
relate to the: (a) focus on development impact; and (b) adequacy of supervision of inputs and
processes. The Bank consistently called attention to concerns over health outcomes, but tended to
be complacent about relying on national averages of health outcomes and service delivery rather
than more rigorously investigating concerns about health equity or variation in performance. This
is problematic given that health disparities and performance monitoring were highlighted at
appraisal as areas where the Bank would focus its attention. The reporting on the sector-wide
indicators was inadequate in terms of measuring equity (and efficiency), and the Bank was not
able to correct this despite the investigations it initiated into disparities in health towards the end
of the POW-II. As a result, poverty differentials in health were not accounted for and resource
allocations were not changed accordingly.

Despite raising issues of the capital investment plan with the Government, the Bank was unable
to successfully influence Government to follow through on its early efforts to prepare and


                                                   39

implement a capital investment plan that would reflect the priorities of the GPRS and the POW-II.
Control over capital investment became a major point of contention between the MOH and GHS,
and donors seemed to use the conflict between agencies to create uncertainty and push their own
agendas. The Bank had a crucial role to play in ensuring that the capital investment plan was
adequately based on priorities. Instead, capital works spending between 2002 and 2005 was twice
the forecasted amount and there is little evidence that resources were well allocated to address
underlying poverty and efficiency problems. Although the Bank was a major contributor to the
Health Fund, it is unclear how much leverage the Bank had over the implementation of the
overall capital investment program, though more might have been done in 2003 to 2005 to
independently investigate expenditures ­ a potentially risky intervention. A long-promised public
expenditure tracking survey would have helped in assessing both recurrent and capital
expenditures (it was conducted in 2007), though it's not clear that there was sufficient
cooperation to conduct it properly in early years.

Finally, the Bank also stated its intention at appraisal to focus on improving access to quality
HIV/AIDS services. It reasonably pursued this largely through the development and financing of
a separate HIV/AIDS project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The overall rating for the Bank's performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory, based on the
guidelines used by the Bank. The Bank's ratings guidelines state that when a rating for one
dimension of Bank performance is in the satisfactory range while the rating for the other
dimension is in the unsatisfactory range, the overall rating depends on the outcome rating.
Because the outcome rating is in the unsatisfactory range, this overall rating is also on the
unsatisfactory side.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Government's performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. In general, the Government
exemplified a strong commitment to achieving the POW-II's strategic development objectives,
surpassing the financing targets set out in the beginning of POW-II and instituting relevant
policies to improve the health sector (e.g., the wage bill and National Health Insurance Scheme).
Implementation of POW-II occurred shortly after a new Government came into power. It was
notable that much of focus of POW-I remained unchanged, and the health sector was able to
proceed with its five-year strategic plan. The Government also engaged with stakeholders and
development partners in SWAp discussions through annual Health Summits and other relevant
dialogue venues. The Government could have expanded its consultations by including more civil
society and non-governmental providers into the sector dialogue.

The Government created systems that facilitated implementation from fiduciary oversight to
transition arrangements. The Government fell short in properly ensuring that processes were in
place and transitional arrangements were made to transfer funds from MOFEP to MOH when
donors, specifically the Bank, moved from the Health Fund to general budget support in 2006.
However, this type of shortfall is not necessarily indicative of a long-term Government failure, as
such an experience should serve as an impetus for the MOFEP and MOH to work out their
internal processes to allow for predictable financing.



                                                  40

The Government's performance faced moderate shortcomings in the design, implementation, and
utilization of monitoring and evaluation. Although the Government set out to improve equity in
health, almost none of the indicators for the evaluation system measured equity. Moreover, the
indicators failed to measure capacity indicators that could have served as milestones for
improving equity, such as certain measures for improved human resources capacity. In addition,
the cornerstone of the Government's vision for its health sector was not evaluated appropriately
to inform policy and resource allocation. The MOH often relied on the annual sector reviews to
aggregate and evaluate data, leaving the critical evaluation role of the Government out of the
equation.

The Government maintained good relationships and coordination with some of its donors,
partners, and stakeholders, but not all. Sector-wide dialogue sometimes excluded certain partners,
particularly those who were not contributing to the pooled Health Fund. Discussions with partners
also became adversarial at times. Nevertheless, the Government made adequate transition
arrangements to support the operation of activities after the Bank's credit and grant ended, as the
SWAp continues with the POW-III and a new POW for 2007.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The rating is based on the overall assessment of significant shortcomings in implementing
agencies' performance, the standard used for Bank evaluation.

The performance of the implementing agencies, the Ministry of Health and Ghana Health Service,
suffered due to their failure to be able to work together more coherently, which undermined
policy and implementation of the POW-II. Following the re-launch of the GHS in 2003, the
MOH and GHS clashed repeatedly over which organization had the authority over many policy
and implementation decisions. This resulted in a collapse of the intended approach to align
incentives and financing through performance agreements, and the intended approach to better
exploit the potential of the private sector. Ultimately, this internal conflict diverted time and
resources away from the strategies set to achieve POW-II's objective, particularly at headquarters
and regional levels.

In many other respects, the performance of the implementing agencies was appropriate for
implementing the POW-II. The capabilities of the district level BMC's and the Regional offices
was instrumental in achieving modest improvements in service coverage and equity during the
POW-II, aside from periods of labor unrest. Improvement in some management systems, such as
financial management and procurement of goods also improved over the POW-II. The successful
introduction of the NHIS is also an important accomplishment from this period.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The overall rating for Borrower performance is moderately unsatisfactory, based on the
guidelines used by the Bank. The Bank's ratings guidelines state that when a rating for one
dimension of Borrower performance is in the satisfactory range while the rating for the other
dimension is in the unsatisfactory range, the overall rating depends on the outcome rating.
Because the outcome rating is in the unsatisfactory range, this overall rating is also on the
unsatisfactory side.




                                                  41

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

With the completion of HSPSP-II's support to Ghana's health SWAp, reflection on its
achievements as well as weaknesses reveals several lessons. One lesson is that a stronger analytic
base is needed even when things appear to be going well, as was the case when the HSPSP-II was
approved. In-depth analysis and debate concerning equity of health services and outcomes,
efficiency of health services, and institutional analyses would have been particularly helpful in
anticipating problems and furthering the agenda set by the POW-II and the GPRS.

It is also clear that donor behavior is critical to the success or failure of a SWAp. Donors need to
be disciplined about their funding support to a sector and hold other donors accountable for their
actions. Donors can easily revert back to earmarked, off-budget funding that compromises the
Government's attention to the SWAp's implementation and success, while tempting other donors
to follow suit and push for their own agendas as well. Other development partners moved towards
budget support, which can also cause disruptions at the sectoral level. Safeguards should be
instituted to ensure that shifts to general budget support are upheld by processes to ensure a
smooth transition in financing modalities. Donor shifts to budget support are in line with the Paris
Declaration, however, countries need to be ready for this transition ahead of time to ensure that
the predictability of funds is not interrupted.

There were also design flaws that were not well addressed during the POW-II, and the Bank's
conceptualization of investment lending helped to reinforce some of the design flaws. In
particular, treating the long-term vision as a project development objective helped to change
expectations (that a set of investments and plans would lead to a set of measurable mortality
changes on a national scale during a project period). The dialogue between MOH and
development partners spent considerable time dealing with unmet expectations, even though the
results could not have been measured during the POW-II period, much less have been attributable
to the POW-II. The artificial structure of components imposed by Bank documentation is unlikely
to have affected implementation of the program in a significant way, but it did not help to support
SWAp strategies or contribute to meaningful monitoring and evaluation.

In Ghana's case, there was inordinate attention on results that were not under control of the health
sector, using a monitoring and evaluation system that was not sufficiently aligned with strategic
priorities, and so was not able to move further towards a performance-based health system.
These factors can seriously undermine achievement of sector objectives. Intermediate and long-
term outcomes need to be appropriately identified to properly measure progress towards
achievement of objectives and, if needed, respond and adjust to risks to those objectives. It is
extremely difficult to improve and redirect policies and programs if they are not appropriately
measured and monitored. In addition, the lack of valid, measurable progress underscores the need
to link financing with measurable performance targets to ensure timely and appropriate
monitoring and evaluation so that programs and policies may be adapted, as necessary.

In Ghana, the problems were both technical and institutional. Institutional competition and
overlap and the failure to resulting capture the contributions of the non-governmental sector are
issues that have both technical and political dimensions, and an area where outside facilitation
and input may be helpful.




                                                    42

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Government prepared its own implementation completion report based largely on an analysis
of the independent review of the sector performance and additional interviews with key
stakeholders in government and development partners (see Annex 7 for details of the report). The
report describes a mixed picture in terms of achieving the intended objectives of the POW-II, as
identified by the changes in the sector-wide indicators. Difficulties in managing the transition of
the MOH and its agencies are noted, along with considerable successes in developing common
management arrangements, and in the dialogue and support provided by the Bank. The overall
conclusion is that Government merits a "pass mark" for the implementation of the POW-II, and
that there remain considerable challenges and optimism for addressing inequity and effectiveness
of the health sector in the future. These findings and conclusions are consistent with the analysis
of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

No additional comments.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

No additional comments.




                                                 43

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

YEAR 2002                                7.50               0.00            0%
YEAR 2003                              15.00                0.00            0%
YEAR 2004                              20.00              29.97            150%
YEAR 2005                              20.00              59.62            298%
YEAR 2006                              27.50              10.62             38%
YEAR 2007                                0.00               0.51             --
YEAR 2008                                0.00               0.31             --


            Total Baseline Cost        90.0              101.03            112%

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs         0.00               0.00
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required           0.00               0.00




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                           638.00       627.19         98%
Local Communities                                  75.00         70.00         93%
International Development
Association (IDA)                                  57.30         68.40        119%

IDA GRANT FOR POOREST
COUNTRY                                            32.30         38.50        119%

FOREIGN SOURCES
(UNIDENTIFIED)                                     310.40       253.26         82%




                                           44

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Bank's evaluation structure requires an assessment of the outputs from a set of components,
even though this does not fit well with the design of the POW-II. Although the overall vision,
goals, and strategic objectives of the program remained the same throughout, there are no
components described in the POW-II. The PAD and the Development Financing Agreement
highlight ten areas of focus that are consistent with the ten chapters of the POW-II that follow the
strategic vision. These areas are treated as components in the logical framework of the PAD.
However, the PAD also identifies each year's program of work as a component when describing
the financing of the program. Although the ten focus areas were identified as components in the
DFA description of the project, they were not formally revised, and were not treated as
components in the POW-II. The description of focus areas changed substantially by the 2003
Program of Work, and continued to be modified annually. To be consistent with the Bank's
evaluation methodology, outcomes and outputs of the program could be assessed according to the
five strategic pillars and the original ten focus areas of the DFA. Since we have already
considered the strategic pillars in the context of the project development objective (Section 3.2),
this annex focuses more specifically on the outputs of the ten original focus areas that can serve
as "components":

         1. Strengthening priority health interventions;
         2. Developing human resources for health services;
         3. Enhancing infrastructure and support services;
         4. Fostering partnerships for health;
         5. Improving regulation;
         6. Reforming institutions arrangements;
         7. Improving the health sector financing;
         8. Improving financial management systems;
         9. Further strengthening management; and
         10. Linking with traditional medicine.

1) Strengthening priority health interventions

Priority health interventions were identified by the GOG as those having a direct impact on health
outcomes and improving health status. Although the priority interventions change from year to
year, the original priority interventions that are monitored on a sector-wide basis include:

         · HIV prevention, treatment, and care
         · TB services
         · Malaria prevention
         · Maternity services (antenatal care, delivery, and post-natal care)
         · Childhood immunization
         · Family planning
         · Guinea worm eradication
         · Polio eradication

This component can be seen as being largely successful in producing targeted outputs. As shown
in Table 1, targets were achieved in 2006 for five of the eight sector-wide output indicators
related to priority programs. The results demonstrate that the high rates of immunization and
antenatal care that were achieved during the previous POW were sustained at even higher levels.
The AFP rate suggests that the surveillance system was succeeding in helping Ghana fulfill



                                                   45

commitments for polio eradication. The three indicators that did not reach their target are related
to pregnancy and delivery. There was very little change in the family planning and post-natal
care coverage.

Table 1: Sector wide outputs for priority interventions

                                     2001        2002      2003        2004       2005      2006   Target
                                  (Baseline)
 Penta 3 coverage (%)*               76.3        78.0       76.0       75.0        85.0     84.2    80
 Measles coverage (%)                82.4        83.7       79.0       78.0        83.0     85.1    80
 Family planning acceptors (%)       24.9         21        22.6       24.3        22.6     26.8    40
 Antenatal care coverage (%)         98.4        93.7       91.2       89.2        88.7     88.4    70
 Supervised deliveries (%)           50.4        32.0       55.0       53.4        54.1     44.5   60**
 Postnatal care coverage (%)         52.5        53.6       55.0       53.3        52.7     55.9    65
 Maternal deaths audited (%)         10.0        84.0       85.0       55.9        75.6      52     50
 Acute flaccid paralysis (AFP)        2.8         1.9        1.3       1.5         1.68     1.55    >1
 non polio rate (%)
*       DPT3 was replaced by Penta 3 vaccine in 2004
**      The target proposed in the PAD was 50%, with a baseline of 44%

The case of supervised deliveries merits further attention. As part of an effort to reduce maternal
mortality, much emphasis was placed on increasing supervised deliveries and audit maternal
deaths. A policy was introduced in 2003 to exempt users from delivery fees in order to encourage
mothers (particularly the poor) to delivery at health facilities. A review of the exemption policy in
2005 found that the policy proved successful in dramatically increasing the amount of women
delivering in health care facilities until the funds ran out, leading to facility indebtedness.
Consequently, the 2006 exemption allocation was used to pay this debt, allowing for virtually no
funds to be available for the exemption program for deliveries (Witter & Adjei 2007). The results
in Table 1 suggest that higher levels were being achieved from 2003 to 2005 (surpassing the
original target of 50%).

Table 2 indicates the health outcome and impact indicators that are specifically related to priority
programs. The targets for tuberculosis cure rates were met by the second year of the POW-II,
whereas the target to eliminate guinea worm during the POW was not achieved. There seem to
have been program failures in specific parts of the country during 2003 and 2004, due in part to
local armed conflict and internal migration (the "Dagbon Crisis"). Although the target was not
met, surveillance and control activities were mobilized to respond to these conditions, leading to
reduced levels in 2005 and 2006. Interpretation of the other indicators is not as straightforward.
HIV seroprevalence is not a good indicator of program performance, as the rate can increase if
patients are living longer due to treatment, or if people with HIV are more likely to be tested, both
indicators of successful programs (they can also decrease if people die). Prevalence can also
increase if more people are becoming infected, which is not a successful trend. The under-five
malaria case fatality indicator did not have a target, and requires consistent case definition and
reporting. Since most deaths do not occur in hospitals or where a definitive diagnosis can be
made, it is hard to tell whether changes in rates are related to reporting or to real differences.




                                                   46

Table 2: Sector-wide health outcomes and impact indicators for priority interventions

                                   2001        2002       2003        2004       2005        2006     Target
 Tuberculosis cure rate (%)         44.9       53.8        63.9        65          ..         67.6      60
 Guinea worm cases                 4733        5545       8290        7275       3992        2968        0
 HIV seroprevalence (%)              2.9        3.4        3.6         3.6        3.1         2.9       2.6
 Under five malaria case             1.7        3.7        3.6         2.7        2.4         2.7       n/a
 fatality rate (%)



2) Developing human resources for health

A number of interventions to develop human resources for health (HRH) were implemented
during the POW-II. However, a coherent human resources strategy was lacking, and the efforts
were not well linked to the strategic objectives to improve quality of services, responsiveness to
client needs, efficiency in service provision, improved financing, or to the vision of reducing
inequities. The crude indicators used to demonstrate increased success in human resources
through tracking the numbers of doctors and nurses per capita were actually achieved (Table 3).
The HRH indicators proposed in the PAD were not used during the POW-II.

Notwithstanding the achievement of the overall human resource targets in the sector program, it
is difficult to see if the increase in doctors and nurses has had positive effects in the strategic
areas of the POW-II. The additional duty hour allowance (ADHA) put in place significant
financial incentives to retain staff in the public sector, yet these salary increases were not tied to
increased performance, whether measured as increased productivity or enhancement of service
quality. They also did not appear to reduce geographic imbalances. In addition, the deprived
area incentive allowance (DAIA), designed to improve equity in geographic access to health
workers, was only partially implemented, and could not be sustained. By excluding some
categories of staff (e.g. accounts staff), it also seemed to build resentment among those who could
not benefit from the scheme. Moreover, the ADHA, although successful in improving retention
of doctors and reducing health worker strikes that were particularly problematic in 2003, it has
also crippled the GOG health budget. In 2005, almost 97% of GOG's health expenditures went to
salaries and ADHA, leaving the Government little flexibility to use the money for other purposes.

Table 3: Sector-wide indicators on human resources

                                 2001        2002         2003        2004       2005        2006     Target
 Doctor to population ratio    1:20,036    1:18,274    1:16,759     1:17,615    1:10,380    1:10,700  1:16,500
 Nurse to population ratio      1:1,728     1:1,675     1:1,649      1:1,510    1:1,508     1:1,587   1:1,500



3) Enhancing infrastructure and support services

An early effort was made to prepare a Capital Investment Plan (2002-2006) that would reflect the
priorities of the GPRS and the POW-II. In addition to listing infrastructure projects, it outlined a
shift allocations in capital works so that 74.8% of the expenditures would be made at district and
subdistrict levels, 8.2% to the Regional level (especially to fund Regional training centers), and
17.0% to the tertiary level. It also addressed concerns about how to deal with the recurrent cost
implications of capital expenditures, and to improve the transparency in prioritization of sites and
procurement.



                                                    47

Considerable infrastructure investments were made in constructing, rehabilitating and equipping
clinical and administrative facilities. Other achievements included the enactment of the
Procurement Act to codify procurement procedures, the adoption of a health transport policy, and
application of procedures to the use of standardized designs and equipment lists for small
facilities for CHPS compounds, health centers and district hospitals.

However, there was relatively little attention to monitoring the capital investment plan during
implementation of the POW-II. Systematic records on capital investment across the sector are
not maintained. There are no relevant indicators included in the sector wide indicators, and those
identified in the PAD were not used. There are multiple sources of funding, increasingly
dependent on donor financing, and multiple authorizations. It appears that about $204.6 million
was actually spent on capital works compared to the original forecast of about $100.8 million for
2002-2005. About 68% of spending occurred at the district level and below from 2002-2005,
6.7% at the Regional level, and 25.2% at the tertiary level.

The large spending at the district level and below reflect the large number of health centers and
health compounds that were built and rehabilitated. The Community-based Health Planning and
Services (CHPS) strategy made significant progress in scaling-up from 19 functional CHPS zones
in 2001 to about 270 in 2005. Much of the strategies achievements were related to completion of
infrastructure components, even as some zones lacked health workers, resources, or the
community involvement necessary to make them functional.

The increase at the tertiary level represents funding of hospital and central administration of the
GHS. The question of who had the authority to spend on capital works became a major point of
conflict between the GHS and the MOH, resulting in a loss of transparency in the selection of
capital works.

In summary, although there was extensive investment in health infrastructure during the POW-II
and some improvements in policies and procedures, there remains no overall planning framework
and an inadequate monitoring system for capital investments. The health sector is overdeveloping
facilities and equipment in some locations and under-investing in other areas. Public sector
health facilities appear to have expanded beyond the limits of available operating funds and
staffing.

4) Fostering partnerships for health

Although fostering partnerships is one of the strategic pillars of the POW-II, progress has been
less than planned. There are no directly relevant indicators used at the sector level or in the PAD
to monitor progress for the activities described in this area, which include partnerships with the
private sector, empowerment of households and communities, and collaboration across sectors.
The CHPS strategy was intended to empower communities, though there are little demonstrable
changes in empowerment. A Patients' Charter of Rights was passed into law and disseminated
throughout the country, including campaigns to reduce "poor staff attitudes". This was
accompanied by a provider "Code of Conduct", which was intended to improve staff behavior.
Anecdotal reports highlight increases in malpractice lawsuits and improvements in staff behavior.
Yet the dissemination and education efforts of the charter and code of conduct were not sustained.
It is difficult to assess how much effect they have had on consumer empowerment or on
improving quality, though it is unlikely to have much of an enduring effect without continued
attention.



                                                  48

It is useful to note that the strategic objective concerning partnerships also included partnerships
with development partners, which was not part of the description of the focus area. In dealing
with development partners, there were some clear successes in working through common
management arrangements and continuing the policy and planning dialogue of the SWAp. Yet
some development partners increasing moved towards project management support with
earmarked funding, including off-budget financing, undermining the effectiveness of the SWAp
partnership (see section 3.2 for further details).

A major strategic thrust of POW-II was to improve and establish formal commissioning
arrangements with non-governmental service providers. Yet during the five-year POW-II, only
one Memorandum of Understanding was signed with the Christian Health Association of Ghana
(CHAG), an umbrella organization for mission hospitals. This was another example of an area of
dispute between the GHS and the MOH, as both organizations felt that they had the authority and
responsibility to oversee such compacts. Other initiatives, such as a "Strategic Initiatives Fund"
intended to bring together NGOs were labor intensive and small scale operations that did not get
beyond the pilot scale. As a result, very little progress was made in engaging the non-
governmental sector in health services provision during POW-II. Private sector facilities are still
not accounted for during health sector planning or budgeting, nor are they included in monitoring
progress in the sector. Although the GOG has long recognized the value and importance of
including the non-governmental sector into its dialogue, planning, and monitoring processes, few
actions have matched the rhetoric.

5) Improving regulation

The POW-II intended to increase consumer protection and empower and make statutory bodies
more accountable, and has been partially successful. As described above, the Patient's Charter
and provider Code of Conduct seemed to have initial positive effects that have not been sustained.
Wider regulatory reforms that are relevant to the health sector include the establishment of a
Commissioner for Human Rights and Administrative Justice, which hears complaints to protect
consumers, and the passing of a Procurement Act to improve the transparency in procurement
processes in the public sector.

However, the MOH and the GHS were not very successful in introducing institutions to improve
the quality of health care, an important part of the POW-II strategies. The National Health
Insurance Council (NHIC) has since established a process for accreditation of health facilities
which is needed to receive funds from the NHIF. This includes a Council on Accreditation that
collaborates with the GHS and MOH. This appears to be a promising development, but one that
was not planned as part of the POW-II, and has yet to demonstrate its effectiveness.

6) Reforming institutional arrangements

This component was intended to complete the reorganization of the MOH and the GHS, and
implement the service agreements at all levels of the health sector. This is an area that clearly
failed during the POW-II. None of the proposed indicators in the PAD were used during the
POW-II, but in retrospect, many of the effects of the planned institutional reforms are clear.
Probably the most successful institutional reform (though still evolving) involves the introduction
and expansion of the National Health Insurance Fund, which was not conceptualized as an
institutional reform in the POW-II.

The GHS was re-launched in 2003 with renewed efforts to fully implement its legal charter to
manage the delivery of health services. Yet institutional conflict and confusion between MOH


                                                   49

and GHS consumed much of the time and energy of staff at central level till the end of the POW-
II. This conflict was manifest in poor communications, and conflict over the right to control
training institutions, contracts with service providers, and the procurement of civil works,
commodities, and technical assistance. There were several attempts to mediate differences
between the GHS and MOH, usually with the ambition of agreeing on common interests and
clarifying roles, but these were not immediately successful. Only as the POW-II ended did
relationships between the MOH and GHS begin to improve, but the effects of the conflict not
only distracted attention away from implementing the POW-II, but had longer term effects.

Donors used the confusion between agencies to bypass the accountability of SWAp over
prioritization and financing, in order to push their own agendas. As a result, more earmarked and
off-budget spending occurred, and many small projects with project units and special
relationships were created.

Service agreements were not agreed at the central level between the MOH and the GHS, and at
lower levels, the service agreements were not backed up with resources or monitoring and so
were not maintained. These service agreements became irrelevant to staff at lower levels, and
was reported to be a de-motivating factor. As discussed above, only recently did service
agreements with NGO providers come into operation, and it is not clear what effect they have had.

7) Improving the health sector financing

This area comprises the fifth strategic pillar of the POW-II, and is one where there were
considerable accomplishments throughout implementation of POW-II, with some significant
shortcomings in making health financing more equitable. The POW-II identified four main
objectives for improvement in health financing: (i) to increase GOG health expenditures; (ii) to
enhance prepayment schemes and explore health insurance provisions; (iii) to rationalize and
implement a clear exemption policy; and (iv) to allocate resources according to health needs,
poverty, and gender needs.

There were considerable accomplishments made in improving health financing during
implementation of the POW-II, with some significant shortcomings in making health financing
more equitable and efficient. As shown in Table 4, the proportion of the GOG budget allocated to
health has doubled from 2001 to 2006, reaching the Abuja target of 15% in 2005 and 2006.
However, this indicator requires careful interpretation. The total allocation of GOG expenditures
on health includes donor, IGF, and statutory funds (the total allocation therefore includes private
contributions [IGF] and non-discretionary expenditures [e.g., NHIS]). The proportion of GOG
allocations to health out of total GOG public expenditure is lower--about 13% in 2006.




                                                   50

Table 4. Sector-wide health financing indicators
          Indicators             2001      2002         2003      2004       2005       2006      Target*

 % GOG budget on health           8.7       9.3         9.1        8.2         15        18          15
 % GOG recurrent budget on       10.2      11.5         11.2      11.9       14.5        14
 health

 % GOG recurrent health on        8.1       5.9         6.9        5.4        6.6         7
 non-salary items (2+3)

 % spending on districts and               40.9         35.4      37.9         36        40
 below, items 2+3

 % Earmarked / total DP          62.3      32.8         39.5      26.3         40        61

 % IGF from pre-payment            3
 schemes

 % Recurrent funds from           1.2                                         3.1
 GOG+HF allocated to CSOs

 % Recurrent funds. on            3.6                                          8         2.2
 exemptions
 Per capita expenditure on        6.3       8.1         10.5      13.5         19        25.4
 health (USD)

Source: Annual sector review, 2006.
*        Abuja target of 15%.



Although the proportion of GOG recurrent funds allocated to health has been increasing, this has
been largely due to the wage bill and dedicated funding for personal emoluments. The proportion
of GOG recurrent health spending on non-salary items has wavered around 6%, with an increase
to 9% in 2006. Thus, the observed increase in the wage budget has not been met with a
commensurate increase in the non-wage budget. As a consequence, the GOG has continually
overspent on its capital and wage budgets, and under spent on its non-wage recurrent budgets,
compromising the delivery of health services.

The decentralization strategy for health financing has met some challenges. The proportion of
GOG expenditures at the district level has progressively declined from 2002. This decline
indicates less financing at the district level to fill funding gaps, which are often a result of project
funding. In addition, the decentralization of budgets has increased confusion in timely reporting,
auditing, and budget planning.

There is an increasing trend of donors to move to off-budget and other earmarked (project)
funding, creating funding gaps at the district level and potentially causing inefficiencies and
inconsistencies among national health programs. Figure 1 depicts this increase in donor
earmarked funding. However, it is important to note that the percentage of donor funds measured
as a percentage of all donor funds may be falsely inflated as it does not include donor
contributions to multi-donor budget support.




                                                    51

Figure 1. Ghana Health Sector Funding by Source, 2002-2006

                               Ghana health sector funding, 2002-6, by source

              6,000,000
                                                                                          NHIF
              5,000,000                                                                   Project funding
     )        4,000,000                                                                   Financial Credits
      mn(                                                                                 HIPC
         sid  3,000,000
                                                                                          IGF
            Ce2,000,000                                                                   Donor earmarked

              1,000,000                                                                   Donor HF
                                                                                          GOG
                    -
                      2002     2003              2004               2005           2006


Source: Annual sector review, 2006.

IGF from prepayment schemes has not been easy to track in the past. In 2006, for the first time, it
could have been used to distinguish those paying out of pocket from those benefiting from NHIS
membership. Exemptions funding increased from 3.6% in 2001 to 8% in 2005, partly as a result
of the maternal exemptions policy which was implemented nationally that year. In 2006,
exemptions funding dropped to 2.2%.

There is some evidence that equity in public financing health is improving slightly. An analysis of
the Ghana Living Standards Surveys from 1991-92 to 2005-06 suggests that benefit incidence of
public spending at health clinics has improved to a point where it equally distributed across
income groups (Coulombe & Wodon 2007). However, the distribution of public spending at
hospitals has changed little, and still favors richer segments of the population.

The National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) is expected to replace the exemption policy, but
full implementation of this arrangement will take time. Enrollment for those in the "exempt"
category of the NHIS has surpassed expectations, yet there are delays and inconsistencies in
obtaining full coverage. This transition may causes gaps in access to services for the poor and,
therefore, may ultimately negatively impact their health status.

The introduction of the NHIS in 2003 was a landmark achievement for Ghana, which abolished
its "cash and carry" system, though in practice it continues to exist to a varying degree in the
country. The NHIS enacted substantial financial protection policies, and created a system that
would replace the often problematic exemption policy. It also creates new opportunities to
leveraging institutional changes to improve quality and productivity in health services, which it
has initiated. During this introduction phase, there have been significant delays in reimbursement
of claims, leading to cash flow problems to providers, and contributing to ad hoc and undesirable
patient charges, undisciplined expenditure controls, and threats to the trust required for the system
to work effectively. One effect of the NHIS reimbursement is that funding is skewed toward
clinical services over preventive and public health services, and particularly to specialized
hospital services over peripheral primary care, which is not in line with the relative priorities of
the POW-II. Another effect of the introduction of NHIS is the current confusion among service




                                                   52

providers regarding exemption policies and fee for services, such as fees for maternal deliveries,
which in many places are being determined on an ad hoc basis.

There are several factors that are crucial to the health financing in the sector. Government
spending has increased, though it has largely been consumed by increases in salaries rather than
numbers of staff, and it has not been linked to performance. The Health Fund, which provided
flexible funding to BMCs, has largely disappeared, as more donors have moved to budget support
or earmarked funding. The loss of the Health Fund means that BMCs have less flexibility in how
they can spend their money, which was reported to be a valuable tool for BMC managers to
improve health service delivery. Finally, donor funds have increased as a proportion of total
funding, allowing national priority health programs to be financed by more unpredictable
financing.

8) Improving financial management systems

There was significant progress in improving financing management systems during POW-II in
terms of planning, budgeting, and financial management. Much of this happened as a result of
using the Health Fund. The Health Fund was initially established with blessing of MOFEP to
help establish new financial management systems and to enhance accountability. This may have
developed capacity at BMCs and accountability within the Health Fund, but there was no transfer
to the regular system itself. As financing of the Health Fund has been cut back, there is a reliance
on the procedures of the MOFEP. These procedures have proved more cumbersome and less
flexible than the Health Fund, this arrangement poses a significant risk to timely and full
disbursement of funds for the health sector.

District level financial management was achieved with Budget Management Centers (BMCs) that
operated service planning, non-staff budgeting, and procurement. Continuing challenges remain,
however, in decentralizing human resources budgets, timely and predictable disbursements, and
moving to resource-based budgeting. The further decentralization of BMCs from the district to
sub-district level has not really occurred in practice. Although independent auditors assess each
of the BMCs, there remains a need to assess how all funds are being spent. The proposed public
expenditure tracking survey was not conducted during the POW-II (it was conducted in 2007),
even though it was frequently cited as a needed exercise.

9) Further strengthening management

This area of work was intended to improve information systems and performance monitoring,
build capacity for contract management, operational research, and use of information technology.
There were no indicators in the POW-II or the PAD that are directly related to these activities,
and there is sparse documentation concerning these activities.

Performance contracts implemented at the Regional and District levels were used in an effort to
strengthen management capacity for several years. These contracts were largely inconsequential
since the sector lacked the ability to finance the contracts. There is some evidence of
performance indicator development, and some Regions began creating League tables to evaluate
district performance. This evaluation tool allowed for resource allocation to respond to need
and/or performance--that is, to provide necessary funds for improvement and/or reward good
performance.

Although operational research has not played a major role in the dialogue surrounding sector
performance, there has been substantial operational research conducted during the POW-II. A


                                                  53

systematic review all the operational research conducted in the Ghana health sector during the
POW-II is beyond the scope of the ICR, but there are at least three well done studies that are
particularly relevant to the POW-II strategies and merit much greater attention: (1) Nyonator et al
(2006) concerning the successes and limitations of scaling up CHPS; (2) Binka et al (2007)
concerning the effects of a trial of placing nurse and volunteers on reducing child mortality in
Navrongo; and (3) Witter & Ajei (2007) on the unintended effects of inconsistent application of
exemptions for delivery care.

10) Linking with traditional medicine

It is apparent that this was not a priority area for action during the POW-II. There were no
substantial resources allocated for traditional medicine, no sector wide indicators to monitor this
area, and the proposed indicators of the PAD were not monitored in the SWAp. There were,
however, activities to assist in the development of training in traditional medicine and clinical
trials of traditional medicines.

Conclusions

In considering an overall evaluation of the "component" outputs, it is important to realize that not
all ten areas are equally important. Indeed, they were never formulated as project components in
the POW-II, and were only treated as such by the Bank to fit the documentation requirements of
the PAD and the ICR. Some of these areas never received sufficient attention to be given sector-
wide indicators (areas 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10). Some of the initial focus areas were not carried through
as priorities after the first year, as changes in activities focus was intended to be part of the design
of the POW-II. In terms of contributing to strategic objectives and vision of the sector, there are
some areas, such as the delivery of priority services (area 1), improving financing of the sector (7),
and fostering partnerships (4), which are directly relevant. Developing human resources (2) and
reforming organizational arrangements (6) also consume large parts of the funding and effort of
the SWAp, and are important contributors to the strategic objectives and vision. In examining the
outputs in these five areas, the picture is one of qualified success in health service delivery. The
introduction of the NHIS is important both to sector financing and reforming organizational
arrangements. However, this success is mixed with some clear failures in reforming
organizational arrangements of the GHS and MOH, and although there are some successes in
increasing numbers and retaining human resources, little success in demonstrating improvements
in their productivity or effects on equity.




                                                    54

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

There was a limited economic and financial analysis of the program completed at the
time of appraisal. No NPV, economic or financial rate of return was calculated a priori
for the project, and no analyses are available to assess them as economic or financial
results. An analysis of the financing, efficiency, and equity effects of the program are
described in Sections 3.2, 3.3, and Annex 2.




                                             55

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members

            Names                       Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti   Procurement Spec.                   AFTPC
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo     Sr Procurement Spec.              EAPCO
Evelyn Awittor           Operations Officer                  AFTH2
Aissatou Chipkaou        Senior Program Assistant            AFTH2
Adriana M. Da Cunha Costa Language Program Assistant         AFTH2
Gregoria Dawson-Amoah    Program Assistant                  AFCW1
Manush A. Hristov        Counsel                            LEGAF
Karen Alexandra Hudes    Sr Counsel                         LEGKM
Bernhard H. Liese         Consultant                         AFTH2
Johan Mathisen           Consultant                          AFTP4
Mbuba Mbungu             Sr Procurement Spec.                AFTPC
Jonathan Nyamukapa       Sr Financial Management Specia     AFTFM
Alexander S. Preker      Lead Economist, Health              AFTH2
Marko Vujicic            Economist (Health)                 HDNHE
Frederick Yankey         Sr Financial Management Specia     AFTFM
David Peters             Sr. Public Health Specialist       HDNHE ICR
Jessica St. John         Junior Professional Associate      HDNHE ICR
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                        6                         41.14
  FY02                                       31                        123.79
  FY03                                       35                        176.46
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
                         Total:              72                        341.39
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                   0.00
  FY02                                                                   0.00
  FY03                                        9                         41.71
  FY04                                       39                        123.51
  FY05                                       44                        142.61
  FY06                                       26                        100.97
  FY07                                       23                         60.63
                         Total:            141                         469.43



                                         56

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

No beneficiary survey was conducted.




                                      57

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Stakeholders were interviewed during the ICR mission and their comments were
incorporated into the main text of the ICR report. No stakeholder workshop was
conducted.




                                            58

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1.0      Introduction

The report is the Ministry of Health's contribution to the Interim Country Report (ICR) prepared
the World Bank. ICR is assessed the implementation of the POW II/ HSPSP II which was
implemented from 2002 ­ 2006. The first section looks at the background to the assignment and
this is followed by the performance outcome of the programme. The next section looks at the
challenges and areas of concern and finally the conclusion.

1.1      Background

As part of the Health Sector Program Support Project (HSPSP) II, which closed on June 30, 2007,
the Bank and the Government of Ghana (GOG) are required to jointly evaluate the HSPSP-II, as
is the case for all completed lending operations.

Since the HSPSP-II project is designed to support the Ministry of Health's 2002-2006 Program of
Work II (POW-II), the evaluation is organized around the POW-II. The vision of the POW-II;
"to improve the health status of the population while reducing the geographical, socio-economic
and gender inequalities of health outcomes", was used in articulating the HSPSP-II project
development objectives. The HSPSP-II also incorporated the sector-wide strategies and
performance indicators used in the POW-II, which were reviewed and updated on annual basis
during the implementation of the POW II/HSPSP-II.

1.1.1    Objectives

The main objective of this evaluation assignment will be to assess performance in the
implementation of the recently completed Health Sector Program Support Project II. In specific
terms, this assignment seeks to find out the following:

· The extent to which the major objectives of the HSPSP-II were achieved, along with other
    significant outcomes of the POW-II and prospects for sustainability
· GOG (Borrower) performance; and
· Bank performance and that of other co-financiers of the program.

The evaluation report will also as much as possible, provide data and analyses to substantiate
assessments made, including the views of GOG and co-financiers of the POW-II on
implementation and results, highlighting lessons learnt.

1.1.2    Scope of work

Areas to include in the evaluation of the HSPSP-II include:

    1. The development impact of the HSPSP-II and the specific questions to be answered in
         this evaluation report are;
         · What is the extent to which the major objectives were achieved (or expected to be
             achieved), are they still relevant, and were they achieved efficiently?
         · What are the risks that the development objectives will not be achieved or maintained,
             and what is the potential impact if these risks materialize?



                                                  59

        · What are the important factors that played a role in the achievement of the
            development objectives?

    2. The effectiveness of GOG and the MOH in preparing, implementing, monitoring and
        evaluating the POW-II. The specific questions to answer in this regards are;
        · What is the extent to which GOG ensured quality of preparation, implementation,
            monitoring and evaluation of the POW-II?
        · How well the GOG complied with all the covenants and agreements of the
            Development Financing Agreement toward the achievement of development
            outcomes?
        · How effective were the key strategies developed and implemented during the POW-
            II? Were the organization and management arrangements effective? Could the
            constraints have been recognized and solved earlier?

    3. The appropriateness of Bank assistance
        · The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
            supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision toward
            achievement of development outcomes
        · The attention to fiduciary responsibilities and safeguards, including procurement
            reviews, disbursements, review of budget and expenditure information and audits,
            environmental impact assessments, monitoring of progress of key indicators and
            attention to results

1.1.3   Methodology

To achieve the objectives of the assignment a literature survey methodology in addition to
interviews with key stakeholders was adopted. Concerning the literature survey, several
documents specific to the assignment were reviewed (list can be found in the list of
references).This was done to find background information as well as the relevant information to
measure performance. In addition to this, the opinion of 4 key stakeholders were also sought
(health economist at the country office of the World Bank in Ghana, the country lead of health
sector development partners in Ghana and one official each from finance and procurement unit of
MOH respectively). Names of specific individuals are attached at the end of the report.

2.0     Programme Outcome

This section of the report looks at the implementation outcome of the Health Sector Programme
Support Project (HSPSP) via the POW II. Specifically the issues looked at include the
development impact of HSPSP, the effectiveness of GOG/MOH in implementing the POW II and
the appropriateness of the Bank's assistance.

2.1     Development Impact of HSPSP II

The overall development objective of the POW-II was to improve the health status of the
population while reducing the geographical, socioeconomic and gender inequalities in health
outcomes. The pursuance of this objective is based on several reasons; lessons learnt from the
implementation of the first five year medium-term health strategy; POW I, the Ghana Poverty
Reduction Strategy (GPRS) and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).




                                               60

These as well as government's own priority areas concerning health informed the strategic
objectives that were set for the POW II. The development objectives include;

      1) Increase Assess (concern was on increasing geographical, financial as well as socio-
          cultural access).
      2) Improve Quality (improving health worker performance, and improving response to
          client needs).
      3) Improve Efficiency (ensuring cost effectiveness, improving planning, management and
          administration)
      4) Improve partnership and collaborations (concerned with improving partnership with
          households and community, private and public sector providers, ministries, departments
          and agencies as well as expanding relations with development partners)
      5) Improve financing for the health sector (focus on reducing budgetary burden of
          healthcare for the poor and increase public expenditure on the poor and vulnerable).

      Various strategies were pursued in the course of implementation to achieve programme
      targets of the development objectives of the POWW II. The issues discussed in this section
      focuses on the extent of achievement of the development objectives of the POW II, risk that
      could other wise have imposed some limitations on the achievement of the development
      objectives as well as the factors that engineered the current level of success.

2.1.1    Extent of Achievement of development objectives

Though baseline indicators and targets existed in the Project Assessment Document (PAD), that
was as at 2001 and so in determining the extent of achievement, data from the report of the
independent reviewers as at 2006 was used. The rational being that, it gives data that coincide
with the programme period (2002 ­ 2006). Data used for the analysis of the development impact
of HSPSP II is contained in table 1 in annex 1. The table analyses performance by looking at the
level of change and the extent of achievement of the target set for the five broad objectives of the
HSPSP II; (Health status, Access, Quality, Efficiency, Partnership and Financing). It is also
important to state that these are basically the same as the development objectives that were
outlined in the POW II and supported by the World Bank through HSPSP II.

Health Status
As part of the objectives of the POW II/HSPSP II was the improvement of health status of the
Ghanaian population. To measure improvements, four development indicators were defined;
infant, under-five and maternal mortality as well as under-five that are malnourished. From the
data:

· Infant and under-five mortality deteriorated below the baseline by 25% and 2.7% respectively
    over the programme period.
· Under-five who are malnourished (U-5MC) however improved by 28% over the baseline and
    exceeded the programme target by 40%.
· Unfortunately data is currently not available for maternal mortality to be able to measure
    performance.

Access to Healthcare
Another objective of POW II/HSPSP II was improvements in access to healthcare. The PAD
contains several indicators for tracking improvement in access to healthcare; population to doctor
ratio (PDR), population to nurse ratio (PNR), out-patient visit per capita (OVC) and number of
specialist outreach carried out (NSC).


                                                  61

In terms of performance, all the indicators with the exception of hospital admission rate
(deterioration of 6.6% below baseline) recorded positive changes based on base line data.
Amongst the five, the most significant was the doctor patient ratio that recorded about 41.4%
improvement over the baseline with the programme target being exceeded by 327%. Though the
other indicators recorded improvement, they were all 50% or less of the programme target.

Quality Improvements
Amongst the development objectives of POW II/HSPSP II was improvement in the quality of
service. The indicators for measuring quality improvements include; case fatality rate of malaria
for under-five (UCFRM), Availability of tracer drugs (ATD) and maternal audits to maternal
deaths (MAMD).

In all, the indicators recorded improvements with the exception of availability of tracer drugs
(13% below the baseline). The data suggest that in spite of the improvements in the other two
indicators, MOH could not meet the programme target. The output constituted 59%, 94%, of the
programme target for UCFRM and MAMD respectively.


Efficiency Improvements
Another critical area that the POW II sought to address is the issue of efficiency. To measure
efficiency improvements some indicators were selected; (HIV/AIDS prevalence rate, TB cure rate,
Number of guinea worm cases, ANC coverage, PNC coverage, Supervised deliveries, EPI
coverage; that is DPT3 and measles coverage, Bed occupancy rate, Family planning acceptors
and AFP non polio rate. TB cure rate exceeded the programme target by 65% with two of the
indicators deteriorating below the baseline (ANC coverage, 5.6% and Bed occupancy, 22%). The
rest all recorded improvement from the base but unable to achieve the programme target. With
the exception of HIV/AIDS prevalence which achieved 62% of the target the rest were all below
46% of the programme target.

Partnerships
The POW II also sought to stimulate the level of partnerships especially between the public and
private health sector. This was expected to be measured by one indicator, which is the percentage
of re-current budget of GOG and health fund used by the private sector, NGOs CSOs and MDAs.
Unfortunately, data does not exist currently to be able to measure this indicator

Financing
The fifth and final objective of POW II was aimed at improving financing to the sector by
focusing on reducing budgetary burden of healthcare for the poor and increase public expenditure
on the poor and vulnerable. To measure the performance of MOH in achieving this objective, six
indicators were put forth with three (% of GOG budget spent on health, % of GOG re-current
budget spent on health and % of donor funds earmarked) being discussed in this report because
data is not available for the remaining three. All the three indicators recorded improvements over
the baseline with the most significant being % of GOG budget spent on health (93.5% increase
over the baseline and exceeding programme target by 53%). The remaining two, though exceeded
the baseline (% of GOG re-current budget spent on health, 21.7% and % of donor funds
earmarked, 2.1%), they were still below the programme target by 29% and 94% respectively.

Overall Programme Outcome
The figures contained in the analysis suggest that MOH/GOG has performed above average in-
terms of the outputs recorded for the POW II/HSPSP II. Responses from stakeholders during the


                                                62

interview session, also creates the impression that performance is satisfactory. For instance,
representatives of two DPs scored the performance of MOH/GOG in the implementation of the
POWII/HSPSP II at 3.5 on a scale of 1 to 5 with one being the lowest and five being the highest.

Not withstanding the above, it is also important that the current figures are interpreted with
caution. This is because the Ministry is still confronted with numerous challenges in dealing with
a couple of the development objectives of POW II. For instances technical presentations at the
just ended annual MOH summit revealed serious issues that border on quality of service at the
institutional level. Additionally, the issue of productivity and efficiency is another, which the
interview respondent perceived to be very low in the health sector.

It may be premature to use these perceptions to invalidate the picture painted by the indicators.
Probably, a higher-level analytical work may be needed to establish very reliable levels of
productivity and efficiency in the sector. Again, it appears that some of the indicators were
computed from facility level data with it attendant errors and biases and thus could be confusing.
Perhaps the 2008 demographic and health survey may give a better picture. Notwithstanding the
caution raised, the general thinking among stakeholders is that MOH/GOG performed creditably
in executing the POW II.

 2.1.2 Programme Risk
As part of its programme appraisal practice, the World Bank carried out a pre-implementation
appraisal and identified about 10 risk factors which they believed at the time posed substantial
                                3

risk to the achievement of the development objectives of the POW II. With the benefit of
hindsight, one cannot but agree with those who did the appraisal that the issues raised could
easily constrain the achievement of the development objectives of the POW II.

However, MOH/GOG may have done it work well such that the issues raised could not pose the
kind of risk that was anticipated. For instance, the first two risks identified included government
commitment and support to the health sector. In the analysis section, it is realised that
government demonstrated tremendous commitment to the sector by even exceeding the target set
in-terms of GOG spending to health.

Other areas raised include financial and procurement management, the brain drain and staff
attrition and the sector re-organisation. Interview responses suggest that in the area of financial
and procurement management programmes were introduced to build the relevant capacity. The
analysis also shows that MOH/GOG exceeded it target for the population to doctor ratio,
suggesting that significant work was done in this area to reduce the brain drain phenomenon.
Perhaps the only area some respondent anecdotally believed constituted a risk and possibly
slowed the implementation process was the MOH/GHS split.

2.1.3    Programme Success Factors

Respondents of the interview as well as stakeholders in the health sector in general are unanimous
in their conviction that the singular most crucial success factor to the implementation of the POW
II is the implementation of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). To them evidence
exist that the implementation of NHIS has increased access and that coverage for the poor has



3 In the project appraisal document page 36 and 37



                                                 63

improved. Not withstanding the above, the analysis on the management of the anticipated risk
also seem to suggest that, GOG's commitment in terms of resource allocation to the sector, the
commitment of both MOH and DPs to improve on the financial and procurement management of
the sector. Also, strategies to address the brain drain and related human resources crisis, might
have all worked together to reduce the impact of risk factors identified and therefore made way
for a greater level of success. However, it has also increased the wage bill beyond what is
affordable under the budget.

It is also important to note that the influence of the donor group at the MDBS forum at the
national level could also be responsible for the level of success since at that level they are able to
engage the government on allocation of resources to the health sector. Finally, there is also the
thinking that the alignment of MOH planning process with the government's budget cycle, as
well as consultation with civil society to guide the policy development process, from a curative to
preventive approach may have also contributed immensely to the current level of success.

2.2      Effectiveness of GOG/MOH in POW II Implementation

This section looks at the effectiveness of GOG/MOH in the preparation of the POW II, its
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. The specific questions answered in this section
includes the quality of work done by GOG/MOH with respect to the preparation implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the POW II, the level of compliance with covenant agreements and
finally the effectiveness of key strategies pursued as well as the CMA.

2.2.1    Quality of the POW II implementation process

The MOH is responsible for the preparation of the 5YPOW as well as the Annual Programs of
Work (APOW). Preparation is done through broad stakeholder consultation to solicit inputs from
agencies of the MOH, DPs CSOs, NGOs etc. Additionally the annual health summit which has
broad stakeholder representation is also used as a forum to thoroughly discuss the POW before
finalization. It is also said that in recent times the parliamentary sub-committee on health is also
engaged in the process by meeting MOH to discuss the health budget.

Implementation of the POW is the responsibility of the different agencies of MOH in addition to
the private sector. The effectiveness of these bodies in implementing the POW can in general be
viewed from the performance of GOG/MOH as depicted by the indicators. The results are clear
that good improvements have been made, notwithstanding the fact that the sector still faces some
challenges.

In the area of monitoring and evaluation MOH carries out it own monitoring as well as joint
monitoring exercises with DPs. Additionally the performance of MOH is reviewed every year by
the MOH and independent external reviewers, whose reports are made public and also discussed
by MOH and DPs and other stakeholders in different fora especially the health summit. There is
also the belief among some of the respondents that, the quality of plans, it implementation and
monitoring was initially affected by the MOH/GHS split. However, the current thinking is that
the situation has improved.

2.2.2    Compliance with agreements

The covenants and agreements relating to development financing provided to GOG/MOH from
the Bank and other Partners include MOH maintaining financial management systems that are
acceptable, preparing budgets and financial reports on a timely basis. Not much information was


                                                   64

found with this issue but at least available information suggests that GOG/MOH has duly
discharged it obligations.

2.2.3   Effectiveness of key strategies and CMA

To achieve it development objectives, the POW II pursued different set of strategies. As to
whether these strategies have been effective or not, can best be answered by the output indicators
recorded. The table in annex 1 shows that about 26 indicators were measured. On rate of
effectiveness of GOG/MOH in executing the POW II, 4 (% of U-5 malnourished, Population to
doctor ratio, TB cure rate and % of GOG budget spent on health) out of the 26 indicators had
their targets exceeded, 17 recorded improvement over the baseline without achieving the set
target with 7 of them deteriorating below the baseline.

The details of the individual indicators can be checked from the table. It is important to note that
this can only be a preliminary means of assessing the effectiveness of GOG/MOH. It will
however be appropriate that a more detailed analytical work is done to ascertain the real level of
effectiveness.

Another crucial area very relevant to the effectiveness assessment is the implementation of the
management arrangement that accompanied the POW II (Common Management Arrangement,
CMA). The performance of GOG/MOH in implementing or adhering to the issues in the CMA
has been reviewed and the findings contained in the CMA review report as well as the report of
the external review team. In both reports, the common issues that were flagged for attention
include;

1. Role difficulties between MOH and some of it agencies especially the GHS, which is
    believed to be the result of the poor management of the transition process (i.e. resulting from
    the split between the MOH and GHS)

2. The capacity of MOH to perform it supervisory duties in respect of it agencies;
             a. Coordinating the work of the various agencies
             b. Performance monitoring and evaluation. In this regard one of the issues raised in
                 both reports is the inability of MOH to sign performance agreements with the
                 agencies as a basis for evaluating their performance

3. Other areas of challenge in addition to the above raised by the CMA review report boarders
    on poor coordination of earmark funds and delays in the preparation and submission of
    financial reports at all levels.

On the whole the review team of the CMA was of the view that not withstanding the above
challenges the management arrangements that accompanied the POW II was implemented by the
MOH. As to whether the challenges observed above, could have been recognized earlier and
resolved is a fairly difficult question to answer.

The last two issues are those that MOH has been dealing with for a long time and therefore may
seem normal to expect the Ministry to excel in them. However the first issue; management of the
transition process (which seem to be mentioned in several reports) is fairly a difficult one.
Evidence in many of the reports that capture this issue seem to suggest that the issue of role
definition is quite clear on "paper", however the difficulty has been with the way the actors have
interpreted what is written. Perhaps one may not be wrong to admit that all the challenges have
served as a good learning experience for the Ministry and it agencies, of course this being the first


                                                  65

time in Ghana. That none of the actors in "the drama" regret it because it has opened up new
opportunities to cooperate and in commitment push the agenda of the sector forward.

2.3      The Appropriateness of Bank Assistance
The bank has had a long standing relationship with GOG/MOH in-terms of it assistance to the
sector both financial and technical. In this part of the report, the importance of the assistance
offered GOG/MOH in implementing POW II as well as the commitment of the bank in honoring
it fiduciary responsibility is assessed.

2.3.1    The importance of Bank's assistance
Evidence from the financial statement of MOH indicate that over the five year period of the
implementation of the POW II, the cedi equivalent of about US$ 1.5 billion was spent by MOH.
Out of this amount, the cedi equivalent of about US$ 163.8 million was contributed by the Bank
(i.e. through the World Bank and IDA) and represents about 10.7% of overall spending by MOH
for the period. The document also indicate that over the same period, the cedi equivalent of about
US$ 419.8 million was contributed by all the donors out of which the World Bank contributed
about US$ 163.8 million representing 39% of donor contributions.

From an initial contribution of about US$ 7.3 million in 2002, the contributions of the bank rose
to the cedi equivalent of about US$ 73.9 million in 2005 and dropped to a negligible figure in
2006 (i.e. Bank's funds sent through MDBS). In terms of actual funds contributed, the figures are
clear that the contributions from the Bank were quite substantial and in no doubt assisted
GOG/MOH in implementing the POW II.

Aside the funds provided, the evidence gathered also indicate that the bank provided technical
assistance to GOG/MOH in several areas (policy formulation, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation) during the implementation of POW II.

One area that staff of MOH interviewed believes could be a reference point for the Bank's
assistance to the sector is in the area of procurement. The Bank's assistance has been very key in
building and continuously strengthening the capacity of the procurement unit to carry out it
functions in the implementation of the POW II. The evidence gathered suggests that the bank was
very instrumental in making funds available for the procurement of commodities to support the
implementation of the POW II. Additionally the Bank also assisted the Ministry to establish a
procurement unit, put in place the right structure and systems, trained staff at all levels and
assisted in the development of a procurement manual which became the official document for
procurement in the health sector. To some of them, the procurement capacity within the MOH
constituted the pilot and the basis for the drafting of the national procurement law which is
currently in force.

2.3.2    Fiduciary responsibility
As part of the HSPSP II/POW II the Bank had a fiduciary responsibility together with other
donors for ensuring that safeguard measures are put in place to reduce risk of poor
implementation outcomes through procurement review, disbursements, review of budgets and
expenditure information, audits, environmental impact assessments, progress monitoring of key
indicators and attention to results. For the purpose of this report the performance of the bank in
fulfilling it responsibility is structured financial, procurement and programme performance.

In the area PFM, the bank's work was more in the review of budget out-turns and ensuring that
financial and audit reports are submitted on time. Due to the on-going financial management
reforms most of the things done by the finance unit to implement the POW II was not necessarily


                                                    66

as a result of donor demand but rather a product of improvements in national level financial
management procedures. This is not however to suggest that the efforts of DPs was irrelevant or
not important in this direction. The Bank is also said to have assisted in the procurement of
vehicles to support the routine monitoring exercise of the finance unit.

In the area of procurement, the Bank's responsibility was more in the area of building the
procurement capacity of MOH as well as monitoring procurement outcomes. The evidence above
indicates that the Bank discharged this responsibility especially in the area of capacity building.

With programme performance the Bank's responsibility together with other donors in terms of
monitoring performance of GOG/MOH was also fulfilled to a large extent. This was done
through inputs made by them through participation in meetings, reviews, joint donor monitoring
programmes and direct technical assistance to the Ministry.

3.0     Challenges of the Implementation Process

In spite of the relative success of the implementation of POW II/HSPSP II challenges still exist
that are of great concern to some stakeholders. The thinking is that, addressing these challenges
will go a long way to improve the performance of the sector and perhaps outcomes in general.

One of the issues that seem to cut across is the issue of productivity in the sector. There seem to
be the suggestion that current levels of outputs do not match the level of resources injected into
the sector, particularly in the light of recent increases in salaries. There is therefore the need for
analytical work to establish the current levels of productivity and efficiency in the sector and map
out the right strategies to enhance them.

There is also the concern that currently; policy planning discussions are more centered on the
budget, reducing discussions more to budget issues than to real planning and development issues.
There is also the thinking that the current review process lacks analytical rigor and could be taken
a step further by incorporating more rigorous analytical work in the review and preparation of
documents such as the annual plans.

There is also the concern that inconsistencies have existed between the trend of resource
allocation and policy objectives of the ministry and therefore the need to take a critical look at
this phenomenon.

It was also suggested that the current dialogue between the Ministry and DPs could be taken
another step forward by ensuring a more open process that is accommodating to the interest of all
stakeholders. The urge is that both parties must continue to work together to deepen the dialogue
and make it more open as possible.

4.0     Conclusion
The implementation of the POW II/HSPSP II has been an insightful experience to the GOG/MOH.
If the views of the respondents and the output indicators recorded at the end of the programme
period are any thing to go by, then one may not be wrong in concluding that GOG/MOH crossed
the pass mark and therefore needs to be encouraged.

However, it will be responsible to admit that in spite of the relative success, the Ministry is still
faced with great challenges. In addition to those enumerated above, gaps still exist (i.e. between
the rich and the poor, the south and the north etc) and therefore making the objectives of POW
II/HSPSP II still relevant. A lot more is expected to be done if the sector is supposed to register


                                                  67

the desired quantum leaps. Additionally it will also be important that more sustainable strategies
are investigated into and used for the implementation of development programmes. Interestingly,
respondents are unanimous in their optimism that the sector will continue to improve with the
right levels of commitment from all stakeholders and continuous good leadership.




                                               68

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No comments were received from cofinanciers or other partners, though the ICR was
circulated and partners were encouraged to submit comments.




                                           69

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Aduonum-Darko, L., A. Nkrumah, P. Nomo. 2006. Review of the Common Management
Arrangements for the Implementation of the Health Sector Five Year Programme of Work 2002 ­
2006. Draft.

Benning, Anang, and Partners. 2004. Ghana Health Sector Support Program Final Procurement
Audit Report, September, Accra, Ghana. Draft.

Benning, Anang, and Partners. 2007. Ghana Health Sector Support Program Final Procurement
Audit Report, September, Accra, Ghana. Draft.

Binak F.N., A.A. Bawah, J.F. Phillips, A. Hodgson, M. Adjuik, B. MacLeod. 2007. Rapid
achievement of the child survival millennium development goal: evidence from the Navrongo
experiment in Northern Ghana. Tropical Medicine & International Health 12 (5): 578-583.

Campbell, S. M. et al. 2000. Defining quality of care. Soc. Sci. Med.
11: 1611-1625.

Christian Health Association of Ghana (CHAG). 2006. Annual Report: Witnessing Christ in the
Healing Ministry II, June 2005 ­ May 2006, Accra, Ghana.

Coulombe H., Q. Wodon. 2007. Poverty, Livelihoods, and Access to Basic Services in Ghana: An
Overview. The World Bank, unpublished document, April 23, Washington, DC.

DANIDA. 2006. Semi-Annual Report. Health Sector Support Office, June, Accra, Ghana.

Development Partners. 2004. Health Partners Memorandum Joint Response to the 2003 Health
Sector Review, May 27, Accra, Ghana.

Development Partners. 2005. Health Partners Memorandum Joint Response to the 2004 Health
Sector Review, April 21, Accra, Ghana.

Ernst & Young/The Auditor General. 2004. Management Letter and Audited Financial
Statements, December 31, Minister of Health, Accra, Ghana.

Ernst & Young/The Auditor General. 2005. Management Letter and Audited Financial
Statements, December 31, Minister of Health, Accra, Ghana.

External Review Team. 2003. Report of the External Review Team on the Ministry of Health
Programme of Work 2002, May, Accra, Ghana.

External Review Team. 2004. Report of the External Review Team on the Ministry of Health
Programme of Work 2003, May, Accra, Ghana.

External Review Team. 2005. Report of the External Review Team on the Ministry of Health
Programme of Work 2004, April, Accra, Ghana.




                                               70

External Review Team. 2006. Report of the External Review Team on the Ministry of Health
Programme of Work 2005, March, Accra, Ghana.

External Review Team. 2006. Review of the Exemption Policy: A Report of the Annual Health
Sector Review 2005, March, Accra, Ghana.

External Review Team. 2007. Report of the External Review Team on the Ministry of Health
Programme of Work 2006, June, Accra, Ghana.

Fedelino, A. G. Schwartz, and M. Verhoeven. 2006. Aid Scaling Up: Do Wage Bill Ceilings
Stand in the Way? IMF Working Paper, WP/06/106, International Monetary Fund, Washington,
DC.

Filmer, D. & L. Pritchett. 2001. Estimating wealth effects without expenditure data--or tears: an
application to educational enrollments in states of India. Demography, 38, 115-32

Ghana Health Service. 2007. Volta Regional Health Directorate 2006 Performance Review
Report, Volta, Ghana.

Johnson, K., S. Rutstein, P. Govindasamy. 2005. The Stall in Mortality Decline in Ghana: Further
Analysis of Demographic and Health Surveys Data. Calverton, Maryland: ORC Macro.

Ministry of Health. 2001. Partnerships for Health: Bridging the Inequalities Gap. The Second
Health Sector Five Year Programme of Work: 2002-2006. SWAp II. Government of the Republic
of Ghana.

Ministry of Health, Republic of Ghana. 2001. A Bulletin of Health Information: Information for
Action, Vol. 1(1).

Ministry of Health, Republic of Ghana. 2002. The Ghana Health Sector Programme of Work.

Ministry of Health, Republic of Ghana. 2002. A Bulletin of Health Information: Information for
Action, Vol. 1(2&3).

Ministry of Health, Republic of Ghana. 2003. The Ghana Health Sector Programme of Work.

Ministry of Health, Republic of Ghana. 2004. The Ghana Health Sector Programme of Work.

Ministry of Health, Republic of Ghana. 2005. The Ghana Health Sector Programme of Work.

Ministry of Health, Republic of Ghana. 2006. The Ghana Health Sector Programme of Work.

Ministry of Health, Republic of Ghana. 2007. The Ghana Health Sector Programme of Work.

Ministry of Health and Development Partners. 2002-2007. Aide Memoires.

Ministry of Health and DESERV ­ JM Associates. 2006. Republic of Ghana Health Sector 2002-
2006 Capital Investment Programme Review, Accra, Ghana.




                                                 71

Morrison & Associates. 2006. The Republic of Ghana Health Sector 2002-2006 Capital
Investment Pgoramme Review (Financial Analysis).

Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey. 2007. Monitoring the Situation of Children and Women:
Findings from the Ghana Multiple Cluster Survey 2006, Preliminary Report, February.

Nyonator F.K., J.K. Awoonor-Williams, J.F. Phillips, T.C. Jones. 2005. The Ghana Community-
based Health Planning and Services Initiative for scaling up service delivery innovation. Health
Policy Planning 20(1) 25-34.

Peters, D.H., A. Garg, G. Bloom, D.G. Walker, W.R. Brieger, M.H. Rahman. 2007. Poverty and
Access to Health Care in Developing Countries. Annals of the New York Academy of Science (in
press).

Republic of Ghana. 2002. Financial Report, December 31, Ministry of Health.

Republic of Ghana. 2003. HIV Sentinel Survey 2002 Report. Accra, Ghana: Ghana Health
Service.

Republic of Ghana. 2004. Financial Report, December 31, Ministry of Health.

Republic of Ghana. 2004. HIV Sentinel Survey 2003 Report. Accra, Ghana: Ghana Health
Service.

Republic of Ghana. 2005. HIV Sentinel Survey 2004 Report. Accra, Ghana: Ghana Health
Service.

Republic of Ghana. 2006. Financial Report, December 31, Ministry of Health.

Republic of Ghana. 2006. HIV Sentinel Survey 2005 Report. Accra, Ghana: Ghana Health
Service.

Republic of Ghana. 2007. Financial Report, December 31, Ministry of Health.

Republic of Ghana. 2007. HIV Sentinel Survey 2006 Report. Accra, Ghana: Ghana Health
Service.

Republic of Ghana. 2007. Ho Municipal Mutual Health Insurance Scheme, Ho, Ghana.

UNICEF. 2004. Report of the Review of the Accelerated Child Survival and Development
Programme in the Upper East Region of Ghana, November 2004, Accra, Ghana.

Vujicic M., E. Addai, S. Bosomprah. 2006. Methodology for Measuring the Productivity of the
Health Workforce in Ghana. Draft unpublished document, December 6, 2006.

Witter S. & S. Adjei. 2007. Start-stop funding, its causes and consequences: a case study of the
delivery exemptions policy in Ghana. Int J Health Planning Management. 22: 133-143.

World Bank. Implementation Status Reports, 2002 ­ 2007.




                                                72

World Bank. 2003. Project Appraisal Document for a Health Sector Program Support Project II,
P073649. Washington, DC.

World Bank. 2003. Development Financing Agreement for the Second Health Sector Program
Support Project between Republic of Ghana and International Development Association.

World Bank. 2006. Ghana 2006 External Review of Public Financial Management, Volumes I &
II. Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank. 2006. Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines, OPCS,
unpublished document, August, Washington, DC.

World Bank. 2007. Project Appraisal Document for a Nutrition and Malaria Control for Child
Survival Project, P105092, Washington, DC.

World Bank. 2007. Project Appraisal Document for a Health Insurance Project, P101852,
Washington, DC

World Bank. 2007. Project Performance Assessment Report for Ghana: Second Health and
Population Project and Health Sector Support Project.




                                              73


Annex 10. Sector-wide Indicator Comparison Table

                PAD                         POW-II (2002-2006)                     POW-2006                     Review of POW-2006
Infant mortality rate reduced from   IMR per 1,000 reduced to 50        IMR per 1,000 reduced to 50        IMR per 1,000 reduced to 50
57 to 50 per 1000 live births with
significant reduction in disparities
across regions
U5 mortality rate reduced from       U5M per 1000 reduced to 95         U5M per 1000 reduced to 95         U5M per 1000 reduced to 95
108 to 95 live births with
significant reduction of disparities
across regions
Maternal mortality is reduced from   MMR per 100,000 reduced to 150     MMR per 100,000 reduced to 150     MMR per 100,000 reduced to 150
240 to 150 per 100,000 live births
with significant reduction of
disparities across regions
                                                                        U5 who are malnourished to 20%     U5 who are malnourished to 20%
Life expectancy at birth at least    Life expectancy at birth at least
maintained at 58 years               maintained at 58 years
Per capital health expenditure on                                                                          Per capita spending on health
health is increased up to about                                                                            (US$)
US$12 in 2006 and public
expenditure benefit more to the
poor
HIV prevalence reduced to 2.6%       HIV prevalence reduced to 3%       HIV prevalence reduced to 2.6%     HIV prevalence reduced to 2.6%
TB cure rate increased from 43%      TB cure rate                       TB cure rate increased to 65%      TB cure rate increased to 65%
to 60%
                                     TB case detection rate
Use of bednets increased from        % use of ITNs for <5 and pregnant
10% to 56%                           women increased to 55%
Antenatal coverage increased         Antenatal coverage increased       Antenatal coverage increased to    Antenatal coverage increased to
from 47% to 70%                      from 47% to 70%                    99%                                99%
                                                                        Prenatal coverage increased to     Prenatal coverage increased to
                                                                        65%                                65%
Supervised deliveries increased      Supervised deliveries increased    Supervised deliveries increased to Supervised deliveries increased to
from 44% to 50%                      from 44% to 50%                    60%                                60%
                                                                        50% maternal deaths audited        50% maternal deaths audited
Guinea worm disease eradicated       Guinea worm disease eradicated     Guinea worm disease eradicated     Guinea worm disease eradicated



                                                                       75

                PAD                        POW-II (2002-2006)                    POW-2006                    Review of POW-2006
DPT3 and measles coverage                                             EPI coverage for Penta3 85%; EPI EPI coverage for Penta3 85%; EPI
raised and maintained at 80% or                                       coverage for measles 90%         coverage for measles 90%
more
Polio free certification obtained                                     AFP non polio rate less than 1%  AFP non polio rate less than 1%
% of FP acceptors raised from                                         % of FP acceptors raised to 40%  % of FP acceptors raised to 40%
14% to 40%
U5 malaria case fatality rate      U5 malaria case fatality rate      U5 malaria case fatality rate    U5 malaria case fatality rate
reduced                                                               reduced to 1%                    reduced to 1%
Hospital admission rates                                              Hospital admission rates per     Hospital admission rates per
                                                                      1,000                            1,000
                                                                      Outpatient visits per capita     Outpatient visits per capita
                                                                      Bed occupancy rates are 80%      Bed occupancy rates are 80%
                                                                      No. of specialized community     No. of specialized community
                                                                      outreach services carried out    outreach services carried out
80% tracer drugs available         80% tracer drugs available         95% tracer drugs available       95% tracer drugs available
                                   80% drugs purchased from CMS
                                   85% transactions meeting agreed
                                   standards
                                   % of clinical, pharmaceutical, and
                                   laboratory practice meeting
                                   international quality standards
                                   raised from 66% to 80%

                                   New incentives and performance
                                   management systems in place;
                                   80% staff appraised
                                   HR budgets and management
                                   decentralized; 100 of BMCs
                                   70% nurses/med assist/doctors      doctor to population ratios by   doctor to population ratios by
                                   posts filled by category and by    regions                          regions
                                   regions
                                                                      nurse to population ratios by    nurse to population ratios by
                                                                      regions                          regions
                                   80% graduating at first sitting
50% increase in intake in medical  50% increase in intake in medical
and nursing schools                and nursing schools
80% of staff receive in-service    80% of staff receive in-service
training                           training


                                                                     76

                PAD                         POW-II (2002-2006)                POW-2006    Review of POW-2006
70% of core staff continuing work   70% of core staff continuing work
in Ghana 3 years after graduation   in Ghana 3 years after graduation
interregional and interdistrict     35% of health professionals with
distribution of staff improved      short-term placements to the
                                    north/deprived areas
                                    40% change in interregional and
                                    inter-district distribution of key
                                    staff in favor of deprived regions
                                    and districts
                                    40% change in intra-district
                                    rural/urban distribution in favor of
                                    rural areas
Community-based health centers      40% of new facilities developed in
established in deprived areas.      4 deprived areas
40% of all new facilities developed
in 4 deprived regions.

Mapping of physical assets          30% of district health facilities
completed and infrastructure        rehabilitated
investment-diversification plan
developed to reduce duplication

                                    Value of new investments are
                                    more than 3% of current level
                                    40% of hospital facilities brought
                                    in line with strategy
Average transport fleet age         Average transport fleet age
reduced to 5 years                  reduced to 5 years
                                    70% of vehicles available at lower
                                    levels
                                    80% of vehicles are serviceable
                                    85% of functioning equipment at
                                    value
70% of BMCs using private sector    70% of BMCs using private sector
maintenance                         maintenance
                                    80% households have improved
                                    health and safety knowledge; 50%
                                    households have improved health
                                    and safety practices


                                                                        77

               PAD                       POW-II (2002-2006)                           POW-2006                    Review of POW-2006
                                  40% districts in each region are
                                  implementing District Health Plans
                                  (DHPs)
                                  80% households have knowledge
                                  of consumer rights and
                                  responsibilities
                                  80% of CHPS districts are               No. of functional CHPS zones      No. of functional CHPS zones
                                  operational                             (target 400)                      (target 400)
                                  4 funded community initiatives
                                  funded in each district


Ombudsman's office established    Ombudsman's office established
and 80% of complaints handled     and 80% of complaints handled
successfully                      successfully; 60% patient
                                  satisfaction level
The reorganization of public
agencies (MOH/GHS split)
completed.
MOU signed with mission sector    All mission institutions and 20% of
and converted into service        other NGOs have MOUs and
agreements and contracts          agreements signed
50% of non-essential services     50% of non-essential services
contracted out                    contracted out
0.5% of the health budget         0.5% of the health budget
allocated to the innovation fund  allocated to the innovation fund
% of Program recurrent funds      2% of Program recurrent funds           Recurrent budget from GOG and     Recurrent budget from GOG and
used by private sector, NGOs,     used by private sector, NGOs,           health fund allocated to private  health fund allocated to private
CSOs, and other MDAs              CSOs, and other MDAs                    sector, CSOs, NGOs, and other     sector, CSOs, NGOs, and other
                                                                          MDAs (target 2%)                  MDAs (target 2%)
                                  10% of facilities at district level are
                                  private facilities
% of GOG budget spent on health                                           % of GOG budget spent on health   % of GOG budget spent on health
                                                                          (target 15%)                      (target 15%)
% of GOG recurrent budget spent                                           % of GOG recurrent budget spent   % of GOG recurrent budget spent
on health                                                                 on health (target 15%)            on health (target 15%)
% of pooled donor funds to total                                          % donor funds earmarked (target   % donor funds earmarked (target
donor funds (per partner)                                                 40%)                              40%)



                                                                         78

               PAD                  POW-II (2002-2006)              POW-2006                    Review of POW-2006
% of IGF coming from pre-                                % IGF from pre-payment and       % IGF from pre-payment and
payment and community                                    community insurance schemes      community insurance schemes
insurance scheme                                         (target 20%)                     (target 20%)
% of capital and recurrent                               proportion of non-wage recurrent proportion of non-wage recurrent
expenditure by level, region and                         budget spent at district level   budget spent at district level
by source                                                (target 43%)                     (target 43%)
total amount spent on exemption                          % Recurrent budget spent on      % Recurrent budget spent on
by exemption category                                    exemptions (target 8%)           exemptions (target 8%)
National agenda for herbal and
alternative medicine developed
Guidelines for quality assurance
developed and disseminated
6000 Traditional and alternative
medicine practitioners trained




                                                        79

Annex 11. Sector-wide Indicators 1998 ­ 2006
Indicator                                               1998    1999      2000   2001     2002      2003        2004        2005       2006     Targets
Infant Mortality Rate per 1,000 live births               61                       57                 64                                 71        50
Under five mortality Rate per 1,000 live births          110                                          111                                          95
Maternal Mortality Ratio per 100,000 live births                                  214                                       560                    150
Under five who are malnourished4                        24.9                                         22.1                               17.8       20
HIV sero-prevalence (%)                                                           2.9      3.4        3.6        3.1         2.7         2.9       2.6
% EPI coverage (DPT3/Penta3)                                                      76.3     78.0      76.0       75.0        85.0        84.2       80
% EPI coverage (measles)                                 67.4   71.0      81.5    82.4     83.7      79.0       78.0        83.0        85.1       80
AFP non polio rate (%)                                                            2.8      1.9        1.3        1.5        1.68        1.55       >1
Guinea worm cases                                                                4733     5545      8290        7275        3992       2,968        0
% Family planning acceptors                              14.5   13.7      11.6    24.9     21.0      22.6       24.3        22.6        26.8       40
% Antenatal coverage                                     94.7   92.2      96.5    98.4     93.7      91.2       89.2        88.7        88.4       70
% Prenatal coverage                                      37.4   43.1      46.3    52.5     53.6       55        53.3        52.7        55.9       65
% Supervised deliveries                                  40.8   43.5      50.2    50.4     32.0      55.0       53.4        54.1        44.5       60*
% Maternal deaths audited                                                         10.0     84.0      85.0       55.9        75.6         52        50
Outpatient per capita                                    0.38    0.4      0.45    0.49     0.49       0.5       0.52        0.53        0.52       0.6
Hospital admission rates per 1000 population             27.5   27.9      32.1    34.9     35.3       36        34.5        36.5        32.6       40
Bed occupancy rates (%)                                  78.1   76.5      58.9    61.6     65.5      64.1       62.7        58.4        50.9       80
Under five malaria case fatality rate (%)                                         1.7      3.7        3.6        2.7         2.4         2.7       n/a
Tuberculosis Cure Rates (%)                                                       44.9     53.8      63.9       65.0        67.6         ..        60
Number of specialized outreach services                                           141      158       175         158        164         170        200
% Tracer drug availability                                       79.0     75.0    70.0     85.0      85.0        87.5       84.7        73.8       80
Doctor to population ratio                                                      1:20,036 1:18,274 1:16,759    1:17,615    1:10,380   1:10,700   1:16,500
Nurse to population ratio                                                       1:1,728  1:1,675   1:1,649     1:1,510     1:1,508    1:1,587    1:1,500
No. of functional CHPS zones                                                      19       39         55         84         186         270        400
% GOG budget spent on health                             8.5     8.4              8.7      9.3        9.1        8.2        15.0        18.0       15
% GOG recurrent budget spent on health                                            10.2     11.5      11.2       11.9        14.5        14.0       15
% GOG recurrent health on non-salary (items 2+3)                                  8.1      5.9        6.9        5.4         6.6         7.0
% GOG spending on districts and below (items 2+3)        50      42                        40.9      35.4       37.9        36.0        40.0       43




4Malnourishment is defined as weight for age. The reference population is the WHO/CDC/NCHS reference, representing the percentage of children who score
more than 2 standard deviations below the mean.



                                                                              80

Indicator                                           1998 1999 2000 2001   2002  2003  2004  2005  2006 Targets
% Donor funds earmarked                                             62.3  32.8  39.5  26.3  40.0  61.0   40
% IGF from pre-payment and insurance schemes                         3                                   10
% recurrent funds from GOG and HF allocated to CSOs                 1.2                     3.1          2
% recurrent budget spent on exemptions                              3.6                     8.0   3.0    8
Per capita spending on health ($US)                                 6.3   8.1   10.5  13.5  19.0  25.4




                                                                81

