Report No. PID11183
Project Name             Jamaica-Emergency Economic...
Rehabilitation Loan
Region                   Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                   Finance
Project ID               JMPE76830
Borrower                 Government of Jamaica
Implementing Agencies   Ministry of Finance & Planning (MOF)
Ms. Shirley Tyndall
Financial Secretary
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4, Jamaica, W.I.
Date this PID Prepared   December 21, 2001
Project Appraisal Date   November 5, 2001
Project Board Date       December 20, 2001
Economic and Sector Background
Jamaica faces a number of challenges in the economic arena. Average income
has been stagnant over much of the last three decades, despite very high
investment rates and active development partner engagement. For a time,
beginning in the mid-1980s, Government efforts to introduce broad-based
reforms in the trade and foreign exchange regimes, public sector, and
financial system appeared to bear fruit, stimulating average annual GDP
growth rates of 3.4 percent over the period 1984-96 and bringing about sharp
declines in inflation and notable improvements in Jamaica's fiscal situation
and its external position. However, a severe financial sector crisis in 1996
over-shadowed these reform efforts, and imposed huge costs on the economy.
The crisis was largely attributable to financial sector liberalization that
was not complemented by a sufficiently robust prudential and regulatory
infrastructure. A large number and variety of financial institutions emerged,
enabling regulatory arbitrage. By late 1996, there were compelling signs of
liquidity and solvency problems of systemic dimensions in several financial
institutions, and a major build-up of inflationary pressures. The Government
responded by tightening monetary policy, maintaining a stable nominal
exchange rate, intervening in the financial sector through a full guarantee
for all depositors, strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework of
the financial sector, and re-capitalizing weak institutions using Government-
backed debt issued by a newly created failure resolution agency - the
Financial Sector Adjustment Company Limited (FINSAC).
Nevertheless, the realities of the financial sector crisis forced the
Government to take strong steps, foremost being corrective fiscal measures.
In June 2000, it outlined its medium term macroeconomic program and requested
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) staff to monitor this via a staff-
monitored program (SMP) for the period April 2000-March 2002. Implementation
of the SMP was satisfactory in 2000/01.
Since the summer of 2001, Jamaica has been buffeted by a series of
unanticipated shocks which have complicated considerably the country's
already-difficult economic situation. Among these, by far the most important
in terms of magnitude has been the dramatic drop in travel and tourism to
Jamaica (and the whole Caribbean) following the tragic September 11 events in



the US. In addition, tourism was also adversely affected by the highly
publicized July riots in Kingston. Most recently (in early November 2001),
floods related to heavy rainfall associated with Hurricane Michelle caused
extensive damage to roads and crops, including in tourist areas in the South.
These shocks have occurred against the backdrop of the slowdown in the US
(and the world) economy which has been far more severe than had been expected
when Jamaica was laying out its economic program for GOJ fiscal year 2001/02.
They have affected key economic variables resulting in a decline in current
and anticipated net tourist receipts. This, in turn, has meant a forecast
decline in government revenues and an increase in expenditures as Jamaica
attempts to deal with the fallout of the shocks. The shocks will also
increase the current account deficit and increase unemployment, especially in
sectors that cater to the tourist industry. Finally, Jamaica's fragile
growth recovery will be affected, with the growth rate now anticipated at
about 1-2 percent instead of the 2-4 percent growth anticipated at the start
of the year.
This Government's Emergency Recovery Program includes the following key
elements:
Maintaining Macro-Economic Stability
Maintain internal and external balance despite recent shocks (economic
and climatic).
Continue to maintain a stable, growth-oriented macroeconomic framework,
supported by the IFIs.
Social Protection and Human Development
Protect the most vulnerable population groups from catastrophic income
loss via safety nets.
-       Continue to maintain real expenditures on safety nets.
Address high unemployment through increased labor market flexibility,
and improved protection for the unemployed.
-       Approve and implement labor legislation.
-       Expand and improve targeting of community-based social programs
targeted to the most vulnerable groups, including youth-at-risk
and poor rural communities.
Maintain basic health care services and mount a more intensive effort
to combat HIV/AIDS.
-       Continue to maintain real expenditures on immunization and key
maternal and infant/child health programs.
Provide adequate funding to implement approved HIV/AIDS strategy.
Maintain efficiency and outcomes in education.
-       Continue to maintain non-salary recurrent expenditures for basic
education (including early childhood education) at 2000/01 levels
in real terms.
-2-



-       Maintain targeted subsidies for examination fees for poor
students.
-       Continue to fund the expansion of higher secondary education with
a view towards ensuring universal access.
-       Continue to ensure adequate access to textbooks for all lower
secondary school students.
Facilitating a Rebound in Tourism
Enhance Jamaica's competitiveness in the tourism sector.
-       Implementation of a tourist promotion campaign.
-       Improve security and navigational systems at international
airports and major ports.
Natural Disaster Preparedness and Mitigation
Reduce vulnerability to the impact of natural disasters.
-       Complete hazard mapping and develop/implement action plan for
relocation of vulnerable communities, taking into account
environmental and social impact.
Assist communities affected by recent flooding.
-       Develop detailed plans to rebuild infrastructure and otherwise
assist affected communities.
Public Sector Efficiency
Improved governance and accountability of public enterprises.
-       Enforce provisions of the Public Bodies Management Act, including
passage of amendments to harmonize the Act with related
legislation.
Accelerate efficient private participation in infrastructure.
-       Implement agreements for Sangster and Kingston port and complete
agreements for Montego Bay Port and Norman Manley Airport.
Rationalize the structure of Government agencies so as to improve both
effectiveness and efficiency.
-       Strengthen regulatory capacity of the Office of Utility
Regulation and the Civil Aviation Authority to monitor increased
private participation in infrastructure.
-       Review, develop an action plan for implementing, and implement
study recommendations for the closure, merger, restructuring
and/or re-engineering of the Bureau of Standards, the Statistical
Institute of Jamaica, the Jamaica Information Service; Project
Analysis and Management Company and the National Environment
Protection Agency as a single executive agency for environmental
- 3-



issues.
Improve financial management within the Government (as mentioned by the
CFAA prepared by the World Bank).
-       With the continuing objective of strengthening the financial
management and accounting capabilities of the GOJ including: (i)
moving the entire Central Government to accrual accounting by
providing adequate funds to the public expenditure department to
implement a stronger financial management system capable of
accrual accounting; (ii) provide staff training in accrual
accounting and reporting throughout Central Government; and (iii)
provide staff training to the Auditor General Office in computer-
assisted audit techniques, value-for-money and audits.
Further strengthen public sector procurement in accordance with the
recommendations of the agreed CPAR Action Plan of the World Bank.
-       Implement approved policy following Cabinet approval of the
Procurement Policy Paper.
Financial Sector
Further improve transparency, accountability and financial health of
bank and non-bank financial institutions to strengthen the financial
sector.
-       Completion of legislative process for amendments needed to
Jamaica's statutes in order to address tax evasion and the
financing of terrorist activities in compliance with United
Nations Security Council Resolutions 1373 and 1377.
-       Better enforcement of Money Laundering Act and its amendments
through appropriate legal processes, including the newly-
established Financial Crimes Unit.
-       Bank of Jamaica to strengthen its capacity and issue Guidelines
in relation to the revised Money Laundering Act.
-       Continued satisfactory implementation of the overall financial
sector reforms being undertaken by the Government and being
supported under the second World Bank Restructuring and Debt
Management Program Adjustment Loan (BRDP II).
Loan objectives, description, and financing
The proposed emergency ERL supports the Government's efforts to maintain a
sound macroeconomic program and continue its progress towards achievement of
sustainable economic growth and further poverty reduction in the face of
multiple shocks which have impacted the economy, especially the decline in
international travel to and tourism in Jamaica following the events of
September 11, 2001. The proposed loan would support the Government's program
described above. Specifically it would bridge part of the fiscal gap
generated by the shocks, help to maintain spending in key social programs and
rebuild damaged infrastructure, support private sector-led tourism and
related economic activities, and improve overall governance in the country.
The loan is for US$75 million, to be disbursed in full in a single tranche.
- 4 -



Program implementation
The Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOF) is the implementing agency for the
operation.
Program sustainability
The actions being supported under the loan are intended to assist the
Government of Jamaica to address the impacts of the September 11 attacks in
the US, including to maintain macroeconomic stability, bridge part of the
fiscal gap generated by the shocks, maintain key social and capital spending,
and support private sector-led tourism and other economic activities. The
Government has proven its commitment by requesting and negotiating an SMP
with the IMF to cover Jamaican fiscal year 2002/2003.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The operation has been designed to take into account the lessons learned from
the Bank's past experience in Jamaica and in other countries in the region.
It is being structured taking into account the capacity of the Government to
take actions on various issues. The operation is based on strong borrower
commitment to a sound macroeconomic situation. Loan disbursements are being
restricted to specific policy actions and transactions that are part of the
Government's overall reform strategy.
Poverty category
The loan would have heavy social impact, both in the short and in the long-
term. The measures supported by this loan would have important social
implications as they would assist in the creation of an environment which
would protect the vulnerable, maintain investment in human development, and
ensure benefits in terms of output growth and employment generation.
Environmental aspects
The emergency economic rehabilitation program to be supported by the loan is
not expected to have any environmental impact. For that reason, it has been
placed in Category "C", in accordance with the Bank's Operational Policy on
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01).
Program Objective Category. The Program Objective Category is Economic
Management (EA).
Contact Point:
Task Manager
John H. Stein
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-9021
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington , D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 10, 2002.
-5-



