Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 25181
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(FSLT-70950)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 75 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR AN EMERGENCY ECONOMIC REHABILITATION LOAN
DECEMBER 19, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 29, 2002)
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollars (J$)
49.35J$ = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = J$ 0.0203
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS                 =      Acquired Inmune Deficiency Syndrome
BDRP II              =      Second Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program
CAA                  =      Civil Aviation Authority
CALP                 =      Caribbean Anti-Money Laundering Programme
CAS                  =      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA                 =      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CCT                  =      Conditional Cash Transfer
CDB                  =      Caribbean Development Bank
CPAR                 =      Country Procurement Assessment Report
ERL                  =      Economic Rehabilitation Loan
FMIS                 =      Financial Management Information System
GDP                  =      Gross Domestic Product
HIV                  =      Hurnan Immunodeficiency Virus
ICR                  =      Implementation Completion Report
IMF                  =      International Monetary Fund
MEOYC                =      Ministry of Education, Youth, and Culture
MLE                  =      Ministry of Land and Environment
MOFP                 =      Ministry of Finance and Planning
NEPA                 =      National Enviromnental and Planning Agency
OPR                  =      Office of Revenue Protection
OUR                  =      Office of Utility Regulation
PSMP                 =      Public Sector Modernization Project
QAE                  =      Quality at Entry
QAG                  =      Quality Assessment Group
ROSE II              =      Second Reforrn of Secondary Education Project
SMP                  =      Staff Monitored Prograrn
STATIN                      Statistical Institute of Jamaica
STIP II              =      Second Short-Tern Investment Programme
VAT                  =      Value Added Tax
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Orsalia Kalantzopolous
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Teamn Leader/Task Manager:   David Sislen



JAMAICA
Jamaica Emergency Recovery Loan
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             10
6. Sustainability                                                                 11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               12
10. Additional Information                                                        19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             27
Annex 8. Current Economic Situation in Jamaica                                    28
Annex 9. Coping with Shocks In the Specific Context of the Jamaican Economy       32






Project ID: P076830                                      Project Name: Jamaica Emergency Recovery Loan
Team Leader: David N. Sislen                             TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 23, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Jamnaica Emergency Recovery Loan              L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70950
Country/Department: JAMAICA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Central govemment administration (36%); Law and
justice (18%); General education sector (18%);
Health (18%); Other domestic and international
trade (10%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/15/2001                            Effective: 12/21/2001         12/21/2001
Appraisal:  11/15/2001                               MTR:
Approval:  12/20/2001                             Closing: 06/30/2002         06/30/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                        David de Ferranti
Country Manager:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger                          Danny Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:  David N. Sislen                          John Stein and Neeta Sirur
ICR Primary Author:  Albert Amos and Rashmi
Shankar
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UTN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, H{U=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Introduction
The emergency Economic Rehabilitation Loan (ERL) was prepared at a time of uncertainty following the
events of September 11, 2001 and the expected impact that a downturn in Jamaica's tourism industry would



have on macroeconomic balance and Jamaica's continuing reform efforts. Despite high investment rates,
active development partner engagement, and high levels of Government support to the social sectors, the
Government faced significant challenges on both the economic and social fronts. A severe financial sector
crisis in the mid-i 990s overshadowed the Government's reform efforts and imposed significant economic
costs, and the events of 2001, which included political violence, natural disasters, and a sharp decrease in
tourism, combined with uncertainty as to the extent to which pressure on the tourism industry might
continue from continued terrorism-related activity, led the Govemment to request the Bank's assistance for
fiscal support.
The US$75 million ERL was not a traditional adjustment operation which identified a structural reform
program as condition for Bank resources. Instead, the operation built upon the Government's ongoing
overall development agenda across those sectors most relevant to buffering the impacts of exogenous
shocks beyond the control of the authorities. The operation was designed to address the emergency needs in
a flexible and responsive manner, and the conditions of the loan supported the existing policy agreements
between the Bank and Government, codified in the CAS of 2000. The ERL aimed to enhance
macroeconomic stability with fiscal support to maintain social expenditures, while continuing the sectoral
reform efforts initiated by the Government to support the tourism industry, reduce the vulnerability of the
economy to natural disasters, protect the most vulnerable through improvements to the social safety net,
alleviate employment pressures through increased labor market flexibility, improve the efficiency of
infastructure services, and strengthen the efficiency, accountability, and transparency of the public sector.
Importantly, the ERL allowed the Government to maintain its development trajectory without displacing
irnportant actions; as a result, the CAS period was extended an additional year, and operations contained in
the 2000 CAS were subsequently delivered in 2002.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The emergency ERL supported the Government's efforts to maintain a sound macroeconomic program and
continue its progress towards achievement of sustainable economic growth and further poverty reduction in
the face of multiple shocks which affected the economy, especially the decline in international travel and
international tourism to Jamaica following the events of September 11, 2001. In the context of the
Government's medium-term reform program, the operation aimed to: (i) support the maintenance of
macro-economic stability by bridging part of the fiscal gap generated by external shocks; (ii) address
poverty and social pressures, especially those arising from the emergency; and (iii) support the
Government's efforts to improve the transparency, efficiency, and accountability of the public sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The ERL was a single tranche adjustment loan, disbursed in its entirety shortly after effectiveness. As an
adjustment operation, it was not divided into components per se, but rather supported the achievement of a
program of policy reforms, a number of which were completed as conditions of Board presentation. The
policy agenda supported by the operation included (a) an emergency response program, which aimed to
support macroeconomic stability, maintain social protection efforts through core investments in human
development, facilitate a rebound in tourism, and improve disaster preparedness and mitigation and (b)
efforts to support public sector governance, efficiency, and accountability, which focused on areas of
public sector fiduciary management, including procurement, financial management, and the transparency
and accountability of the financial sector.
- 2-



3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised during implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR finds the quality at entry (QAE) to be satisfactorv based on (a) the consistency of the operation
with most recently prepared CAS (October 2000); (b) the ERL's policy linkage to other Bank operations;
and (c) the demonstrated capacity of the authorities to maintain a consistent policy program along the lines
of that supported by the operation.
The 2000 CAS outlined four "pillars" for a sustainable poverty reduction: (i) restoring economic growth by
rehabilitating the financial sector, consolidating fiscal policy, and strengthening the framework for private
investment; (ii) the protection of the poor and ensuring inclusion by enhancing the efficiency and
effectiveness of social safety nets, improving educational access and outcomes, improving health services,
and stimulating labor-intensive growth; (iii) the improvement of governance, efficiency, and effectiveness in
the public sector by divesting from commercial activities, improving management and information systems,
and reforming public management and incentives; and (iv) fostering sustainable development through
improved synergies in the environment-economy relationship, stimulating sustainable agricultural
development, linking tourism and sustainable development, improving disaster preparedness. The ERL
largely supported all four pillars and included lending conditions that supported the achievement of these
objectives. The ERL also supported ongoing and planned activities by the Bank in public sector
management, the banking and financial sectors, and the social sectors, including HIV/AIDS, social safety
nets, community development, and education. Table I lists the specific Bank projects with policy reform
actions supported by the ERL.
Table 1: World Bank Lending Program to Jamaica Supported by the ERL
Loan                                            US$         Board         Date
million     Approval      Effective
Date
Public Sector Modernization Loan                   28.4    9/3/1996      4/7/1997
Social Safety Nets Project                         40.0    11/4/2001     2/28/2002
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control                    15.0    3/29/2002     8/9/2002
Second Bank Restructuring & Debt Mgmt. Program     75.0    10/24/2002    11/4/2002
(BDRP 11)
Reform of Secondary Education (ROSE II)            39.8    10/24/2002      N/A
National Community Development Project             15.0    10/24/2002      N/A
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome was satisfactorv.
Maintailing macroeconomic stability. The operation supported the ability of the Government to maintain
macroeconomic and fiscal stability despite the multiple shocks that took place in 2001 -- violence in
Kingston in July, the downtum in tourism following the events of September 11, and extensive floods in
late November that damaged one-fifth of total crop acreage. The Jamaican economy had continued on a
path of gradual recovery, and, despite some major concerns regarding the aggregate amount of outstanding
debt, is now in much better shape than has been since the financial crisis of 1996, in large part because of
the Government's comprehensive efforts to resolve the financial crisis. After four years of negative growth
following the financial crisis, real GDP is estimated to have risen by roughly I per cent in 2000/01 and
- 3-



again in 2001/02. Single-digit inflation, a key macroeconomic objective of the Government, was achieved
for the sixth consecutive year, largely through tight monetary policy. Significant improvements in private
capital inflows and govenmment borrowings from successful intemational bond issues in May and
December 2001, led to a rebuilding of net intemational reserves to US$1.9 billion (about 23 weeks of
goods and services imports) at end-March 2002, an increase of over US$650 mnillion (reserves were
US$1.6 billion at the end of November 2002).
The ERL intervention served to improve the country's overall debt profile though the provision of new debt
at lower financing terrns and a reduction in the size and number of large repayments. In addition, the
operation had an immediate and significant impact on the Govemrnment's ability to access extemal and
domestic capital markets, providing a positive signal to investors that the Govemment's finances and the
general macroeconomic conditions were in order. Early signals indicate that the Govemment's overall
policy efforts were well received by the investment community, including: (i) the reaffirmation of the
Government's long term debt and currency ratings by extemal credit rating agencies in the early part of the
2001; and (ii) the issuance of US$300 million in sovereign debt in June 2002 at 10.75 percent yield and a
15-year term, a bond issue which was heavily oversubscribed.
The overall fiscal position weakened in 2001/02, in large part due to the combined effects of the extemal
shocks to the economy, with the central government budget deficit rising to 5.7 per cent of GDP (compared
with the revised SMP target of 4.1 per cent). Though the central government primary surplug declined to
8.0 per cent of GDP in 2001/02 from 11.8 percent in 2000/01, it nonetheless reflects a significant fiscal
adjustment effort. The Government has also maintained tight monetary policy which kept inflation at less
than 7 percent for 2001/02. While the current account deficit is expected to increase to 8.2 per cent due to
higher oil prices and a slower than anticipated recovery in tourism, net intemational reserves remain high at
US$ 1.6 billion at end-November 2002 (18.8 weeks of imports of goods and services). In July 2002, a new
Staff Monitored Program (SMP) was agreed to between the Govenmment and the IMF for 2002/03,
signaling the Govenmment's commitment to fiscal discipline during an election year. Annex 8 reviews the
current macroeconomic situation in Jamaica at the time of the ICR.
Protecting the Vulnerable and Maintaining Core Investment in Human Development. While the
development impact of the operation's support in the areas of social safety nets and the health and
education sectors will only be known in the medium-term, since the effectiveness of the operation, the
Govenmment has maintained real expenditure in key social sectors and appears to be on track to continue its
policy trajectory. Aggregate budget expenditures, including capital and recurrent costs in health and
education, increased by approximately 6 percent from 2001/02 to 2002/03, roughly in line with inflation
(figures are fiscal year estimates as the fiscal year runs through end-March). Non-recurrent expenditures
for basic education are summarized in Table 2.
Table 2: Non-recurrent Expenditures for Basic Education for 2001/02 to 2002/03 in J$000
Non-salary recurrent expenditures            2001/2002       2002/2003      % Change
Class Materials                                 79,866          65,389        -18.1%
Maintenance of Buildings & Equipment            42,664          35,801         -16.1%
Estimated Expenditures on Textbooks            250,696         262,002          4.5%
MOEYC Assistance for School Fees               163,194         186,001         14.0%
Examination & Special Subsidies                 23,530          47,540        102.0%
Total                                          559,950         596,732          6.6%
Source: Ministry of Education, Youth, and Culture (MOEYC).
1. Fiscal 2001/02 was used as the base year.
In addition to maintaining aggregate levels of socially-focused expenditure, the Government has continued
core subsidy programs and taken some steps to improve the effectiveness of social expenditure. Annex 9
-4 -



provides the general framework to understand the impact of external shocks and rnitigation efforts.
Further improving governance, efficiency, and accountability of the public sector. In addition to
providing a mechanism for maintaining macroeconomic stability and social expenditure, the ERL served as
an important vehicle for providing a consistent Bank approach in the areas of public sector management
and governance, especially as regards core fiduciary issues of procurement and financial management. The
ERL specifically supported initiatives being implemented during planned or existing lending operations,
and while the medium-term development impact of efforts to enhance the transparency and accountability
of the public sector are not yet clear, progress to date in the implementation of the procurement, and
financial management reforms, specifically, has remained on track.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall implementation of the main policy actions supported by the ERL is rated satisfactory. In addition
to the implementation of the reforms required as conditions of Board presentation and effectiveness, the
Government has both implemented a variety of non-conditioned reforms and maintained the overall policy
trajectory in the areas supported by the ERL.
Policy Area A: Emergency ResDonse Program
Maintaining macroeconomic stability. The impact of the downturn in tourism revenues and, importantly,
the uncertainty which followed the events of September 11 and potential for future terrorism-related
tourism shocks, combined with the necessity to stabilize inflation and exchange rates, high debt overhang,
and large current account deficit required both fiscal support in the short-term and a policy commitment to
maintain fiscal discipline and a sound macroeconomic framework. After the ERL was made effective and
disbursed, though the Government entered into a new SMP with the IMF and made significant efforts to
achieve fiscal balance -- as reflected in continued high primary account surpluses -- the continued
vulnerability of the economy to shocks, evidenced by both recent flooding and the continued malaise in the
tourism sector, has undermined some of the progress at improving the overall macroeconomic picture.
Social Protection and Human Development. The ERL supported four areas of policy action related to
buffering the impacts of the fiscal crisis on the Government's social protection and human development
efforts:
(a) Protecting the most vulnerable population groups from catastrophic income loss via safety nets.
The downturn in the fiscal accounts threatened the Governnent's options to protect the most vulnerable
sections of society from the impacts of the economic crisis and needed structural reforms. The ERL
specifically supported the Government's efforts and ability to maintain spending and social safety nets, and
to date the Government has done so. In addition to increasing expenditure levels for social safety net
programs, the Government has continued its efforts to consolidate and rationalize existing programs.
Formerly under the moniker of the United Benefit Program and now known as the Program of
Advancement for Health and Education, the Government has increased the provision of monthly conditional
cash transfers (CCT) for health, education, and social security benefits from JM$250 to JM$300 in March
2002. Further, the Government is on track to increase the CCT to JM$375 and JM$500 in FY2003 and
FY2004, respectively. In addition, the pilot efforts in St. Catherine's Parish to streamline the CCT program
have been successful, and the Program is expected to be scaled up nationally in December 2002. In doing
so, CCT transfers will be extended to roughly 236,000 beneficiaries, 220,000 of whom have already
registered for benefits.
(b) Addressing high unemployment through increased labor marketflexibility, and improved
- 5 -



protection for the unemployed. As an action undertaken prior to the presentation of the ERL to the Board,
a "Green Paper" on more flexible work arrangements was completed, and a more detailed draft "White
Paper" has since been prepared and is under review by the Parliament's Legislative Committee. Despite
some initial union concerns regarding overtime payments, the new Cabinet is expected to review the draft
legislation in 2003. Other legislative efforts to address employment issues have also been undertaken,
including amendments to the Labor Relations and Industrial Disputes Act (March 2002), which increased
protections for workers.
(c) Maintaining basic health care services and mount a more intensive effort to combat AIDS.
Expenditures on immunization and key maternal and infant/child health program have been maintained at
least at 2000/01 levels. In addition, an HIV/AIDS Strategy and work plan has been approved by Cabinet,
which focuses on: (i) improving the level of advocacy at the highest levels of governments, including
improved inter-ministerial coordination through a Steering Committee; (ii) increasing AIDS prevention at
the community level; (iii) improving treatment by increasing the number of hospital beds and reducing
treatment costs; (iv) extending social services programs for HIV-positive Jamaicans; and (v) increasing
surveillance efforts, including the preparation and dissemnination of quarterly statistics. As part of the
Govenmment's efforts, negotiations with a number of phannaceutical companies have resulted in the
reduction of the cost of key anti-retroviral drugs by some 85% (from US$ 10,000 per annum to US$1,800).
The Govemrnent's overarching HIV/AIDS program is being undertaken in conjunction with an ongoing
Bank operation, the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project (Loan 7112-JM). The Government is also
actively working with the private sector and representatives from civil society to extend the treatment of
AIDS.
(d) Maintaining efficiency and outcomes in educaton. Fiscal year 2002/03 non-salary recurrent
expenditures for basic education have increased by 6.6 percent in real terns. In addition, the Government
has lived up to its policy commitment to provide textbooks to all students, including the 20 percent that do
not pay education fees, and will continue to subsidize the cost of taking examinations in basic subjects. The
Bank is further supporting education sector reform and efficiency through the recently-approved Second
Reform of Secondary Education Project (ROSE II).
Tourism. As previously noted, the events of September 11th and riots in Jamaica severely affected tourism
and related sectors, and have constrained the fiscal stabilization effort. Tourist arrivals for stopover visitors
declined by 7.6 percent in 2001/02 compared to a growth of 6.3 percent in 2000/01, and net tourism
receipts are estimated to have declined by almost 12 percent in 2001/02, though there is limited data
available regarding the revenue impact during 2002/03. Based on data available to date, 2002/03 monthly
tourist arrivals, including cruise passenger arrivals, have decreased from the previous year. Though
2002/03 data do not yet reflect the peak season (during the late fall and winter months), the Govermment
estimates that tourist arrivals will remain at or below last year's levels. In summary, the negative impact on
Jamaica's tourism sector foreseen during the preparation of the ERL became a reality during the first part
of the 2002/03 fiscal year.
To address the anticipated decline in tourism as a result of September 11th, the Government prepared and
is implementing an action plan for tourism promotion, "Operation Grow". In October 2001, the budget for
tourism promotion increased from US$5.0 million to US$13.0 million with the objectives of increasing
overall tourism, attempting to attract more upscale visitors, and increased diversification beyond its core
market of North America to attract more visitors from Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and the United
Kingdom. Though the effectiveness of Jamaica's tourism promotion efforts are yet unclear, tourism
promotion has involved using traditional and non-traditional dissemination channels as well as close
cooperation with the private sector.
-6-



Although a strategy laying out clear criteria for phasing out temporary relief measures to the hotel industry
is underway, it is unclear whether these incentives will be phased out completely. Under the Second
Short-Term Investment Programme (STIP II) that was approved in October 2001, the Government imposed
a moratorium on value-added taxes (VAT) and corporate taxes paid by hotels and tourist businesses. This
measure was undertaken-in order to assist small hotel operators, which were particularly hard hit by the
external shocks as well as minimize layoffs and potential economic dislocation in the country. The STIP II
is scheduled to terminate in April 2003, but hotel operators can still access benefits from this program for
an additional 2 years after the subnission of their application or until April 2005. The Government is
currently assessing if it will extend this program for another I to 1.5 years.
The Government has also made progress towards implementing the plan for improved airport security at
the two main international airports which was required as a prior action for the ERL. The new security
standards, closely aligned with requirements set by the United States Federal Aviation Authority, are
relatively stringent to address issues of contraband and drug smuggling. In recent months, the Civil
Aviation Authority (CAA) has added and trained staff as well as purchased more sensitive equipment. The
CAA is in the process of a comprehensive organizational restructuring as it transitions to a policy-setting
institution.
Disaster preparedness and mitigation. Jamaica's susceptibility to the natural disasters, particularly
hurricanes and floods, represents an important national challenge. As part of the ERL, disaster
preparedness and mitigation was cited as an area for reform due to the flood damage caused by Hurricane
Michele in November, 2001. While Jamaica is ahead of many other countries in its disaster management
capacity, there is still need to formulate and implement a more comprehensive national policy for disaster
management planning, including linking risk mapping to land development planning. The Government has
identified a number of potential disaster mitigation efforts in its National Environmental Action Plan, but
implementation to date has lagged. Nevertheless, a preliminary impact assessment of the floods in Portland
and the integration of hazard mapping related to storm surges, which was undertaken on a pilot basis in the
Montego Bay area in the St. James Parish, has been completed. Hazard mapping activities along the two
main rivers is ongoing. In the medium-term, the success of the Government's approach to integrate hazard
mapping on a more systemic basis will be contingent upon greater coordination between national level
institutions and the increased involvement of decision makers at the local level, who are often responsible
for land use approval.
Policy Area B: Public Sector Governance, Efficiency, and Accountabilitv
Public Sector Efficiency and Governance. The ERL supported policy efforts linked to both the Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) that was prepared in April 2001 as well as the ongoing
Public Sector Modernization Project (PSMP, Loan 4083-JM), which supported the establishment and
institutional strengthening of a number of semi-autonomous executive agencies. The core areas of policy
effort which were prior actions for the ERL included:
(a) The Public Bodies Management and Accountability Act. The Jamaican Parliament approved this
legislation in 2001, designed to improve the operations and tracking of expenditures of all public
entities. This legislation established sizable sanctions for failure, including holding accounting officers
responsible for non-compliance.
(b) Acceleration ofprivate participation in infrastructure. To increase private participation in
infrastructure, the ERL included (as a non-conditioned prior action) the Government's efforts to select
-7 -



and begin negotiating with concessionaires for the private management of Sangster International
Airport in Montego Bay and Kingston Port. A US$200.0 million concession contract has been awarded
to public-private concessionaire for Sangster International Airport, and financial closure is expected to
be reached in early 2003. The concession contract has a 30-year term with renewal options every
10-years.
Linked to the evolving role of the private sector in airport management, the Government has also
continued its path towards institutional and regulatory reform in the sector; the CAA has been granted
greater authority to oversee economic regulation for air transport and has established separate
directorates for administrative and regulatory activities. Such efforts have been undertaken in part to
ensure that the regulation of the publicly managed Norman Manley Airport and the four airdromes do
not receive preferential treatment. Over the medium-term, the Government has expressed its intent to
evaluate options for extending the private management model to include the Norman Manley Airport in
Kingston as well as the Port of Montego. Moreover, the government has also put to tender the building,
operation, and ownership of a major toll road linking Kingston and Montego Bay and the private
management of the railways. The latter would lead to the resumption of rail service, which has closed
since 1992. To oversee increase private sector participation in other sectors, the Government, with
support from the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), is in the process of strengthening the
institutional and technical capacity of Office of Utility Regulation (OUR), a multi-sector regulatory
agency for power, water, sewerage, and road, rail and ferry ransport.
(c) Rationalization of the Structure of Government Agencies. As part of the Public Sector
Modernization Project (PSMP), a number of efforts have been completed and are underway to improve
the effectiveness and efficiency of a variety of Governnent agencies. Efforts to date have included (i)
the Jamaica Information Service (JIS) has been restructured into a dedicated and coordinated single
news service for Government communications; (ii) the National Enviromnental and Planning Agency
(NEPA) was created in April 2001 as a single executive agency for environmental issues, and NEPA
assists the Ministry of Land and Environment (MLE) with the development and planning of
environmental policies, the preparation of legislation, and parish-level land use planning; (iii) an action
plan has been prepared to rationalize the structure of Statistical Institute of Jamaica (STATIN), but
there has been lirnited progress to date, in part due to limited funding, the need to hire and train
qualified staff, and the delays in the ongoing process of consolidating its two offices; and (iv) the
Proiect Analysis and Monitoring Companv was formally reintegrated with the Ministry of Finance and
Planning (MOFP) on November 1, 2002, a step expected to reduce administrative costs in the
medium-term and support synergies in financial and project planning.
(d) Improving Financial Management within the Government. The ERL included prior actions and a
medium-term policy agenda for strengthening management and accounting capacity of the Government.
Efforts to date have included:
*   The Transfer of the Financial Management Information System (FMIS). The FMIS system
was transferred to the Fiscal Services Ltd, but the FMIS remains outdated and is
inadequate to meet the information needs to track expenditures. Although PSMP has
supported efforts to improve the FMIS, options for strengthening information collection
and reporting systems are currently under review by the Government.
*   Establishment of Accrual Accounting in 8 Executive Agencies. Efforts have been
underway to support the Government's transition from a cash-based to an accrual
accounting system. These efforts have improved accounting reconciliation and reduced the
- 8-



backlog in the preparation of financial statements and through commitment accounts as an
intermediate step toward establishing genuine accrual accounting. The impact of these
efforts remain unclear, in part because of the linkages to the modernized FMIS system.
*   Improving Audit Quality and Independence. The ERL supported efforts aimed at
improving financial management and transparency through the strengthening of internal
audit capacity with training and technical assistance, improvements to the capabilities of
the Auditor General's Office, and through the establishment of Audit Committees in five
Government ministries. While progress has been made in the acquisition of equipment and
provision of training, further work is needed, especially as regards computer assisted
audits to be carried out buy the Auditor General, in improving technical capacity of local
staff.
(e) Strengthening Public Procurement. The Government remains on schedule regarding the
implementation of procurement policy reform actions agreed under the ERL. Most recently, the MOFP
has prepared a policy paper, approved by Cabinet, which updated the existing legal and regulatory
framework for public sector procurement in an effort to clarify institutional arrangements, strearnline
procedures, and improve cost, quality, and sustainability. Moreover, MOFP and the Bank have
recently discussed a new Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), which includes
recommendations for additional improvements to the public procurement system. The Bank will update
the CPAR and send it to the Govermment for final comments and agreements on the proposed action
plan. It is expected that a final draft of the CPAR will be completed and approved in early 2003. These
changes will be incorporated within the Handbook on Public Procurement, which is updated
continuously by the National Contiacts Commission. Nevertheless, MOFP will need to ensure that
there is sufficient funding to implement this action plan and provide the necessary training.
Financial sector transparency. As prior actions for the ERL, the Government introduced amendments to
limit tax evasion and the financing of terrorist activities in compliance with United Nations Security
Council Resolutions #1373 and #1377. Legislative review of these amendments remains underway by the
Attorney General's office within the Ministry of Justice as well as by other relevant entities. There appears
to be significant interest in passing the legislation, which was initiated by the Cabinet from the previous
administration. There has also been considerable progress in regard to improving enforcement of the Money
Laundering Act, approved by Parliament in 1996. The Attorney General's office reports an increase in the
number of money laundering trials during 2002, related, in part, to the recent amendments to the legislation
that better targets money laundering through remittances and money wiring. The ability of prosecutors has
also been improved through the provision of technical assistance and training through the Caribbean
Anti-Money Laundering Programme (CALP). In addition, the Government has established the Financial
Crimes Unit, which is being merged with the Office of Revenue Protection Revenue Protection Department,
to investigate and prosecute money laundering offenses. The OPR has received technical assistance from
the Financial Sector Reform Program, including the provision of training and study tours to Canada.
Although the Unit currently reports to the Ministry of Justice, it is in the process of being transferred to the
MOFP.
The Bank continues to remain engaged in the areas of financial sector accountability and transparency. The
Second Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Loan (Loan 71 50-JM) was approved and made
effective in late 2002 and supports (a) the resolution of financial institutions; (b) phase-out of the crisis
management agency; (c) the restructuring and management of the public debt arising from the resolution of
the financial crisis; and (d) regulatory, and supervisory reforms in the financial sector, and improvements in
the financial infrastructure for renewed bank lending.
-9-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as being modest. Because of the very nature of
the operation -- as an emergency intervention which counted on ongoing policy reform efforts underway by
the Government -- the ERL did not specifically support medium-term institutional development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The ERL was designed to mitigate the macroeconomic impact of four key factors outside the control of the
Govermnent:
*   Exogenous shocks. The ERL directly responded to exogenous shocks related to the events of
September 11, 2001 and the domestic economic impacts to a foreseen (and realized) drop on tourism
revenues.
* General economic slowdown. The general slowdown in the world economy, particularly the economic
downturn in the U.S., has dampened the number of tourist arrivals and decreased fiscal revenues. In
general tenns, perceived travel risks regarding air safety in the U.S. and threat of additional terrorist
attacks has also constrained growth in tourist travel.
*   Floods. The November 2001 flooding was an added factor that necessitated the preparation of the loan,
and heavy rains and additional flooding in St. Elizabeth's and St. Andrew's Parishes have continued.
*   Civil Disturbances. The operation was prepared in the wake of civil disturbances in June 2001.
Since the disbursement of the ERL, the Government's ability to fully realize the impacts of the fiscal and
financial sector reform efforts it has undertaken have been stymied by some of the same problems:
continued global and regional economic malaise, the continued irnpact of terrorism on the tourism sector,
and further flooding and natural disasters which have required fiscal mobilization on the part of the
Government.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government was responsible for the satisfactory fulfillment of the prior policy reform actions agreed
during the preparation of the ERL and has maintained its overall policy trajectory, with no backtracking
and significant progress towards the areas of medium-term policy refonr identified. In addition, the ERL
has supported the establishment of a constructive dialogue with the Bank which has furthered reform and
lending arrangements in other sectors.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As a single tranche disbursement, there were few factors under the control of the implementing agency after
loan effectiveness and the complete disbursement of the ERL.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable.
-10-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the reform program supported by the ERL is rated as likely. All indications point to a
continued path of fiscal discipline and sound macroeconomic management, but the continued vulnerability
of the economy to exogenous shocks could undermine the Government's adjustrnent efforts.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Nearly all the policy reforms delineated under the loan had been in progress prior to the approval of the
ERL and comprise aspects of the strategic objectives of the Government within each of the affected sectors.
A number of policy reform actions are supported by ongoing and planned Bank sector interventions.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Given that the operation intended to address urgent fiscal needs and reflecting the extremely short period of
time in which the Bank team was able to operationalize the Government's reform activities, Bank
performance during preparation is rated as highly satisfactory. In order to be responsive the client's needs
to mobilize resources in the aftermath of the events of September 11, the team fielded a mission in
mid-November, presented the operation to the Bank's Board of Directors on December 20, and the
operation was made effective on December 21 and immediately disbursed. The operational documentation
is of high quality, despite the compressed timeframe in which preparation took place. Further, the team
evaluated a series of instruments, including an investment operation and an Emergency Recovery Loan, and
in retrospect, the choice of instrument was the appropriate one given the objectives of the operation.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated as satisfactorv. Since the intervention comprised a single tranche credit
supporting important aspects of the Government's overall development agenda, preparation of the CAS
progress report and sectoral operations took the place of specific supervision of the ERL.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactorv. This rating is based on the responsive and rapid support
to the Government and the important impact that the operation had on ensuring that the Government was
able to maintain its development agenda and avoid major deviations in the areas of policy action supported
by the Bank. In large part as a result of the ERL, the Bank prepared a CAS progress report in September
2002, extending the period of the 2000 CAS by one year and ensuring that the remaining areas of Bank
support to the Government development agenda be delivered.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly satisfactorv. The Borrower acted quickly to identifying its needs, clearly articulating its view of the
suitable instrument for addressing its macroeconomic and fiscal imbalances, and working with the Bank
team to put together this operation in an extremely short time period.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Borrower has satisfactorily completed nearly all policy reform actions, especially in
regard to maintaining social sector expenditures, has not backtracked on important reform measures, and
has made significant progress in a number of areas towards the medium-term policy actions identified in the
ERL Program of Action Matrix.



7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not applicable.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Given the policy reform track record and overall macroeconomic conditions, overall borrower performance
is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Suitability of instrument type. During preparation, a critical issue centered on the type of lending
instrument to support the Government during its period of fiscal pressure. A multi-year investment loan
was considered and rejected due to the need for a fast-disbursing mechanism that would provide the
Government with adequate resources to meet its budgetary needs. An Economic Recovery Loan (prepared
under the auspices of Operation Policy 8.50) was also considered, but the the instrument selected provided
the Government with greater the financial flexibility to ensure that social spending, especially in health and
education, would not be reduced during the adjustment period.
Appropriateness of lending conditions. The loan delineated a number of policy reform "prior actions"
across a number of sectors -- some of which were indicated as conditions of Board presentation and others
which were not. The ICR finds that most of these actions were appropriate and consistent with the
objectives of the operation, though the breadth of the reform program (which ranges from HIV/AIDS to
private sector participation in the airports sector to a hazard mapping pilot) in some ways detracts from the
core message and objective of the operation, to support macroeconomic stability and maintain social
efforts. Future operations might consider a less comprehensive set of prior actions, especially those which
are not considered requirements of Board presentation or Effectiveness, and give the impression of
"window dressing". Nonetheless, the operation achieved important results not necessarily envisaged at the
time of preparation, and became as a useful mechanism to further reform efforts supported by other Bank
operations and to pace the way for future engagement in areas of Public Sector Modernization, for
example.
Adequate coordination with other IFIs. At the time of the loan, the Government of Jamaica could have
obtained additional resources from the IMF, but the entry of the IMF at the time might have provided
investors with a negative signal, indicating that the macroeconomic and fiscal situation was much worse
than anticipated. Notwithstanding, the IMF extended its Staff Monitoring Program for a third consecutive
year, which it normally avoids without a larger financial involvement. This program has had the positive
effect of creating the environment for more rigorous monitoring of the macroeconomnic framework, which
has helped limit possible excesses that may occur during an election year.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
EMERGENCY ECONOMIC REHABILITATION LOAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Loan No. P7493 JM)
I. BACKGROUND
Between 1997 - 2001 Jamaica made considerable progress in stabilizing the economy and
undertook many needed structural adjustment programmes. This was reflected in the strong
- 12 -



efforts that were made in fiscal year 2000/01 which resulted in the stabilization of the debt6/GDP
ratio levels, a resumption of growth and increased confidence in the Jamaican economy by
domestic and international investors. Macro-economic developments up to September 2001 were
consistent with the achievement of more rapid growth in GDP, improving fiscal operation and
easing of monetary conditions. The strong fiscal effort was accompanied by prudent monetary
policy, which led to the maintenance of single digit inflation and facilitated an orderly adjustment
of the exchange rate. Public sector reform initiatives continued and there was further restructuring
of the financial sector.
Satisfactory progress was made in the calendar year.
However this was to be short-lived, as by the summer of 2001, Jamaica was faced with a series of
unanticipated shocks, which considerably complicated the economic situation. Amnong these were;
the dramatic decline in travel and tourism following the tragic September 11 events in the United
States, the extensive damage done to critical infrastructure (roads) and crops as a result of heavy
rainfall and floods associated with Hurricane Michelle and the negative effects associated with the
July riots in Kingston.
These shocks affected key economic variables and this meant a forecast decline in government
revenues and an increase in expenditures as the Government attempted to deal with the fallout
of the shocks. The shocks were also far more severe than had been expected when the
Government was laying out its economic programme for fiscal year 2001/02.
To address these challenges the Jamaican authorities designed and embarked on an overall
recovery and rehabilitation plan to put the economic programme back on track. As part of the
plan the support of the World Bank was sought, this led to the Emergency Economic
Rehabilitation Loan.
II. LOAN OBJECTIVES
The main underlying objectives of the Emergency Economic Rehabilitation Loan Program was to
provide support to the Government of Jamaica's efforts of (i) bridging the fiscal gaps generated by
the shocks, (ii) maintaining spending in key social programs and rebuilding damaged
infrastructure (iii) supporting private sector led tourism and related economic activities and (iv)
improving overall governance in the country.
More specifically, the loan was intended to support the Government of Jamaica' s Emergency
Recovery Program of actions in the medium term, in the following areas:
(1) Maintaining Macro-economic stability - maintaining internal and external balance despite
recent shocks (economic and climatic)
(2) Protecting the most vulnerable population groups from catastrophic income loss via safety
nets;
(3)  Addressing high unemployment through increased labour market flexibility and improved
protection for the unemployed;
- 13-



(4) Maintaining basic health care services and mount a more intensive effort to combat
HIV/AIDS;
(5)  Maintaining efficiency outcomes in education;
(6)  Enhancing Jamaica's competitiveness in the tourism sector;
(7)  Reducing the vulnerability of the impact of natural disasters;
(8)  Assisting communities affected by recent flooding
(9) Improving Governance and accountability of public enterprises;
(10) Accelerating efficient private participation in infrastructure;
(11) Rationalizing the structure of Government agencies so as to improve both effectiveness and
efficiency;
(12) Improving financial management within the Government
(13) Further Strengthening public sector procurement in accordance with the recommendation of
the CPAR Action Plan
(14) Further Improving Financial Sector Transparency.
III. BANK SUPPORT:
Overall, the loan programme supported a centrally directed and demand driven approach, which
has become characteristic of all World Bank projects administered in the 1990's.
Identification & Preparation: Pursuing a Staff Monitored Programme as agreed with the IME
provided a solid macroeconomic underpinning in the formulation of the loan programme. and in
obtaining a clear understanding of the components. Consequently, the Government of Jamaica
was able to work closely with the Bank in preparing the Project design.
Close consultations and coordination were also held with the IADB, which provided a similar
amount of fast disbursing assistance through modifications and advances of its operations for
social safety nets and the financial sector. The Bank also coordinated closely with the CDB, which
provided some measure of financing, along with other initiatives.
Appraisal: The Bank, the IMF and the IADB were involved in the appraisal process and suitable
expertise was provided during consultations. The appraisal and project design were sound. The
implementation plan was detailed and contained achievable policy outcomes.
Supervision: Supervision by the Bank was adequate. This mainly involved having consultations
with the Ministry of Finance and Planning and receiving status updates/progress reports and/or
clarification on certain issues.
-14 -



IV. ACHIEVMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
(i) Maintaining Macro - economic stability
The Government of Jamaica continued to meet the targets as agreed under the Staff Monitored
Programme.
(ii) Protecting the most vulnerable population groups from catastrophic income loss via safety nets
In order to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country the Government
continued to administer its main Social Assistance Programmes and maintained its level of
expenditure in these programmes.
(iii) Addressing high unemployment through increased labour market flexibility, and improved
protection for the unemployed
Remarkable progress was made in this area:
* Discussions continued by the Joint Select Committee of Parliament as it concerns the
introduction of Flexi- Work arrangements.
* Amendments to the Labour Relations and Industrial Disputes Act were passed and
have been incorporated into law.
* The Electronic Labour Exchange was made fully operational.
* The National Community Development Project was developed and it incorporated
employment generation as a criterion for selection of projects.
* JSIF's 2002/2003 Operational Manual indicated that community based social
programme was being targeted to the most vulnerable, shifting focus to the 4th
Quartile.
(iv) Maintaining basic health care services and mount a more intensive effort to combat HIV/AIDS
Programmes for maintaining basic health services (inclusive of immunization and maternal/child
health programmes were maintained and initiatives continued  for the implementation of an
effective HIV/AIDS strategy.
(v) Maintaining efficiency outcomes in education
In an effort to maintain the projected efficiency outcomes in education:
-15 -



* Expenditure levels were maintained for basic education;
* The ongoing programme of providing subsidies for examination fees for poor students was
continued.
* The Govermnent introduced an initiative to pay the examination fees for all students sitting
Examinations in any of the 4 subjects, English, Mathematics, Computer Studies and a
Science Subject;
* Efforts were continued to provide for the expansion of secondary education;
* The Ministry of Education continued its distribution of foundation textbooks to schools.
(vi) Enhancing Jamaica's competitiveness in the tourism sector
The Government continued to introduce initiatives to provide for the diversification of the tourist
base and accordingly implemented a promotions campaign.
(vii)    Reducing the vulnerability to the impact of natural disasters
Despite the failure to implement the action plan for the permanent relocation of communities
vulnerable to natural disasters, some measure of progress was made in the area. Hazard mapping
was conducted for some of the disaster prone areas and action plans were developed.
(viii)   Assisting communities affected by recent flooding
Based on the various impact assessments that were done for flood-ravaged communities, plans
were developed to facilitate the rebuilding of infrastructure. Major roads and infrastructure
(bridges) were also re-constructed.
(ix) Improved Governance and Accountability of Public Enterprises
The Government continued to enforce the provisions of the Public Bodies Management and
accountability Act, 2001 and undertook efforts to harmonize the Act with related legislation.
Activities were well advanced to facilitate private participation in infrastructure, I:e private
management of the Airports and the Ports..
(x) Accelerating efficient private participation in infrastructure
Activities were well advanced to facilitate private participation in infrastructure, I:e private
-16 -



management of the Airports and the Ports..
(xi) Rationalizing the structure of Government agencies so as to improve both effectiveness and
efficiency
Considerable progress was made under this sub-component
An Action plan was developed based on the recommendations of studies conducted under the
Public  Sector  Management   and  the  Public  Sector  Restructuring  Projects  and
restructuring/rationalizing activities have commenced and are well advanced in the identified
agencies.
(xii)    Improving Financial Management within the Government
Under this sub-component, which provided for improved financial management within the
Government, the following targets were achieved.
* Activities were undertaken to upgrade the accounting and Financial Management
Methodology and introduce procedures/measures to encompass Accrual Accounting in
Central Government.
The activities to implement a standardized state of the art web-based Payroll System for
Central Government to replace the nearly two (2) dozen disparate payroll systems that are
run by Ministries and agences was well advanced. The standardization of Payroll will
greatly facilitate the usefulness of HRMIS and other HR-related initiatives.
In conjunction with the above, the details for FMIS consolidation with Fiscal Services are being
finalized, so that Managers and Planners that require a consolidated picture of expenditure
data may access FMIS data centrally.
* The Internal Audit capabilities of Central Government were strengthened in the following
areas;
- Courses were conducted for internal auditors.
- Audit command language (ACL) software packages and personal computers were
acquired and distributed.
- The use of Standard Working Papers was introduced and is being used. Internal audit
manual containing the new standards are currently being printed and will be
distributed by December 2002.
* The establishment of active audit committees in Ministries was well advanced.
(xii)    Further strengthening of public sector procurement in accordance with the
recommendations of the agreed CPAR Action Plan
-17 -



Under this sub-component the approved policy objectives have been incorporated into GOJ's
public sector procurement governing documentation and disseminated service -wide.
Implementation is on going through the provision of advice to procuring entities and the general
public, as necessary.
(xiii)   Further improving transparency, accountability and financial health of bank and
non-bank financial institutions to strengthen the financial sector
Significant progress was made under this sub-component
* Bill was drafted to address the financing of terrorist activities in compliance with United
Nations Security Council Resolutions 1373 and 1377.
* Measures were introduced to strengthen security at all ports of entry and the national
airline tightened its security procedures.
* An Order was issued to designate remittance companies as financial institutions under the
Money Laundering act.
* A Financial Analysis unit/Financial Intelligence Unit was established within the Financial
Crimes Division.
* The Financial Crimes Division was transferred to the Ministry of Finance & Planning but
liaises with the Director of Public Prosecutions to investigate financial crimes, Money
laundering, crimes in financial institutions and to identify and trace assets derived from
Predicate offences.
* Amendments were made to various acts regulating financial institutions, as part of the
reforms to strengthen the financial sector.
* A new non-bank supervisory authority, the Financial Services Commission (FSC) was
established to strengthen the supervision and regulation of non-deposit taking activities.
* FINSAC was wound up having completed its task of divesting assets.
V. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
The Economic Emergency Rehabilitation Loan Program was affected by:
* The damage done to the island's infrastructure (road work network) and agricultural sector
by flood rain in May 2002 and September 2002 and the resulting need for the Government
to reallocate the already scarce resources.
VI. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
-18 -



The Government is committed to its medium - term economic programme that is being
monitored by the IMF under the Staff Monitored Programme. As a result the programme has laid
the foundation for maintaining macroeconomic stability, which will create the balance needed to
address poverty and social pressures, especially those arising from the emergency, and further
improve governance, efficiency and accountability performance of the public sector.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
Overall, the Bank's performance in all the stages of the project cycle was satisfactory.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The Government of Jamaica is of the view that the major objectives of the Economic Emergency
Rehabilitation Loan Programme have been achieved.
IX KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A properly executed programme of this kind requires oversight of top administrative
representatives who recognize the tremendous importance of the programme.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                 Projecd In last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Not Applicable.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                 Projected In last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
Not Applicable.
-20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Ptoject Cost by Comonent (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
ProJect Cost By Component           US$ million  US$ million
Tranche Release                                  74.25         74.25           100
Total Baseline Cost                              74.25         74.25
Physical Contingencies                           0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                              0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs           74.25         74.25
Front-end fee      0.75          0.75
Total Financing Required           75.00         75.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB         Other2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                   0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                   0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Budget Support           0.00        0.00         75.00       0.00        75.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (75.00)      (0.00)     (75.00)
Total                    0.00         0.00        75.00        0.00        75.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (75.00)      (0.00)     (75.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB        Other'       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                   0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
_________________ __  -  -(0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                   0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Budget Support          0.00         0.00        75.00        0.00       75.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (75.00)     (0.00)      (75.00)
Total                    0.00         0.00        75.00       0.00        75.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (75.00)     (0.00)      (75.00)
-21 -



" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
.Pcrcentage of Appraisal
Cononent                Appraisal Estimate            ActuaVLatest Estimate
-________ _  Bank    (ovt       CpF.      Bank       Govt.      COF     Baak    Govt,    CeF.
Budget Support            75.00                           75.00                         100.0
-22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
-23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/2001          Team Leaders
Economist   2
Counsel
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/2001
Supervision
N/A
ICR
11/18/2002 -                I    Economist
11/22/2002                  1    Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                20                        72.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                      9                        31.0
Supervision                                0                         0.0
ICR                                        4                        25.0
Total                                     33                       128.4
-24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                       O H *SUOM O N O NA
?Sector Policies                      O H 0OSUOM O N O NA
0 Physical                            OH   OSUOM     ON    *NA
Z Financial                           O H OSU*M O N O NA
0 Institutional Development           0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
Environmental                        OH   OSUOM     ON    *NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM O N * NA
0 Gender                        O H OSUOM O N * NA
E Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N O NA
 Private sector development          0 H O SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
 Public sector management            0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
E Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N O NA
-25-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
 Lending                                          OHS OS OLU OHU
I Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
0 Overall                                          OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
 Preparation                                      OHS OS       O    U   OHU
 Government implementation performance            O HS OS      O U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
0 Overall                                          OHS OS OU O HU
-26-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Report and Recommendation of the President on the Emergency Economic Rehabilitation Loan (Report
No. P7493-JM), December 7, 2001
2. Complete operation documentation / reports on file
-27 -



Additional Annex 8. Current Economic Situation In Jamaica
I.     During the last fiscal year, the economy was hit by a series of shocks including an outbreak of
domestic violence in July, the impact of September 11 terrorist attacks on tourism, and floods in November
and then again in May 2002 which caused considerable damage to agriculture and infrastructure. Despite
an impressive policy effort, the Jamaican economy remains highly vulnerable. The debt to GDP ratio, at
about 133 per cent of GDP, remains very high, the exchange rate appreciated by 41 percent between 1995
and 1998 and has remained largely unchanged since then, which has eroded competitiveness and growth
prospects. Combined with the negative impact of crime and violence and the decline in tourism receipts, the
economy remains vulnerable, with little room for policy maneuver. Continued lack of economic recovery in
North America and the prospect of increased crime and violence traditionally associated with general
elections are a cause for concern.
2.     The Jamaican economy has been continuing on a gradual recovery path, and, despite some major
concerns on the debt front, has recovered considerably since the domestic financial crisis began in 1996.
After four years of negative growth following the financial crisis, real GDP is estimated to have risen by
roughly I per cent in 2000/01 and again in 2001/02, in spite of the multiple shocks of 2001. The fiscal
effort that began in 1998/99 has been sustained. Single-digit inflation, a key macroeconomic objective of
the Government, was achieved for the sixth consecutive year (inflation was 7.6 per cent at end-March
2002, a little higher than 6.4 per cent in March 2001), largely through tight monetary policy. The exchange
rate is being used as nominal anchor to help stabilize inflation, though there has been some concern about
the resulting loss of competitiveness. Significant improvements in private capital inflows and government
borrowings from successful international bond issues in May and December 2001, led to a re-building of
net international reserves to US$1.9 billion (about 23 weeks of goods and services imports) at end-March
2002, an increase of over US$650 million (reserves were US$1.8 billion at the end of June). Also, S&P
projected a stable outlook based on the Government's maintenance of macroeconomic stability.
3.     However, these shocks have severely affected tourism and its related sectors, and have constrained
the fiscal stabilization effort. Tourist arrivals for stopover visitors declined by 7.6 per cent in 2001/02
compared to a growth of 6.3 per cent in 2000/01. Net tourism receipts are estimated to have declined by
almost 12 per cent in 2001/02, a combination of heavy discounting and lower arrivals. A recovery in
tourism which was anticipated towards the second half of 2002/03, now remains quite uncertain and the
economy continues to be vulnerable to economic conditions in North America
4.     The achievement of long-run growth and stability is to a large extent dependent on successful
public finance management. The fiscal deficit deteriorated in 2001/02, owing to lower revenues as well as
increased expenditures relating to the shocks described above. The economy was growing at about 3 per
cent from April to September 2001, primarily due to a recovery in agriculture from the previous year's
drought, resumption of bauxite and aluminum production after a disruption in a processing plant in the US,
and growth in tourism. In the second half of 2001, three major shocks affected economic recovery --
violence in Kingston in July, the tourism impact of September 11 (aggravated by the slowdown in the US
economy), and extensive floods in late November, which damaged one-fifth of Jamaica's crop acreage.
Also, heavy flooding in May 2002 damaged agricultural crops and infrastructure. The macroeconomic
benchmarks prepared at the time of the 2000 CAS were also off-target -- per capita GDP growth,
anticipated to be 0.7 per cent for 2000/01 and 1.7 per cent for 2001/02 (as per the then SMP), in fact
turned out to be negative for both years owing to the shocks of 2001 and interest rates that were higher than
forecast. The debt to GDP ratio was projected by the Government's initial (2000) SMP to decline by 8 and
9 percentage points respectively in the years 2000/01 and 2001/02 respectively. It actually declined by
- 28 -



about 2 percentage points over the two fiscal years, assuming corrected initial starting points.
5.     The strong fiscal adjustmnent effort since 1998/99 weakened in 2001/02 due to the combined effects
of the shocks that hit Jamaica. This is evidenced by the central government budget deficit rising to 5.7 per
cent of GDP, a substantial deviation from the revised SMP target of 4.1 per cent, and the original target of
2.8 per cent. This was mainly due to lower revenues from taxes, and increased expenditure on security,
tourism promotion and flood relief, wage settlements due earlier than anticipated, and higher interest The
central government primary surplus declined to 8.0 per cent of GDP in 2001/02 from 11.8 per cent in
2000/01, still reflecting a significant fiscal adjustment effort by the Government.
6.     Public sector debt declined from 134.4 per cent of GDP at end-March 2001 to 133 per cent of
GDP at end-March 2002, lower than the over 6 percentage points decline anticipated in the May 2001
SMP projection. The smaller decline in the debt reflects, among other causes, the higher fiscal deficit, issue
of additional government-guaranteed bonds to finance Highway 2000, and downward revision of the
end-March 2001 debt data. The continued high debt and debt service is the biggest concern for the
authorities, even as they have managed to arrest the increase in the debt to GDP ratio. On the external
front, the debt service ratio rose from 14.6 per cent of exports of goods and services in 2000/01 to 19.2
percent in 2001/02.
7.     There has been a downward trend in interest rates, with the six-month treasury bill declining from
16.9 per cent at end-March 2001 to 14.3 per cent at end-March 2002, but have since risen, in large part
due to the Government's efforts to defend the exchange rate.
8.     After a marginal depreciation in 2000/01, the real effective exchange rate appreciated by 4 per cent
in 2001/02-compared to 1995, the real exchange rate has appreciated substantially and has eroded
Jamaica's competitiveness and its prospects for growth, even as it has helped lower inflationary
expectations. Lower export earnings (due to lower prices on bauxite and aluminum), a decline in tourism
receipts and increased investment income outflows have resulted in a widening of the current account
deficit from 5.7 per cent of GDP in 2000/01 to 8.0 per cent of GDP in 2001/02. This occurred despite a 17
per cent increase in remittances to US$986 million in 2001/02. The rising trend in the current account
deficit is a cause for concern, since a very significant part is financed by foreign direct investment in
sectors such as hotels and telecommunications, where the investment momentum may not continue at its
present pace.
9.     The Government aims to accelerate growth to 2.5 per cent through continued fiscal consolidation,
macroeconomic stability and structural reforms. The primary sources of growth include recovery in
agriculture, tourism and mining as well as continued modest growth in services, particularly in the
teleconimunications sub-sector. The Government has comnmitted itself to strong fiscal adjustments,
including measures to improve tax compliance, reduction in waivers on taxes and fees, and restraint in
expenditures on wages and salaries. The central government deficit is projected to fall another 3 to 4 per
cent of GDP and the central governnent primary surplus to increase to 10.4 per cent of GDP (public sector
primary surplus to 11 per cent of GDP). However, the overall public sector deficit is expected to remain
high at 6.6 per cent of GDP (6.8 per cent in 2001/02), due to a projected increase in the Bank of Jamaica
operating loss. Continued sources of economic fragility, reflected most directly in the fiscal deficit, have
included unanticipated expenditures in the wake of flood events, weaker than expected tourism receipts,
election year spending, and revenue collection efforts which have no met expectations.
10.    A tight monetary policy, and supportive exchange rate policy is to be maintained to keep inflation
at less than 7 per cent for 2002/03. While the current account deficit is expected to increase to 8.2 per cent
- 29 -



due to higher oil prices and a slower than anticipated recovery in tourism, net international reserves will
remain high at US$ 1.6 billion at end-March 2003 (18.8 weeks of imports of goods and services).
Table 3: Outlook for Selected Economic Indicators under the Authorities' Program
Key Indicators                             Actual    -------------- Projection -------------
(in % unless otherwise indicated)       2000/01   2001/02    2002/03   2003/04   2004/05  2005/06
Output
Growth of Real GDP                              1.1       1.1        2.5      2.5       2.5       2.5
Prices
Inflation rate (CPI end of period)             6.4        7.6       6.5       7.0       7.0       7.0
Interest rates (180-day T-bills)               16.9      14.3       14.0      14.0     13.5      13.0
Average exchange rate (LCU/US$)              44.06      46.50         -         -         -         -
Public Finance (% of GDP)
Total public debt(netofintra-public-          131.9     130.6      125.5     121.3     114.7    106.9
sector debt)
Total public debt/I                           134.4     133.0      129.5     123.3     116.4    108.4
Public sector prinary balance                  12.2       8.6       11.0      11.1      11.3      11.3
Central government balance (adjusted)/2        -5.5      -5.7        4.4      -3.2     -1.7       0.0
Extemal
Current account/GDP                            -5.7      -8.0       -8.2      -7.6     -7.3      -7.5
Net international reserves (USS m)            1286       1942      1600      1676      1784      1957
Debt Service/Exports of G&S                    14.6      19.2       30.1      19.3      23.8      24.2
1. Includes resolution of Bank of Janaica losses. See footnote 6 in the text.
2. An expenditure of about 0.6 percent of GDP is anticipated to address the May 2002 flood damage. However, this has yet been
incorporated into SUP tagets for 2002/03. See footnote 4 in the text.
11.     The key development challenge remains the resumption of sustainable growth and this will require
sustained policy effort on improving infrastructure services, labor market reform, tackling crime and
violence, imnproving agricultural productivity, reducing vulnerability to natural disasters, ensuring
environmental sustainability and continuing progress on social sector reforms. A key factor in the success
of the reforms thus far has been the strong ownership and commitment to the reform agenda on the part of
the Government, which has allowed it to maintain its reform momentum despite external shocks and fiscal
pressures.
12.     Despite considerable policy effort, Jamaica has yet to realize its full potential for private
investment and growth. On the macro side, the Government's sustained policy efforts have stabilized
somewhat the environment for private investment with single digit inflation, though the decline in interest
rates has been modest and not at the levels targeted in the 2000 SMP. On the structural side, the
Govermment has made very good progress on the financial sector agenda, but much remains to be done in
the other major areas of improving infrastructure services and labor market reform. One aspect of
infrastructure reform is increasing private participation in the sector, which will assist in relieving some
fiscal pressure as well.
13.     Despite efforts to diversify the Jamaican economy, its dominant economic activities - bauxite
mining, tourism and agriculture remain natural resource based. Periodic natural disasters, including recent
floods, highlight the critical importance of safeguards to protect the island's inter-dependent eco-systems.
While Jamaica has made some progress towards achieving some of the internationally agreed goals relating
to the environment, a fairly significant agenda remains, in particular, flooding and soil erosion due to loss
of forest cover, inadequate treatment of sewage and disposal of solid wastes, the deterioration of the coral
reefs due to land based pollution and flooding due to blocked drains caused by illegal dumping in gullies,
-30 -



rivers and open lots.
14.    Jamaica has had an impressive record of poverty reduction since it began monitoring living
conditions in 1988, in spite of an unimpressive growth record. After dropping very significantly to 19.9 per
cent in 1997, the poverty ratio has stabilized around the 16-17 per cent level, and was 16.8 per cent in
2001, down from 18.7 per cent in the previous year. At this level, the ratio is below that of many
comparator countries, and part of the challenge for Jamaica would be to consolidate these gains in poverty
reduction, strive to reduce rural poverty (much higher at 24.1 per cent) and reduce the incidence of extreme
poverty. Social indicators for Jamaica are also comparatively high, reflecting sustained commitments to
health and education. Life expectancy is about 75 years, enrollment in primary and lower secondary
education is near universal, and access to safe water and sanitation is about 80 and 99 percent respectively.
Despite the positive record, Jamaica faces serious problem of social tension, with young people being the
most seriously affected, both as victims as well as perpetrators. High unemployment and early school
leaving among youth are strong factors.
-31 -



Additional Annex 9. Coping with Shocks In the Specific Context of the Jamaican Economy
1.     The Jamaican authorities have taken proactive measures to redesign and refocus social security
programs to improve efficiency in protecting the poor and vulnerable groups, especially necessary in the
context of the shocks the economy to which the economy has been subjected over the last year and a half.
Inplementation of these reforms, which began in 2001, include the merging of three social assistance
programs, introducing a new household-based targeting mechanism, and improving program efficiency of
education and workfare programs. The Bank supports this reform through the Social Safety Net Project,
and the initial pilot of the Conditional Cash Transfer to be implemented nationwide with about 236,000
beneficiaries expected to be enrolled by mid 2003.
2.     However, the economy's vulnerability to shocks, combined with the necessity to stabilize inflation
and exchange rates, the high debt overhang and large current account deficit limit the Government's options
to protect the most vulnerable sections of society from the painful adjustment necessary to achieve
structural reform.
3.     The Caribbean Economic Overview (2000) provides a rigorous framework in which to understand
the sources of different kinds of shocks, and the various options that can be used to address the negative
impact of these. Without replicating the analysis, the three main options are market insurance,
self-insurance and self-protection. Where all these fail, or are insufficient, outside support may become
essential.
4.     The model outlined below is an amalgamnation of many different kinds of hypotheses about how
economies work: Hick's IS-LM, the Mundell-Fleming Model, and the monetary approach to the balance of
payments. The idea is to demonstrate the impact of various policies on key macroeconomic variables, in a
comparative static framework, and given the constraints imposed by the specific situation in Jamaica on the
options left open to the policy makers.
Stabilization Policy For Jamaica
5.     There are three components to any stabilization program. First, securing sustainable extemal
financing; secondly, adopting demand restraining measures consistent with available financing and thirdly,
proceeding with structural reforms to promote long run growth. In the Jamaican context, these goals are to
be achieved under the constraints of high indebtedness, a negative fiscal surplus, high current account
deficit and the necessity to maintain exchange rate stability given the need to preserve inflation at
single-digit levels.
6.     Additionally, priority must be given to at least maintaining, if not increasing social spending.
Jamaica has experienced civil disturbances as a result of the special vulnerability of the poor to external
shocks, and also faces high crime rates and unemployment, particularly among the young (see Youth and
Development in the Caribbean, World Bank, 2002). The second component of the typical stabilization
program need not be compatible with reducing the pain of the structural adjustment for the poorest and
most vulnerable, and providing an imnpetus to the important target of greater social equity.
7.     The purpose of the emergency rehabilitation loan in this context, was therefore to provide the
necessary protection to the most vulnerable, or at the least, to ensure that social spending is not sacrificed
to the long-run priorities of stabilization and structural reform. The economic rationale behind the provision
of outside support in the face of extemal shocks is outlined in World Bank (2002(a)) See the Caribbean
-32 -



Economic Overview: Macroeconomic Volatility and Household Vulnerability in the Caribbean, World
Bank, 2002..
8.     To summarize, coping with shocks involves three main policy actions: insurance (market based, or
self insurance), self-protection (in the sense of reducing vulnerability to shocks ex ante) and outside support
(loans and grants from the intemational community). Given the nature of the shocks -- economic, as well as
natural disaster related - that hit Jamaica over the last year and a half, neither insurance nor self-protection
could have been sufficient.
9.     To understand the necessity of the World Bank support to the stabilization program, consider the
effect of a temporary shock, such as September 11, on tourism, and hence on output. The comparative
statics based on the standard model described below, suggests that as aggregate demand falls, the currency
depreciates. Given the use of the exchange rate as an inflation anchor, an expansionary monetary policy
would be ineffective in the Jamaican context since it would cause the currency to depreciate further.
10.    Typically, the less flexibility the policy maker allows in the exchange rate, the greater the
effectiveness of fiscal policy. An increase in government spending raises output and interest rates, and
causes the currency to appreciate back to its old level.
11.    However a consideration of fiscal sustainability, and of the current account deficit complicates the
analysis. An increase in government spending that worsens the fiscal deficit and public debt, also worsens
the current account deficit by causing the exchange rate to appreciate. The increase in the interest rate, the
traditional "crowding out effect", hinders the recovery of investor confidence. Considerations of exchange
rate stability must be tempered by the need to maintain flexibility given the adverse trade balance. At the
same time, targeted spending increases are essential to protect the poor from the worst consequences of the
shocks.
12.    This provides the rationale for outside support in the form of the emergency rehabilitation loan.
Given the constraints on Jamaica, a combination of monetary and fiscal policy measures that leaves the
interest rate, inflation and exchange rate stable without throwing debt reduction off-track and cutting social
spending was unlikely in the absence of assistance from the World Bank.
The Standard Model
13.    The standard equilibrium model highlights the links between macroeconomic policy tools, output
and the current account. As is typical with this class of models, prices are assumed to be short-run sticky.
14.    Equation (1) is the standard fonnulation of output market equilibrium, with all variables in logs.
ys =y,d = Cs(yd5sp-e)+ i, +g +TB(e Ydap-able * Ydisposable)    (1)
where y is output, c is consumption (a function of disposable output), i is investment, g is government
spending and TB= x-m is the current account balance, which is a function of output and relative prices,
P/P*. The * superscript refers to the ROW.
15.    Equation (2) is the interest parity condition, predicated on a given nominal exchange rate
expectation and the no arbitrage condition, while equation (3) is the asset market equilibrium condition.
r = r* + (ee-e)/e                                              (2)
- 33 -



M'P = L(r,y)                                                   (3)
where r is the interest rate,
e the exchange rate,
L is the money demand function, and
Ms/P is the money supply.
16.    Given relative prices between home and foreign, we can find all the points for which goods market
is in equilibrium, that is, equation (2) is satisfied. Similarly, given the expected exchange rate, for every y,
we can find some e, such that asset markets are in equilibrium. The combination at which both markets
clear is the equilibrium for the economy. The current account deficit can be found as a function of home
income, the exchange rate and foreign income.
ComDarative Statistics
17.    Note that
dy/de=(dy/dTB). (dTB/de) > 0
i.e., an exchange rate depreciation improves the trade balance;
dTB/dyfd,,awle* >0, dTB/d Ysposable <0
18.    Without assuming explicit functional forms, the government spending multiplier for the small open
economy, can be derived as:
dy/dg = I/(c'-c't'+i'+TB') > 0
where" ' "refers to the first derivative with respect to income, and "t" refers to taxes, and c: t' are both
positive and less than 1.
19.    The impact on interest rates follows from the premnise that the increase in government spending is
bond financed, and that government borrowing competes in the market with private borrowing, to drive up
the cost of loans, i.e., there is a crowding-out effect that forces up interest rates. At the same time, public
debt increases.
20.    As interest rates rise, some of the increase in output is reversed. At the same time, as exchange
rates are assumed to be more or less fixed, they do not respond to re-equilibrate the current account: there
is further "leakage" due to an increase in imports. However the net effect on income is positive, though
smaller due to the trade balanced and crowding out effects. If anything, the impact on exchange rates is
negative, i.e., given exchange rate expectations, there is an appreciation in response to the higher fiscal
deficit, which further reduces the trade balance (or increases the trade deficit). This follows from equation
(2), the interest parity condition.
21.    Now assume that the government spending is financed through outside support. The increase in
interest rates is effectively eliminated or reduced, which minimizes the leakage of increased output The
increase in money supply (which can be sterilized) exerts downward pressure on the exchange rate, which
is desirable given the need to maintain export competitiveness, though this has to be balanced against the
- 34 -



necessity of using the exchange rate as nominal inflation anchor. The support, in the Jamaican context the
US$75 million Emergency Economic Rehabilitation Loan from the World Bank, can be used to cushion the
impact of the shocks on the poor, by enabling the government to stay on track with its fiscal targets,
stabilize output without a firther increase in interest rates, and still not reduce social spending.
-35-



IMAGWO
Repori No.:          25181
Type:      iR



