Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7095-JM
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Economic Rehabilitation Loan)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 21, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7095-JM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 2001, between JAMAICA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated December 6, 2001 from the 
Borrower describing a program (hereinafter called the Program) of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to rehabilitate the Borrower’s economy in the wake of shocks 
caused to such economy by the following events, that is: (a) the terrorist attacks of 
September 11, 2001 in the United States of America; (b) Hurricane Michelle which hit 
the Borrower’s territory on November 3 and 4, 2001; and (c) the outbreaks of violence 
that took place in the City of Kingston in the territory of the Borrower in July 2001 
(such events hereinafter collectively called the Recent Shocks), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in one tranche as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
" ‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made";
(b)
Section 3.08 is modified to read:
"Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall be 
made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is not the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan 
Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the Borrower, 
shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the Loan Account the 
currency of such deposit account as shall be required to deposit the withdrawn 
amount 
into such deposit account."
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions.";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and 
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Bank of Jamaica" means the Borrower’s central bank, as defined in the 
Borrower’s Bank of Jamaica Act;
(b)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
"FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower which commences on April 1 in 
each year and ends on March 31 of the subsequent year, so that FY 2000/2001 means the 
fiscal year commencing April 1, 2000,  FY 2001/20021 means the fiscal year commencing 
April 1, 2001 and FY 2002/2003 means the fiscal year commencing April 1, 2002; 
(d)
"IMF" means International Monetary Fund; and
(e)
"SMP" means Staff Monitored Program, the Borrower’s macroeconomic program 
monitored by staff of the IMF.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seventy five 
million Dollars ($75,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
Page  3
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of seventy four million 
two hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ($74,250,000) from the Loan Account in support 
of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the Bank of 
Jamaica, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan Account (except those set forth in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement) shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. The Borrower agrees that, on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Page  4
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that, unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for 
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
three (3) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date;  Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date February 22, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  5
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Attention: Financial Secretary
30 National Heroes Circle
P.O. Box 512 
Kingston 4, Jamaica
Facsimile:
876-924-9291
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
JAMAICA
By /s/ Seymour Mullings
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
Page  6
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower  having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15
Page  7
Beginning on February 15, 2007 through 
   February 15, 2018
4.17
On August 15, 2018
4.09
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two months prior to any Principal Payment Date 
shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any 
Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the 
date of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph (B)
of the Preamble to this Agreement
1.
As part of its macroeconomic policy framework, the Borrower has adopted a 
program for correcting the emerging macroeconomic imbalances, particularly fiscal, 
resulting from the Recent Shocks as demonstrated by: (a) the satisfactory completion 
by the Borrower and the IMF of a review of the SMP for FY 2001/2002 and agreement 
between the Borrower and the IMF on revised SMP indicators for FY2001/2002, including 
revised fiscal deficit and primary surplus targets; and (b) agreement between the 
Borrower and the IMF to negotiate a SMP for FY 2002/2003.
2.
The Borrower has, since the start of FY 2001/2002, maintained real expenditures 
for immunization and key maternal and infant/child health programs at levels equal to 
at least those it maintained in FY2000/2001 and has made a commitment to maintain such 
levels for the rest of FY2001/2002 and for FY2002/2003.
3.
The Borrower’s Cabinet has approved a strategy and work plan for dealing with 
HIV/AIDS.
Page  8
4.
The Borrower has, since the start of FY 2001/2002, maintained non-salary 
recurrent expenditures for public sector education in Preschool through Grade 6 at 
levels equal in real terms to at least those it maintained in FY2000/2001 and has made 
a commitment to maintain such levels for the rest of 2001/2002 and for FY 2002/2003.
5.
All public sector secondary schools in the territory of the Borrower have 
commenced distribution of core textbooks to all students in Grades Seven, Eight and 
Nine, including to those who have not paid the rental fees for said books.
6.
The Borrower has prepared the action plan known as the "Action Plan for Tourism" 
dated December 4, 2001 for a tourism promotion strategy aimed at: (a) diversifying and 
expanding its client base in North America and Europe; and (b) complementing the 
initiative led by the Caribbean Tourism Organization for the promotion of tourism to 
the Caribbean.
7.
The Borrower has prepared a fully funded plan to improve airport security at the 
Norman Manley International Airport and Sangster International Airport.
8.
Both houses of the Borrower’s Parliament have passed The Public Bodies 
Management and Accountability Act 2001.
9.
The Borrower has implemented the key recommendations referred to in the Country 
Financial Accountability Assessment, dated April 25, 2001, prepared by the World Bank, 
including the following: 
(a)
introduced accrual accounting for financial reporting in eight executive 
agencies;
(b)
transferred its Financial Management Information System, known as FMIS, 
to the public sector firm known as Fiscal Services Limited;
(c)
upgraded its budget information system, known as JABIS,  to improve 
budgetary format and reporting;
(d)
strengthened the internal audit capability of its Central Government 
through provision of training, computer and other equipment, standardized working 
papers and quarterly reviews;
(e)
established audit committees in the ministries of Industry and Commerce, 
Agriculture, Finance, Education and Transport and Works; and 
(f)
strengthened the capability of its Auditor General to conduct computer 
assisted audits.
10.
The Borrower’s Cabinet has approved a policy paper for strengthening public 
sector procurement.
11.
The Borrower’s Attorney General’s Department has completed a review of the 
legislative amendments required to be made to the Borrower’s statutes in order for 
such statutes to address offences related to tax evasion and the financing of 
terrorist activities in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolutions 
1373 and 1377.
12.
The Borrower has established, and adequately resourced, a financial crimes unit 
to investigate and prosecute money-laundering offences, all in a manner acceptable to 
the Bank.
