Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  15252
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 2819-TU)
DECEMBER 31, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 30, 1995)
CLrrency Unit -            Turkish Lira
1987 (average) -           TL 857                            US$ 1.00
1988 (average) -           TL 1,422             =            US$ 1.00
1989 (average) -           TL 2,127             =            US$ 1.00
1990 (average) -           TL 2,608             =            US$ 1.00
1991 (average) -           TL 4,171             =            US$ 1.00
1992 (average) -           TL 6,872             =            US$ 1.00
1993 (average) -           TL 10,984            =            US$ 1.00
1994 (average) -           TL 29,608            =            US$ 1.00
June 30. 1995 -            TL 43,888            =             US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                                        US System
I hectare (10,000 square meters)                -            2.47 acres
1 meter                                         -            39.37 inches
I square meter                                  -             10.76 square feet
I cubic meter                                   -            264 US gallons
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January Ist to December 31st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CUEP         -      Cukurova Region Urban Engineering Project
CUDP         -      Cukurova Region Urban Development Project
HUDC         -      Housing and Urban Development Companies
ICR          -      Implementation  Completion Report
MESKI        -      Mersin Metropolitan Municipality Water & Sanitation Directorate
PCU          -      Project Coordination Unit (for CUEP Project)
PRIMU        -      Project Review. Implementation  and Management Unit
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
SPO          -      State Planning Organization
UEA          -      Urban Expansion Area



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 2819-TU)
CONTENTS
Preface ..............................................................                                          i
Evaluation  Summary  ......................................................... ii
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment                                       ..                             I
A       Objectives and Project Description  - Evaluztion  of Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Objectives.                                                                        2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                                              4
D. Sustainability.                                                                                    6
E. Bank Performance.                                                                                  6
F. Borrower Performance.                                                                              7
G. Assessment of Outcome.                                                                             8
H. Future Operation.                                                                                  8
1. Key Lessons Learned                                             .9
PART  II. Statistical Tables ................................................... 10
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments    ........................................ 11
Table 2:  Related  Bank Loans   ............................................ 12
Table 3:  Project Timetable   .............................................   14
Table 4:  Loan/Credit  Disbursements:  Cumulative  Estimated  and Actual   ....                   ...... 14
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ........................... 15
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation    ............................... 16
Table 7:  Studies Included  in Project   ....................................... 17
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................... 18
Table 8B:       Project Financing          ...................           .......................  19
Table 9A: Economic Rate of Return  - Water and Sanitation  ....... ..                     ............. 20
Table 9B: Economic Rate of Return  - Urban Extension Areas   .......                      ............. 21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants   ........................................ 22
Table 11: Compliance  with Operational  Manual Statements   ...................... 26
Table 12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs  ..................................... 27
Table 13: Bank Resources:  Missions   ....................................... 28
Appendices:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Statement of Loan Account by Disbursement Department
D. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Baank authorization.



i
I
I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 2819-TU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cukurova Urban Development
Project in Turkey, for which Loan No. 2819-TU in the amount of US$120.0 million equivalent was
approved on June 12, 1987 and made effective on January 28, 1988.
The loan was amended on August 9, 1991 and reduced from US$120.0 million to US$28.5
million.
The amended loan was closed on June 30, 1995, after two extensions of the closing date. It was
fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on May 11, 1995. The Special Account for the
loan was closed on June 6, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Pascal Douard (Infrastructure Operations Division of Country
Department I, Europe and Central Asia Region) and reviewed by Ricardo Halperin, Division Chief
and by George Zaidan, Project Adviser (EC 1). The Borrower provided comments that are included
as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
April 3 to April 6 and April 16 to April 19, 1995. It is based on material in the project file. The
Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's
Aide-Memoire, and by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial
preparation.



I
i
II



(ii)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 2819-TU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.     The Cukurova Urban Development Project (CUDP) was designed to help the Government
of Turkey meet the urban growth challenge in the south region of Cukurova by devolving
responsibilities for muncipal services to the municipalities of Adana, Ceyhan, Iskenderun, Mersin,
and Tarsus. CUDP had been prepared from 1985 to 1987 under the Cukurova Urban Engineering
Project (CUEP), a US$13.2 million Bank project, which attempted to set up the infrastructure and
institutional arrangements necessary to efficiently manage land development and provide municipal
services in the area. The Government's 1984 policy objectives which CUEP and CUDP supported
were to decentralize responsibilities for urban planning and provision of services to municipalities,
improve local administration, provide adequate infrastructure and services, and reduce housing
shortages.
2.     By 1987, the Bank had tried two different approaches to urban investment and institutional
reform  in Turkey, the sector approach and the integrated approach.  The sector approach had
concentrated on water and sanitation projects, through a water supply project (1972) and a sewerage
project (1982) in Istanbul, and a water and sanitation project (1987) in Izmir. The Istanbul projects
had been reasonably successful and led to institutional innovations subsequently duplicated in other
towns of Turkey.  The integrated approach, tried in Istanbul in 1972, had not led to any major
investment. It was however a comprehensive approach, and therefore an appealing one, and both
the Bank and the Government of Turkey hoped to avoid a similar failure in CUDP through
intensive preparation financed under CUEP.
Project Objectives
3.     According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the project objectives were to:
(a)   assist the municipalities to overcome service deficiencies and manage urban growth
by financing urban infrastructure;
(b)  introduce municipal policies and institutional arrangements which would be suitable
for replication in other Turkish cities for investment planning and implementation,
cost recovery, financial management, and staff development; and
(c)   build up a capacity in Iller Bank to appraise and monitor municipal infrastructure
projects and investments programs.
4.     The US$389 million base cost infrastructure program (US$467 million with contingencies,
technical assistance, and national components) consisted of eight components of which US$162
million were for urban development related investments, and US$227 million for citywide
infrastructure, mainly water and sanitation. Cost recovery obligations and counterpart financing
availability were specified in the covenants of the project, which also asked for the implementation
of a new municipal cost accounting system. In 1991, four years after Board approval, in response
to an unsuccessful project implementation experience, the project was restructured and the loan
downsized from USS120 million to US$28.5 million, and the objectives narrowed to the completion



(iii)
of thirty six on-going contracts.
5.      Although the objectives of the project were sound, they were too ambitious and not fully
endorsed by the municipalities or by Iller Bank. The project was developed by the State Planning
Organization (SPO) without adequate participation by the beneficiary municipalities or by the
municipal development bank (Iller Bank), which then played a major role in financing urban
infrastructure. Municipalities were unable to assimilate such an ambitious program  in the time
framne that was considered. In addition, Iller Bank's top management did not want to change the
role of Iller Bank as envisioned under the project, and did not want municipalities to be responsible
for implementing their infrastructure programs either. On these two important aspects, this ICR
concludes that the risks of the project had been identified, but not properly appraised.  The
restructuring of the project was therefore necessary to transform it into an operation with much
more limited objectives.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.      The project achieved only very partially its original objectives. After restructuring, the
project cost decreased from US$467 million to US$69 million. Iskenderun, Mersin and Tarsus
remained involved in the project, whereas Adana remained involved only to a very limited extent
and Ceyhan withdrew from the project. National regulations and lack of political commitment to
change them hampered  the envisaged municipality strengthening, limited the hiring of high level
staff and delayed the implementation of a new accounting system. Iller Bank remained devoted to
its traditional role and did not transform itself into a development bank. Infrastructure financed
under the loan was mainly urban infrastructure, especially water and sanitation.  The housing
component was hardly implemented, except for two urban extension areas in Mersin and Tarsus.
7.      The project did achieve most of the much more modest objectives agreed upon during
restructuring.  Municipalities gained valuable experience  in project management  through its
implementation. The final cost of the project was US$62 million, compared to a forecast of US$69
million (including US$5 million of contingencies).  Municipalities and Iller Bank fulfilled their
financing commitnments.  Before restructuring, the project had been running behind schedule and
had come to a virtual standstill. After restructuring, the pace accelerated.  However it was still
completed two years later than originally expected, because of custom clearance delays, adverse
weather conditions for the construction of the sea outfall, and time needed to obtain approval for
municipal investments by SPO.
8.      The unsuccessful implementation  of the original project was due to several reasons:
(a)   The ownership of and the support to the project were very weak: SPO strongly
supported the project and developed it with the assistance of consultants but it then
handed it over to the municipalities and the project management unit who had not
been deeply involved in the preparation. In 1989, municipal elections resulted in a
local leadership that had campaigned against the project;
(b)   The Government of Turkey did not approve rapidly the key reforms necessary for
project success, including authorization to the municipalities to follow the Bank's
procurement rules, to implement new accounting practices, or to hire professional
staff at market salaries;
(c)   fIler Bank's top management was opposed to the project, and therefore the Project
Review, Implementation and Management Unit (PRIMU) within the bank was not
motivated to efficiently manage it. In addition, PRIMU did not have adequate
authority to coordinate the various investment projects of the municipalities, and
therefore could not prevent the implementation of projects which were incompatible
with CUDP; and



(iv)
(d)   The scope of the project had nearly doubled during project preparation  and some
of the project designs and documents were not completed or approved when the
loan was signed.
9.      The Bank and the Borrower's performance were unsatisfactory in preparing, appraising,
and implementing the project. The Bank and the Borrower prepared the project with the view that
it would help to transform municipal finance. Such a reform would have yielded huge benefits. The
Bank, however, was too optimistic in its appraisal of risks.  It should have waited for key
institutional actions before approving the project, and should have given more careful consideration
to the risks of designing a very complex operation, diluting the core of the project. The issue of
lack of ownership failed to be identified. The management unit of the project in its early years was
too weak to achieve a rapid start-up. After these shortcomings became apparent, the Bank and the
Borrower took the right decision in restructuring a highly problematic project to transform it into
a project with limited success. After restructuring, the municipalities and PRIMU became more
involved in the project, and their performance was satisfactory. The Resident Mission's involvement
helped to provide a quick response to meet client needs.
10.    The outcome of the project is unsatisfactory compared to its initial objectives, because
major objectives were dropped during its implementation, such as the housing component, the
participation of Adana and Ceyhan, or the transformation of Iller Bank. However, the restructured
project met its more modest goals.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
11.    The outcome of this project stresses the need for strong local ownership and of realistic
implementation schedules. To launch an innovative operation, the ownership of the project may be
limited at the national level to some key people or institutions; however, the ownership of the local
government in charge of its implementation is a prerequisite for its success. Ensuring the realism
of key institutional arrangements before loan signature, involving the project management units in
project preparation, and ensuring ownership of different tiers of administration are necessary
prerequisites for success. This project also shows that restructuring an unsatisfactory project can
help secure some worthwhile, albeit more limited, objectives.
12.    Infrastructure built under the loan will be operated by the municipal departments or, for
water and sewerage infrastructure built in Mersin, by the water and sanitation metropolitan
authorities (MESKI). Successful operation and maintenance requires adequate financial resources,
and in the current inflationary environment this in turn requires frequent tariff adjustments.
Revenues are today hampered by a high percentage of unaccounted for water, which could be
decreased in the future through leakage repair programs and improved collection of bills. However
the extent to which the municipal authorities influence decision making at the utility level is high,
and is sometimes motivated by short term political concerns. For these reasons, the sustainability
of the project's achievements remains an open question.
13.    Bank support for urban development is certainly appropriate in Turkey in view of a large
backlog of unmet needs and a high growth rate of population, particularly in medium-size cities.
Three key components  for the success of such operations are:  (i) political conmmitment to
implement those reforns necessary for efficiency and sustainability; (ii) local ownership; and (iii)
focused objectives and simplicity of project design.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 2819-TU)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.     Obiectives and Proiect DescriRtion - Evaluation of Objectives
1.     The Cukurova Urban Development Project (CUDP) was primarily designed to help the
Governnent of Turkey to meet the urban growth challenge in the south region of Cukurova by
devolving responsibilities for municipal investments to local governments. A prior operation, the
Cukurova Urban Engineering Project (CUEP), approved in 1985, had resulted in the preparation
of infrastructure  and urban areas expansion designs.  It had also included proposals for
strengthening local government's capabilities and for introducing changes in the functions of local
governments vis-a-vis those of central government institutions. Two years later, CUEP developed
into CUDP which was to implement CUEP proposals in five municipalities of the Cukurova region:
Adana, Ceyhan, Iskenderun, Mersin and Tarsus. Land development and infrastructure would be
financed by the loan, with a strong involvement of local authorities.
2.     According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), dated April 17,1987, the project objectives
were to:
(a)   assist the municipalities of Adana, Mersin, Tarsus, Iskenderun, and Ceyhan to
overcome service deficiencies and manage urban growth through the financing of
urban infrastructure;
(b)  introduce municipal policies and institutional arrangements which would be suitable
for replication in other Turkish cities, for investment planning and implementation,
cost recovery, financial management, and staff development; and
(c)   build up a capacity in Iller Bank to appraise and monitor municipal infrastructure
projects and investments programs.  At that time, Iller Bank designed and
implemented projects on behalf on municipalities, financing them with resources
derived from the municipal share of national revenues. Under these arrangements
local ownership was low, and the incentives were to overdesign projects. CUEP
sought to transform Iller Bank into a development bank that would appraise the
financial and economic viability of projects but would not design or implement
them. CUDP was to finance the technical assistance and the computer system
needed by Iller Bank to transform itself.
The SAR also provided a detailed description of the US$467 million infrastructure program to be
financed under the project. This program was broken up into eight components: urban expansion
areas (UEA), housing management areas, gecekondul upgrading, water supply, sanitation, drainage,
1 Spontaneous and uncontrolled housing development



2
solid waste management and transportation.  Construction of this infrastructure appeared in the
Loan Agreement as an explicit objective of the project.
3.     However, two years after loan signature, only two work contracts had been signed and the
project was rated highly unsatisfactory. Therefore, in 1991, the Government and the Bank agreed
that the only viable course was to set more limited objectives for the project and to drastically
reduce and restructure its physical components. The loan was downsized from US$120 million to
US$28.5 million by focusing on the civil works which had already been started. Restated objectives,
as described in the amendment to the loan agreement dated August 9, 1991, were to:
(a)   assist the municipalities to overcome service deficiencies and to manage urban
growth; and
(b)   finance certain  specific municipal investments  under appropriate  institutional
arrangements  for planning  and  implementation,  cost recovery  and  financial
management.
4.      Although the original objectives were sound, they were overly ambitious and had not been
adequately discussed with, nor endorsed by, the municipalities and Iller Bank. Municipalities lacked
experience in planning and implementing their own investments. They were unable to assimilate
such an ambitious, complex, and multisectoral institutional reform program in the time frame that
was allocated. The proposed institutional schemes required close and effective coordination to
overcome the fragmentation  of authority on the issues expected to be addressed.  Because the
investment program was double the size recommended at an earlier stage in CUEP (US$ 211
million), designs were incomplete at the beginning of the project (e.g. gecekondu upgrading areas),
and the program  exceeded the financial capacity of the municipalities.  Moreover, Adana and
Ceyhan were not convinced that their interest was to be part of the project for good reasons: until
then, municipal works had been largely constructed by Iller Bank, using tax participation revenues,
and had not imposed a debt-servicing burden on the municipalities; so the notion of borrowing on
market terms was very new and its advantages debatable. Finally, Iller Bank did not agree upon
its new proposed role of financial intermediary.  Until today, Iller Bank has kept its dual role of
both designing works and contracting them out, handing over to municipalities a "finished product",
and intermediating in a mandatory fashion tax participation revenues. Iller Bank wished to retain
its control over public works engineering and implementation, while keeping the municipalities
dependent on it. Tller Bank being the implementing agency, it should have been expected that the
project would run into difficulties.
5.      After project restructuring, the revised objectives were achievable but too modest to
provide the necessary infrastructure for cities experiencing rates of growth of 6% per year. The new
loan objectives had the advantage of being realistic and to transform the Cukurova Urban
Development Project into a partial success.   They, however, were an incomplete answer to the
challenge of urban growth.
B.      Achievement of Objectives
6.      The project achieved only partially its original objectives. National regulations and lack of
a political consensus to change them constrained municipal administration strengthening (see
para.7). Iller Bank remained focused on implementing civil works, rather than appraising projects.
Many investments originally planned were not completed  under the project.  The degree of
achievement varied, depending  on the municipalities  and the sector involved.  Investments



3
implemented by Tarsus represent 40% of the initial figure of the SAR, whereas Ceyhan did not stay
within the project. Water and sanitation primary infrastructure investments were built to a great
extent in the municipalities that remained part of the project, whereas gecekondu upgrading was not
carried out. The restructured project was implemented as agreed, except the road component in
Mersin, which was a relatively minor component
7.      Sector Policies - NegligibleAchievement. The project sought to increase the role of local
governments in the provision and financing of local infrastructure. This goal has been supported
by the Ministry of Interior for the last ten years. However, its achievement is still constrained by
a number of regulations: municipal investments have to be approved by SPO; the municipalities are
not free to hire high level staff who could be responsible for planning and implementing
infrastructure at market salaries; cost recovery policies are limited by regulations and pricing
decisions are influenced by short-term political concerns; finally, the amount of financing that the
municipalities can borrow to finance local infrastructure is severely constrained.
8.      Financial Objectives - PartialAchievement. Municipalities subscribed to the concept of cost
recovery, but failed to fully adopt it: revenues raised through water and sanitation tariffs and local
contribution to investments remain insufficient to finance the infrastructure investments needed.
Major financial objectives were for the municipalities to be able to (i) mobilize enough funds from
different sources to finance land development and infrastructure, (ii) finance their share of
investments through surpluses of the recurrent budget and the existing revenue-sharing programs,
with loans from Iller Bank remaining at the same per capita level, (iii) appraise the projects and
elaborate three year investment programs, and (iv) implement sound cost recovery policies.
Mobilizing financing was never the major constraint of the project, except for land acquisition.
There was no lack of funds, either from Iller Bank, or from the municipalities to finance their part
of the project. The other aims were much more difficult to achieve. The first years of project
implementation demonstrated that, without appropriate accounting system, it was nearly impossible
to appraise projects financially and to implement cost recovery policies. Moreover, municipalities
and PRIMU were not familiar with these concepts. Housing Urban Development Companies
(HUDCs), which were in charge of developing infrastructure for urban expansion areas on a self-
financing basis, largely ignored them. During restructuring, the objective of an annual increase of
water tariffs of 10% above inflation was covenanted, which made financial targets easier to monitor.
Mersin and Iskenderun satisfied this requirement, whereas Tarsus, which had the highest tariffs, did
not.
9.     Institutional Development - Negligible Achievement.   Municipalities  gained  valuable
experience through project implementation, but municipal strengthening was not conducte. to the
extent expected under the project. Law No 2560 has established independent water and sanitation
departments in Mersin and Adana, whereas elsewhere they were reintegrated within other municipal
services. The project recommended to recruit about 200 high level staff for the five municipalities,
but existing regulations constraining the number and the salaries of high level staff made it
impossible. Therefore, the key function of planning and budgeting investments is still not adequately
staffed. The project also recommended a new accounting system. After long discussions, the
Ministry of Interior finally implemented its own new system. The municipalities were not pleased
with the training financed under the project, arguing that the consultants had not tailored it to their
needs.  However, implementing  the Cukurova Urban Loan Development project gave to the
municipalities some practical knowledge of project management, procurement and supervision alld
this will be a positive outcome of the project.
10.    The project did not transform  Iller Bank into a development bank. Staff and managenwrnr



4
of Iller Bank, most of them engineers, whose career are linked to its traditional operations, did not
understand and were generally hostile to such a concept. CUEP suggestions were never discussed
during the project implementation and this objective was dropped during the restructuring phase.
Presently, Iller Bank management is exploring some changes to its role and functions, to align it
closer to those of a development bank, and recently the Bank has restarted its dialogue with Iller
Bank on the subject, though no new lending through them is planned.
11     Physical Objectives - Partial Achievement.  Physical objectives were partially achieved.
Investments were financed in Mersin (US$27 million instead of $109 million forecasted in the SAR),
Iskenderun (US$14 million instead of $62 million), and Tarsus (US$16 million instead of $51
million).  Investments  were not financed  in Ceyhan and Adana although in the SAR both
municipalities  had appeared  with a significant share of the project (US$172 million).  The
investments were mainly used for urban expansion areas (235 ha developed in Mersin and Tarsus
at a cost of US$10 million instead of 445 ha at a cost of US$54 million planned in Mersin, Tarsus
and Iskenderun), water and sanitation (US$35 million instead of $64 million, comprising a
stabilization pond in Tarsus, a sea outfall in Mersin, and 104 km of main sewers and pumping
stations), solid waste management, drainage and roads (US$9 million instead of $45 million,
comprising solid waste equipment and a bridge in Tarsus). Some of the infrastructure planned was
built outside CUDP financing between 1988 and 1991. Urban expansion areas in Mersin and
Iskenderun were developed with Mass Housing Fund subsidies and financing; the high density
blocks built did not match the low income people affordability criteria of the SAR. Iller Bank built
a sewerage network in Ceyhan and Adana, outside the project, incompatible with CUEP designs.
12.    Economic Rates of Return. Economic rates of return (ERR) had been calculated in the
SAR for water and sanitation, urban expansion areas, and transportation components. For water
and sanitation, benefits were estimated as the marginal value of incremental water consumed, plus
access benefits paid in the form of connection fees. Ex post evaluation in the case of Mersin shows
an internal rate of return of 7.15%, versus an initial estimation of 8.9%. This ex post evaluation
following the SAR methodology is meaningless in the case of Tarsus and Iskenderun, where, due
to constraints on water resources, water sales with the project are lower than estimated water sales
without the project. For urban expansion areas, ERR represented 15.6% in Mersin and 9.4% in
Tarsus, and were calculated by comparing the value of the equipped and non equipped land (rentals
values giving a proxy for land values).  Ex post evaluation for Mersin suggests ERR of 22%, but
part of it is probably due to a general increase in the value of land. Ex post evaluation for Tarsus
could not be calculated for lack of precise data. ERR for transportation investments, originally 28%
on average, have not been recalculated ex post in the absence of traffic data. ERR for the other
components of the project were not estimated in the SAR. By and large, the view of the municipal
authorities and the available information are consistent with the view that the physical components
that were implemented were economically justified.
C.      Maior Factors Affecting the Project
13.    Project Restructuring. At the end of 1989, the project was rated highly unsatisfactory.
Disbursements from the special account only amounted to less than US$1 million in June 1989,
more than two years after project approval.    Th,e poor record in project implementation  had
several origins:
(a)   The ownership and support for the project were weak: SPO strongly supported the
project. SPO had however employed consultants to prepare the project and then
handed it over to the municipalities and the Project Management Unit who had not



5
been deeply involved in the preparation.  In 1989, elections resulted in local
leadership who had been campaigning against the project and had not a good
knowledge of the project. In summary, there was a total lack of ownership by the
supposed beneficiaries;
(b)   The Government of Turkey did not approve key reforms necessary for the project's
success, such as the possibility for the municipalities to adopt the Bank's
procurement rules (allowing exceptions to Turkish Law 2886), to implement new
accounting practices and to hire high level staff at market salaries, and did not press
Iller Bank to reform itself. Controls remained over local decisions on finance,
investments, procurement, and staff employment;
(c)   Iller Bank was expected to play a key role in project implementation, largely acting
as an apex institution to which the Bank would delegate some of its supervision
responsibilities. However, Iller Bank's top management was opposed to the project,
and did not adequately staff and organize PRIMU at the beginning of
implementation.  Iller Bank added to the existing constraints in project funding by
deducting the cost of project management from the share of government revenues
to be given to municipalities, or by offering to municipalities less favorable onlending
conditions than those they could obtain for Iller Bank implemented projects.
PRIMU was never in a position to coordinate the various investment projects of the
municipalities, and  to prevent the implementation  of projects which were
incompatible with CUDP. PRIMU did not prevent Adana and Ceyhan from
choosing solutions for sewage which were not compatible with the project design.
The Mass Housing Fund financed a number of high density development in Mersin
in contradiction with the project guidelines. Project management difficulties were
exacerbated by conflicts between PRIMU and the consultants it had hired for the
municipal projects at the beginning of the implementation phase. PRIMU confined
the consultants to report writing and often duplicated their work; and
(d)   The size of the project had nearly doubled during project preparation and some of
the designs and documents were not completed or had not yet been approved when
the loan was signed. Gecekondu upgrading areas designs had not yet been available.
Land acquisition had been expected to be done in three months, while experience
worldwide shows that it is generally a long and difficult process. The Bank must be
faulted for allowing this, since it should have been evident that it would result in
implementation problems and delays.
14.    In 1990, the World Bank and the Borrower considered options to improve performance
and decided not to cancel the project but to drastically restructure and downsize it. They agreed that
the investment program would concentrate on on-going contracts and high priority items at an
advanced stage of preparation. The loan amount was reduced from US$120 million to US$28.5
million. Ceyhan municipality then withdrew from the project. The "area-based urban development"
components were dropped, except 235 ha of urban expansion for which contracts had been signed
before restructuring. After restructuring, the project was satisfactorily implemented, although with
some delays. The total cost of the project is slightly lower than expected (US$62 million versus
US$69 million), because some civil works contracts (Mersin roads and secondary sewerage network)
were not financed under the loan. On the other hand, the goods purchased under the loan
(US$13.7 million) represent a higher share than originally forecasted (US$7.6 million plus
contingencies). The restructuring advanced the original closing date from June 30, 1995 to June 30,



6
1993, but lengthy custom clearances and bad weather conditions delayed implementation of the
Mersin sea outfall. As a result, two one-year extensions of the closing date were subsequently
necessary.
D.      Sustainability
15.     Uncertain. Due to the effective participation of the municipalities in the operation of the
investments financed under the loan', unless unforeseen financial constraints arise, it seems likely
that the project would maintain  its achievements, which as noted earlier are modest.  The
equipment financed under the loan is performing adequately, except the leaking detection
equipment. The civil works are also working well, in spite of some minor flaws (the sewage system
in Mersin is not totally separated and would require a grit chamber; the diluted effluent arriving
at Tarsus pond shows groundwater intrusion into the sewers).  However, the ability of the
municipalities to cover cost of operation and maintenance and to finance the remaining investments
(especially the secondary sewerage collection network at a cost of US$50 million in each city)
remains an open question and will be a key issue to ensure future sustainability of the project; due
to the high pace of inflation and the influence of short term political considerations in pricing
decisions, the risk of an erosion of utility revenues in real terms remains a permanent concern.
16.    There is no sewerage treatment plant in Iskenderun and Mersin (the sewerage is discharged
into the sea through an outfall in Mersin, without outfall in Iskenderun).  Both municipalities
envisage constructing a treatment plant in the future. Mersin has earmarked and reserved the land
necessary for the construction of this plant. Tarsus, Mersin and Iskenderun have also projects to
create landfills (at a cost of US$25 million). In the coming years, Mersin's composting plant and
current landfill will be surrounded by housing units. Mersin has planned to create a common
landfill with Tarsus, which has none. The urban development areas financed under the project are
currently constructed and there is no problem of integration with the other parts of Tarsus and
Mersin.
E.      Bank Performance
17.    Project dentification: Satisfactory. The Bank correctly diagnosed and identified the critical
need to address deficiencies in municipal infrastructure and management, as well as some of the
policy issues affecting the efficiency of investments in municipal infrastructure, at a time when there
was high level political support for decentralization.   The Borrower strongly supported the project
and saw this as the way to totally transform municipal finance. The project had the potential to
yield large benefits.
18.     ProjectPreparation:Deflcient. During preparation, the Bank did not identify the key issues
that needed to be addressed to achieve project success. The Bank should have conditioned its
approval of CUDP to implementation of key institutional reforms, including reform of Iller Bank.
In addition, municipal reorganization plans and municipal accounting changes should have been
required early on, and procurement issues should have been resolved before Board presentation.
Although this was considered, it was felt at the time that such a delay would risk losing the interest
of the municipalities. However, the interest of the municipalities was already uncertain, given the
time spent (3 years) in the preparation of the project, and their lack of direct involvement in project
design. The size of the project doubled during its preparation, from US$211 million to US$420
million, without adequate consideration of the added complexity and ensuing risks this caused,
resulting in several components remaining at an early stage of preparation.  The Bank did not
involve Iller Bank, the future executive agency for CUDP, in the preparation of the project, and this



7
resulted in lack of ownership once the project was approved.
19.    Project Appraisal: Deficent.  During appraisal the Bank did not take into account the
various risks that could affect the project, and as a result did not suggest measures to contain or
mitigate them. The Bank was overly optimistic about the pace at which the project could be
implemented, including the Government's ability to promote institutional objectives such as
municipal reorganization, new accounting systems, and reform of Iller Bank. The Bank also
overestimated the capacity of all the agencies involved, and in particular of the municipalities to
implement such a complex project. The Bank should have adjusted the objectives and the scope
of CUDP and its administrative arrangements to reflect the high risks it identified before and
during CUEP. The SAR noted the difficulty of making simultaneous improvements in several fields
in five municipalities, the risk that the project management unit staffed by Iller Bank would not be
able to fulfill its key role, the political risks relating to the municipalities' commitment to project
objectives and the Central Government commitment to decentralization. In reviewing CUDP, the
Loan Committee felt that the project design developed under CUEP was too ambitious and that
fewer components could still provide the desired municipal focus but the project was not
substantially reshaped. While these institutional and managerial risks were recognized, it was felt
that reducing the number of components or the size of the project would compromise the
operation's urban identity, the scale of the Bank loan, or the need for a highly visible operation to
increase the probability of replication. Deleting the UEA component might have jeopardized some
mayors' interest in CUDP given their strong interest in housing investments.
20.    Supervision: Satisfactory. The Bank identified early the difficulties of the project and
adequately chose with the Borrower to restructure it. Bank supervision missions adequately warned
management that the project was not being implemented as expected. Implementation problems
such as the lack of commitment of Ceyhan and Adana to the project, or the tense relationship
between Iller Bank and its consultant were adequately reported. The supervision missions, however,
did not succeed in speeding up project implementation but it would not be reasonable to fault them
for this, as it probably was not possible. Restructuring the project was the right decision, as shown
by the difference in the course of the implementation before and after the restructuring took place.
Since the project was restructured, relationship with the implementing agency improved,
disbursements followed plans although with a slight delay, and the smaller project was successfully
implemented.  The Resident Mission contributed to the success of this restructured  project by
assisting the five successive task managers at Headquarters to supervise the implementation and
to review  procurement  matters.   No significant deviations  from  the Bank rules regarding
procurement or disbursements occurred during the life of the project.
F.      Borrower Performance
21.    Preparation of the Project: Deficent. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in charge of
project preparation failed to build a consensus and a stakeholder commitment around CUDP.
Although it was under the responsibility of the State Planning Organization, it was entirely staffed
with consultants who did not manage to operate through the steering committee which had been
established to control CUEP. The PCU did not manage to obtain either Government's approval of
municipal reorganization plans, new accounting standards developed during CUEP, or a reform plan
for Iller Bank, thus compromising key institutional objectives. However, the decision to demobilize
the PCU and transfer the full responsibility to Iller Bank was premature, particularly in the absence
of an agreed reform program or oversight for Iller Bank itself.
22.    Project Implementation before Restrucfuring: Deficient. The Project Management Unit and



8
the municipalities were not able to get the project off the ground. PRIMU was staffed with Iller
Bank's personnel who had not been involved in the preparation of the project and whose
management was not committed to the success of the operation and resented the programred
transformation  of Iller Bank   role. In the meantime, the municipalities  had difficulties in
transforming themselves by recruiting adequate staff, reorganizing their administration, adopting
new accounting principles, and creating housing and water and sanitation entities.  Adana and
Ceyhan had to be convinced to participate in the project. PRIMU maintained poor relationships
with the municipalities, which were making Iller Bank responsible for the slow implementation of
the project. Iller Bank also had conflicts with the consultants it had hired and terminated their
contract at the end of June 1990 in a very abrupt way.
23.     Project Implementation  after Restructuring: Satisfactory.  Since the restructuring, local
municipal coordinators and new people in the Project Management Unit succeeded in implementing
the project in a satisfactory way. Contractors' and consultants' work was satisfactory. Counterpart
funding was provided in due time. The Government provided audits of the accounts. PRIMU has
played its role of coordinating, accounting and supervising the project. However, a geographical
relocation of PRIMU to Adana and a redefinition of PRIMU's tasks after restructuring would have
helped to better monitor the performance of the project.
G.       Assessment of Outcome
24.     Overall Rating: Unsatisfactory. Rated according to its original objectives, and in spite of
partial achievements under the restructured loan, the Cukurova Urban Development Project results
are unsatisfactory. It failed to achieve major objectives, i.e.,development of a replicable model for
urban development and provision of services financed by local resources, the transformation of Iller
Bank into a development bank, and the participation of Adana and Ceyhan municipalities in the
project.
H.      Future Operation
25.     Operation Plan. The operational plan focuses on water and sanitation, which is where most
of the funds under the restructured project were invested. The following matters will remain a
source of concern:
(a)   Independence  of water and sanitation departments: in Mersin, MESKI has been
created under Law 3030, providing an autonomous organization for water and
sanitation services. In Tarsus and Iskenderun, the water and sanitation departments
are part of the municipal services. However, in the three cities, the concern refers
to possible political interference in day to day decisions;
(b)   Efficiency of water supply and sewerage department: the number of staff per 1,000
connections is around 3 in Mersin, and 4.4 in Tarsus and Iskenderun. Such figures
and other performance indicators should be monitored regularly and compared to
other municipalities. Antalya and Mersin will provide comparisons of private sector
achievements;
(c)   Preparation of budgets and tariff adjustnients: budgets for the coming years, should
be carefully prepared (capacity to do this is weak), and tariff adjustments calculated
to finance operating costs, maintenance costs and debt services. Due to the high
pace of inflation, frequent adjustments will be necessary;



9
(d)   Network management: network mapping is a necessity, and measurements  of flows
and concentration in the sewerage network would provide useful indications
regarding the performance of the network, possible leakages of sewerage outside the
network, or intrusion of clean water within the sewerage network;
(e)    Consumer register updating and billing collection: in order not to loose revenues, it
is necessary to update periodically the consumer register and to check the accuracy
of meters; and
(f)    Reduction of losses: given the figure of unaccounted for water (around 50%) in the
three cities, a leakage detection and repair program is probably economically well
justified.
26.     Follow-up by the Bank. No follow-up operation  is planned by the Bank in Mersin, Tarsus,
and Iskenderun, whereas Adana is one of the cities selected for a low income housing project under
preparation. Monitoring further the limited outcomes of the Cukurova Urban Development Project
does not appear to be a priority.
1.      Key Lessons Learned
27.     Ensure Local Project Ownership. In the case of projects involving local governments, the
Bank should make sure of their ownership of the project. For this purpose, the local governments
should be involved in the preparation of the project, and they should benefit from their participation
in the project. The implementation agency should also strongly be committed to the success of the
project.
28.      Appraise the Risks, and Seek to Contain and Mitigate Them. Appraising the risks that may
affect a project should not be limited to identifying them, but also requires assessing the likelihood
of their occurrence. If the risks are too high, the project design must be adjusted to reduce them.
One way of reducing risks is to require that important actions involving legal or institutional changes
be made before the project is presented to the Board, or to divide the projects into several
successive projects, each one focused on more limited specific issues.
29.     Strive for Simplicity. This project demonistrates  that simple projects have much better
chances of success than complicated ones. Trying to change everything at once, as, to a large extent,
the original CUDP sought, proved to be unattainable. The original project was complicated because
it was multisectoral (main utilities, urban development, and transportation), dealt with five cities,
and sought to implement reforms at two tiers of administration (national level, where Iller Bank was
specially concerned, and municipal level). The current approach of single sector projects is more
effective, although it (loes not address all the diagnosed problems at once.
30.     Do not Hesitate to Restructure an Unsatisfactory Project. Rather than sticking with the
original overambitious goals, that were highly unlikely to be achieved, the downsizing of the project
enabled the Borrower and the Bank to achieve partial goals. Preparing an action plan for
unsatisfactory projects is a first step to implement this policy.



10
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status ol Legal Covenants
Table l :  Compliance with Operational Manual Statemiients
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



I1
Table 1: Sunimary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objecLives        Substantial     Partial     Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                      FII            E             LI1
Sector policies                      a             L                             LI
Financial objectives                               M             L               LI
Institutional development           L i                          m               L
Physical objectives                  O             OI aI
Poverty reduction                   LI             0             0        
Gender issues                        O                           LI 0            n
Other social objectives             n              n             o               2
Environmental objectives            LI             [I                            L0
Public sector management            L              LI            0X
Private sector developmenit         LI              I            0                 I
Otlher (specify)                    oI             oI           nL
B. Project sustainability             Likely                Unlikely            Uncertaill
I II 0I
C. Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory        Sditisfactory         Deficient
Identilication                      L                       L                    LI
Preparation assistancc               OI                     O 
Appraisal                            O                      0I                   LI
Supervision                          0                       LX I
D. Borrower performanice        Highly Satisfaictory       Salisfactory          Dcficient
Preparation                         L                       0I                   W
Implementation                       l                                            1
Covenant compliance                 L                                            LI
E. Assessmnent of outcomc  Highily Satisfactory Satisfactory  UnsatisfactoryHighly Unsauisfactory
El                          X                aI



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
]Year of
Loan Title            |                   Purpose                       Approva    Status
Preceding Operations
Istanbul Sewerage I                To expand and improve sewage collection in      1982        Closed.
(LN. 2159-TU)                      Istanbul; to reduce water pollution in the Golden
Horn and the Sea of Marmara; and to strengthen
the institutional framework of ISKI.
Cukurova Region Urban              To identify and design investments for five     1985        Closed.
Engineering Project                muLnicipalities in the Cukurova Region; to
(LN. 2537-TU)                      develop conmplementary policies and national,
reiional and local institutional mechanisms to
support decentralization, achieve integrated
regional and urban planning and improve urban
eftficiency.
lIzmir Water Supply and Sewerage    To assist in establishing an autonomous water  1987        Active.
(LN. 2818-TU)                      and sewerage authority for Izmir; to encourage
appropriate cost recovery policies; to correct
deficiencies in and expand the capacity of
Izmir's water and sewerage systems; and to
blling about environmental improvements and
reduced health hazards by eliminating open
flows and uLntreated sewage in the city and the
discharge of untreated sewage to Izriir Bay.
Subsequent Operations
lIstanbul Water Supply and         To improve and extend sewerage service to 70%   1987
Sewerage                           of the population of Istanbul by the end of 1994;
(LN. 2888-TU)                      to provide for appropriate treatment and disposal
of sewage, to protect the water and shoreliness
of the sea of Marmara and the Bosphorus; to
reduce unaccotunted for water; and to strengthen
ISKI's operation and maintenance and industrial
waste management capabilities.
Ankara Sewage                      To eliminate the discharge of untreated sewage    1989      Active.
LN. 3151-TU)                       to the Ankara River and its tributaries flowing
through Ankara; to extend sewerage to
approximately 850,000 unserved persons; to
reduce flooding during heavy rainstorms; and to
improve ASKI's operations and maintenance.



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans (cont'd)
Year of
Loan Title                                Purpose                      Approval   Status
Earthquake Rehabilitation and      To reconstruct essential housing, infrastructure    1992   Active.
Reconstruction                     and other facilities to restore economic activity
(LN. 3611-TU)                      in the affected areas.
Bursa Water and Sanitation         To improve environment conditions and reduce    1993       Active.
(LN. 3565-TU and                   health hazards in the Great Bursa; to improve
LN. 3566-TU)                      the management of municipal water supply,
sewer services, and of domestic, industrial and
clinical solid waste; to meet the demand for
water supply, sewerage, tlood protection, and
solid waste services including the demand of the
poor living in the fringes of the city; to postpone
the need to develop new water resources by
increasing the efficiency of water usage by and
reducing the volume of non-revenue water; and
to implement appropriate cost recovery policies.
Antalya Water Supply and           To meet at least cost the demand for water     1995        Active.
Sanitation                         supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage; to
(LN. 3893-TU)                      develop new institutional arrangements for
management of water supply sewerage and
stormwater drainage and to introduce private
sector participation in the operation of the
services; to implement appropriate cost recovery
policies; to postpone the need to develop costly
new water resources; and to improve
environmental conditions.



14
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Date                    Date actual/
1. Steps in Project Circle                     Planned                 latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     03/84                   03/84
Preparation                                    84 - 86                 84 - 86
Appraisal                                      10/86                    10/86
Negotiations                                   04/87                   04/87
Board presentation                             05/87                   05/87
Signing                                        06/87                   06/87
Effectiveness                                  09/87                   01/88
Restructuring                                  -                       08/91
Project completion                             06/94'                  06/95
Loan closing                                   06/952                  06/95
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
Appraisal                   Actual As
IBRD Fiscal Year       Estimate        Actual    Percentage of
(US$ thousands)          Estimate
1988                14.0        10.16          73
1989                33.5        10.16          30
1990                55.5        11.84          21
1991                78.0        11.84          15
1992                96.5        19.16          20
1993               109.5        23.82          22
1994               118.0        27.50          23
1995               120.0        28.50          24
Date of Final Disbursemcnt: May 11,1995
12/92 after restructuring
2  06/93 aiter restructuring



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated
Actual
Original         After Restructuring
1. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR
Not precisely defined.
The SAR mentions:
1. Project costs (US$                 467                    69                   62
million)
2. Outputs e.g.              Mer: 82%; Tar: 83%;            N.A.         Mer: 83%; Tar: 98%;
population              Isk: 98%                                    Isk: 100%
connected to
water (%)
Population connected     Mer: 34%; Tar: 14%;            N.A.         Mer: 89%; Tar: NA;
sewerage (%)            lsk: 34%                                    Isk: 15%3
km primary water supply               125                   N.A.                   25
network
km primary sewerage                   115                   N.A.                  104
network
3. Number of contracts                475                    41                    39
signed
4. Number of Ha. ot
urban expansion                  471                   235                   235
areas
3       Iskenderum sewerage network was redesigned completely. The percentages of people connected
to the metwork are not comparable.



16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                        Actual
1. Key operating indicators in SAR
No key indicators were established at the
time of appraisal.
11. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. Water tariffs (domestic 2nd bloc)4   Mersin: US$0.24                 Mersin: US$ 0.63
Tarsus: US$ 0.26                Tarsus: US$ 0.38
Iskenderun: US$ 0.27            Iskenderun: US$ 0.28
111. Afodified indicators forfurure
operation (if applicable)
1. Water production5                                                    Mersin: 40,000,000 m3
Tarsus: 11,442,000 m3
Iskenderun: 10,000,000m3
2. Water Salecs                         Mersin: 23,600,000 m3            Mersin: 18,600,000 m3
Tarsus: 8,530,000 m3            Tarsus: 4,970,000 mr3
Iskenderun: 10,610,000 m3       Iskenderun 6,200,000 m3
3. Unaccounted for water (%)7           Mersin: 42%                      Mersin: 53%
Tarsus: 31%                     Tarsus: 52 %
Iskenderun: 27%                 Iskenderun: 45%
4. Water and Sewerage Operating                                          Mersin: 681,000 (1995 US$)
and Maintenance Costs                                             Tarsus: 392,000
Iskenderun : NA
4 US$1995 value
s 1994 figures
6 Estimated figures are those of the economic analysis (1986); actual figures are 1994 figures.
7 Idem



17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study                  appraisal/redefined          Status         Impact of study
1. Oceanic Survey (Iskenderun)     Improve outfall location      Completed       Assessment of
outfall impact
2. Oceanic Survey (Mersin)         Imiprove outfall location     Completed       Assessment of
outfall impact
3. Hydrologeological Survey        Find water resources          Not
(Iskenderun)                                               Completed
4. Hydrogeological Survey          Find water resources           Completed      Improved water
(Iskenderun)                                                              supply
5. Hydrogeological Sur\cy (Adana)   Find water resources          Not
Completed
6. Hydrogeological Survey (Mersin)  Find water resources         Not
Completed



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate after
Appraisal estimate            restructuring           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)              (US$ million)               (US$ million)
Item                       Local   Foreign            Local    Foreign            Local  Foreign
Costs   Costs    Total   Costs       Costs    Total  Costs  Costs        Total
1. Area-Based Infrastructure                   125.7      37.0  162.8       6.8         3.3    10.1    7.2        3.4    10.6
2. Citywide Infrastructure                     149.9      76.4  226.2      27.6        21.1    48.7   23.0       22.9    45.9
3. Iller Bank, Technical Assistance Project      5.3       3.8    9.1       2.5         1.8    4.3    2.5          1.8    4.3
Management
4. Training                                       1.2      0.9    2.1       0.3         0.4     0.7    0.6        0.4      1.0
5. Contingencies                                44.0      16.8  60.8        4.0         1.9     5.9
Total                                 329.8    137.6  467.4       41.2       28.5    69.7   33.3        28.5   61.8



19
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ mnillion)                  (US$ million)
Source
Local   Foreign                 Local   Foreign
costs    costs    Total         costs     costs     Total
1. IBRD                                0.0   120.0       120.0          0.0      28.5      28.5
2. Electricity and Telecommunication   42.5     8.0       50.5
Authorities
3. Government                          37.4     9.6       47.0
4. Development Support Fund            11.5     0.0       11.5
5. 1ller Bank                         104.6     0.0      104.6          18.2      0.0      18.2
6. Beneticiaries                       47.8     0.0       47.8
7. Internal cash Generation            11.2     0.0       11.2
8. Municipalities                     74.7      0.0       74.7         15.1       0.0      15.1
Total                  329.8   137.6      467.4          33.3     28.5      61.8



aIb)le 9A:    Econoillic Rate of Retirn
XVWaer :,nwd Sanitation - Mersin
WATER AND SANITATION - MERSIN
ECONOMIC RARE OF RETURN             _             _
Sales       Sales        Tariff Difference Operating  Op Drating  ifference Difference  lnvestm.    Other  Total   Connection Benefit
Without     With               in        Cost      Cost     Operating  Operational financed    Investm.   Invest   fees       Losses__
Project     Project            Saile (tl  With     Without   Costs    Income     under
(m3/yearl    (m3/year)    (USt)          Project   Project   (US$)               Project
1987   12,800,000
1988   12,480,000
1989   12, 1 B,000   14,219,091  0.11  225,820   177,000   151,488   25,532    200,088     32,000    238,000    2B8,000     52,000      -15,912
1990   11,883,800   14,983,807  0.11  352,581  235,000   186,087   48,933    303,0281                350,000    350,000    150,000      109,028
1991   11,587,205   13,732,291  0.20  554,202  420,000  353,781    88,219    488,043   1,992,000  2,485,000  4,477,000    220,000  -3,789.957
1992   11,278,025   15,090,442  0.27 1,034,791   442,000  330,203   111,797    922,994   3,796,000  7,458,000 11,252,000    214,000  -10,115,006
1993   10,990,074   15,498,024  0.48 2,180,938  500,000  397,328   162,872  1,998,284  11,824,000 17,015,000 29,239,000    233,000  -27,007,736
1994   10,721,172   18,018,403  0.40 3,158,892  891,000  392,145   288,855  2,870,037   5,573,000  8,514,000  14,097,000    221,000  -10,995,983
1995   10,453,143   18,989,803  0.50 4,302,370  894,577   382,342   312,238  3,990,140   1,825,00    799,000  2,024,000          0   1,388,140
19901 10,191,815   19,300,803  0.50 4,e21,170  708,155  372,783  335,371  4,285,799             0          O                     O0  4,285,799
1997    9,937,019   19,732,003  0.50 4,930,072  721,732  383,404  358,2e8  4,578,403            0          0                     0   4,578,403
1998    9,088,594   20,103,202  0.50 5,248,903   735,309   354,377  380,932  4,888,031          0          0                     0   4,888,031
1999    9,440,379   20,474,402  0.50 5,558,124  748,889  345,517   403,369  5,154,755           0          0                     0   5,154,755
2000    9,210,219   20,945,802  0.50 5,864,233  762,484  338,880  425,584  5,438,849            0          0                     0   5,438,049
2001    8,979,904   21,210,802  0.50 a, 107,380  770,041   328,458  447,583  5,719,783                                                5,719,783
2002    8,755,405   21,588,002  0.50 8,407,599  789,618  320,248  489,372  5,998,227                                                  5,998,227
2003    8,538,s78   21,959,202  0.50 8,785,002  803,195   312,240  490,955  8,274,047                                                 8,274,047
2004    8,323,184   22,330,401  0.50 7,059,048  81e,773   304,434  512,339  8,547,309                                                 B 8,547,309
2005    8,115,085   22,701,801  0.50 7,351,804  830,350  290,823   533,527  0,818,078                                                 8,818,078
2006    7,912,207   23,072,901  0.50 7,840,939  843,927   289,403  554,525  7,080,414                                                 7,086,414
2007    7,714,402   23,444,001  0.50 7,927,718  857,505   282,107  575,337  7,352,381                                                 7,352,381
2008    7,521,542   23,815,201  0.50 8,212,004  871,082   275,113   595,9e8  7,810,035                                                7,010,035
2009    7,333,504   24,180,401  0.50 8,493,860  884,859   288,235   818,424  7,877,430                                      _         7,877,438
2010    7, 150, 10    24,557,000  0.50 8,773,347  898,238  281,530  838,707  8.130.840_                                               8,138,840
2011    0,971,412   24,928,800  0.50 9,050,524  911,814  254,991   05e,822  8,393,701                                                 8,393,701
2012    0,797,127   25,300,000  0.50 9,325,448  925,391   248,017  878,774  8,648,874                                                 8,948,874
._________        ________    ________:: ________    ________    :  ............. :.



21
Table 9B:   Economic Rate of Return
Urban Extension Areas - Nlersin
URBAN EXTENSION AREAS - MERSIN
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
_______             Value of    Value of   Benefit/
Year     Investments  Unserviced   Serviced   Loss
(1995 US$)  Land         Land
______   1_________ (1995 US$)  (1995 US$)
-   1989  1,424,000       1069000          0 -2493000
1990  2,332,000             0         0 -2332000
1991  1,846,000             0         0 -1846000
1992   821,000              0 11000000 10179000
=_                                          ._a~om~c Rate of R~tuf n   2...
_ |~Ec   ScRio3if tat .... of Rotnr1....-.: 2.2.1



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Agree-             Covenant                Fulfilment  Fulfilment   Description of
ment   Section     Type            Status  Date        Date        Covenant             Comments
LA      2.02       Accounts        C       06/12/87                 Special Account
in Central Bank
LA     3.01        Project         CP      06/12/87                 Borrower to cause    Borrower has
Implemen-                                       Iller Bank and the   limited powers to
tation                                          Municipalities to   enforce tariff
perform their       increases
obligations
LA      3.02       Procuremlient    C      06/12/87                 Procurement of      Waiver of
lgoods, works,      Procurement Law
and services in     2886 was done, but
accordance with     delayed
Schedule I of       implementation
Project
Agreement
PA     Schedule 2 Project          C       06/12/87                PRIMU to
Sect. Al   Implemen-                                        administer funds,
tation                                          review progress,
review procuremnent
and prepare PCR
PA     Schedulle 2  Project        C       06/12/87                Each municipality
Sect. A3    Implemen-                                      to designate a
tat ion                                         Project
Coordinator
PA     Schedule 2  Project         C       06/12/87                PRIMU to ensure
Sect. A4    Implemen-                                      that implementation
tation                                          and supervison
arrangements are
adequate
PA     ScheduIle 2  Monitoring     C       06/12/87                PRIMU to prepare
Sect. CI   and review                                      semi-annual progress
reports for the Bank



23
Status  Original    Revised     Description of       Comments
Agree-             Covenant                 Fulfilment  Fulfilment   Covenant
ment   Section     Type                     Date        Date
PA      Schedule 2  Cost            CP      08/09/91                Municipalities of    Tariff increases
Sect. 4.01  recovery/                                       Mersin, Tarus        were not always
pricing                                         and Iskenderun       sufficient to cover
to increase water    inflation + 10%
tariffs by 10%
above inflation
LA      3.01       Financial        C       06/12/87                Borrower to cause    Covenant deleted
funds to be made    during restructuring
available for social,
electricity,
telecommunication
and training
LA      3.01       Accounts         NC      06/12/87                Borrower to take     Ministry of Interior
action to require   asked municipalities
municipalities to   to implement its
adcopt cost and     own system
management
accounting systems
LA      3.01       Subloan          C       06/12/87                Borrower shall
procedLure                                       make proceeds of
the Loan available
to Iller Bank,
repaid according
to subsidiary
loan agreement,
except for
CMTA
LA      3.01       Project          CD      06/12/87                Borrower shall       There were serious
Implemren-                                      cause entities to    delays at the
tation                                          carry out the        beginning of the
program in          implementation
accordance with
the implemen-
tation program
(Schedule 2)



24
Agree- Section      Covenant Type  Status  Original    Revised         Description of       Comments
ment                                          Fulfilment  Fulfilment   Covenant
Date        Date
LA      3.04        Reviews          C        End 1990                 Assessment shall      Led to
be made of           restructuring
implementation
progress with
GOT, Iller Bank
and municipalities
LA      4.01        Accounts         C                                 Borrower shall cause
project entities to
maintain sounlid
accounts to retlect
their resources and
accouints
LA      4.01        Audits           CD                                Project accouints to
he audiited
LA      2.06                                 06/12/87                  Municipalities to     Deleted due to loan
obtain Bank's        restructuring
clearance on
change of HLJDC
capital structuire
LA      4.02                                 06/12/87                  HLJDC's eqIuity       Deleted due to loan
to he maintained     restructuring
aIt least 2/3 of
(lebt with a ratio)
of cuirrenit liabili-
ties of not less
than 2/3
LA      4.03        Cost recovery            06/12/87                  Sale price of land   Deleted due to loan
to cover cost of     restructuring/
land, overheads,     difficult to mnonitor
on-site infrastruc-
ture and not less
than 1/3 of otf-site
infrastructUre



25
Agree- Section      Covenant Type  Status  Original    Revised        Description of       Comments
ment                                         Fulfilment  Fulfilment   Covenant
Date       Date
LA      4.04        Cost recovery                                     Water revenues to    Deleted due to loan
also cover 20% of   restructuring/difficu
annual capital      It to monitor
expenditure
PA      Schedule 2  Financial        CP                               PRIMU to review      Cities were unable
investment programs to prepare three
with municipalities   year programs
PA      Schedule 2  Financial        CP      06/12/87                 PRIMU to ensure    Accounting systems
that fees and        and legal limitation
connection charges   of investment
will cover cost of    recovery made cost
upgrading and that   recovery inadequate
water and sewerage
financial targets are
met
PA      Schedule 2  Project          C                                Iller Bank to provide
Implementation                                    adequate staffing in
PRIMU
PA      Schedule 2  Project          CP                               PRIMU to prepare
Implementation                                   the Project
Completion Report
Covenaint type:                                                                  Present Status
o  Accounts/audits                   o    Monitoring/review                      C = covenant complied with
o  Cofinancing                       o    Procurement                            CD  = complied with after delay
o  Consultation                      0    Project implementation arrangements    CP = complied with partially
o  Cost recovery/pricing                   (including project coordination units)  NC = not complied with
o  Counterpart funding               0    Remedies
o  Dam safety                        o    Resettlement
o  Disbursement definitions/conditions  o    Sector policy conditionality:
(including special accounts)         administrative change
o  Engineering                      o    Sector policy conditionality:
o  Environmental                          budgetary/allocative change
o  Facilities maintenance           0    Sector policy conditionality:
o  Financial                              regulatory change
o  General conditions (Section 1.01 of  o    Sector policy conditionality: other
the Loan or Credit Agreement)    o    Studies/technical assistance
o  Institutional (involving other than    o    Subproject/subloan criteria and
project coordination units)           procedures
0    Subsidiary agreements



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational M\fanual Statements
There was no lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual Statement.



27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned         Actual
Stage of project cycle   Weeks       Weeks
Through appraisal                      145
Appraisal - Board                      55
approval
Board approval -                        7
Effectiveness
Supervision             145            141
Completion                              6
Total



28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. oDays in                               Rating 2           Types of
Stage of project cycle      Month/Year  Persons Field       Specialization    Implementation Development Problems 3
status      objectives
Through appraisal'
Appraisal - Board approval     10/86        8       40      E+2F+3E+D
Board approval - Effectivenes    06/87      5       20       2N+2E+F
Board approval - Effectivenes    09/87      3       18         2N+E
Supervision                    04/88        3       14          2N+E                     2                F,T,M
Supervision                    07/88        3       12         N+E+F                     2                 T,M
Supervision                    11/88        3       16         2N+E                      3                 T,M
Supervision                    06/89        4       11         2N +2E                    3                F,T,M
Supervision                    02/90        5       16        3N+E+F                     3                F,T,M
Supervision                    04/88        3       14          2N-+E                    2                F,T,M
Supervision                    07/88        3       12         N+E+F                     2                 T,M
Supervision                    11/88        3       16          2N+E                     3                 T,M
Supervision                    06/89        4       11         2N+2E                     3                F,T,M
Sup1Crvision1                  02190        5       16        3N+E+F                     3                F,T,M
Supervision                    06/90        1        4            E                      3                F,T,M
Supervision                    05/91        2       14          F+N                      2
Supervision                    12/91        2       12          F+N                     2
Supervision                    10/93        1        7            N                      2
Supervision                    09/94        1        5            N                      2
Supervision                    04/95        1        5            N
Completion                     04/95        1        5            N
Total
I- Specialization                           2 - Performnance Rating               3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                          I = Minor problems                   F =  Financial
E = Economist                                2 = Moderate Problems                T = Technical
D = Education Specialist                     3 = Major Problems                   M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Specialist
M  = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R   Forester
Prepared through CUEP (Cukorova Region Urban Engineering Project)



29                      APPENDIX A
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
World Bank Supervision Mission
(April 03 to April 05, 1995
April 16 to April 19, 1995)
Cukurova Urban Development Proiect(Loan 2819-TU)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.   This Aide Memoire covers the findings of a World Bank
mission by Pascal Douard who visited the Republic of Turkey to
supervise the Cukurova Urban Development Project (Loan 2819-TU)
and prepare its implementation completion report (ICR) during the
period April 03 to April 05 and April 16 to April 19, 1995. The
Aide Memoire comprises five parts: A) Main Conclusions of the
Mission; B) Project Implementation Supervision; C) Preparation of
the Implementation Completion Report; D) Preparation of the
Operation Plan; E) Next Steps for the Completion of the Project.
As usual, the Bank will send confirmation of this Aide Memoire
shortly after the mission's return to headquarters.
2.   The mission met with officials and staff of the Treasury,
Iller Bank comprising the Project Management Unit (PRIMU), State
Planning Organization, Ministry of Interior, and the Mersin,
Tarsus, and Iskenderun Municipalities; the mission would like to
thank all of them for their help and warm hospitality.
A.   Main Conclusions of the Mission
3.   The mission noticed that:
(a) The implementation of the project is nearly finished,
and will be terminated before the closing date (June
30, 1995). The loan will be fully disbursed.
(b) In January, the Municipalities increased their water
and sewerage tariffs to protect their revenues against
inflation, in compliance with the loan covenant. Due to
the pace of inflation, municipalities may want to
consider more frequent than yearly adjustments.
Adequate revenues are essential to finance further
investments.
(c) The Municipalities consider that the Cukurova Urban
Development Project, although restructured and
therefore unable to finance all the infrastructure
needed, was a useful operation. They regard the
implementation of the project and the PRIMU action
since the restructuring of the project as being
satisfactory. They feel that the involvement of local
governments in the provision and financing of local
infrastructure is an appropriate policy that they
learned to implement to a certain extent. They share
the central administration views regarding the
disappointing results of the early implementation
years. They provided useful guidance for future
projects.



30
(d) In spite of this positive evaluations, the
mission considers that the overall rating of the
project is unsatisfactory, due to the fact that
many of the original objectives were not achieved. The
municipalities are today struggling to finance their
infrastructure needs under external foreign financing,
because local revenue generation remains insufficient
to provide enough financial resources.
(e) During the mission, the preparation of the project's
operation plan was discussed, and the main areas to be
covered in the plan were identified (see Annex 1).The
mission recommends that the borrower describe in detail
with the participation of the municipalities the
corresponding action plan.
B.   Prolect Implementation Supervision
4.   Loan Disbursement. The loan is almost completely disbursed.
The last disbursement of around US$ 15,000, paid directly to the
municipality of Mersin, is to be expected soon. The PRIMU
experienced difficulties in determining the exact value of the
loan still available because of different exchange rates used in
the Central Bank in Ankara and the World Bank in Washington.
5.   Protection of the Sea Shore in Mersin. The length of the sea
shore protection (and rehabilitation) has been extended from 400
to 800 meters, due to the financing of the dredging component of
the civil works by the Ministry of Public Works. More than 90% of
the works are now completed and the area surrounding the central
pumping station is significantly improved. The PRIMU will send to
the Bank the modification to the original contract, and the
revised financing plan of this investment. The Bank's financing
applied only partially to this US$ 500,000 investment, for the
remaining amount of the loan.
6.   Computer equipment in Tarsus. The equipment has been
purchased and is meeting the municipality's expectations.
7.   Water and Sewerage Tariffs. The mission reviewed the tariff
increases decided by the municipalities. From 1994 to 1995, these
increases generally respect the loan covenant asking for
increases of 10% above inflation. However, in dollar terms used
as a proxy for a real value indicator, these tariffs are slightly
lower in 1995 than in 1992, due to previous years insufficient
tariff increases. The mission recommends frequent adjustments
(two to four times a year) to cope with the current inflation
rate in Turkey. Some municipalities (e.g. Mersin) are still
unable to meet their expenditure and debt services with their
revenues.
8.   Project Annual Report and Audits. The Project Management
Unit produced the 1994 annual report, which was found
satisfactory by the mission. The mission reminded the PRIMU to
organize the production and the translation of the 1994 audits
before June, 30, 1995.



31
C.   Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
9.   The PRIMU had before the mission answered a questionnaire
related to the physical outcomes of the operation and its
financial aspects, prepared a draft implementation completion
report, and drafted the outline of an operation plan. The PRIMU
will update the figures provided if necessary.
10. Administration and municipalities met during this mission
unanimously consider the original objectives of the project as
sound objectives: the implication of local government in the
provision and the financing of infrastructure is the only
solution to deal with the infrastructure required by an urban
growth of more than 5% per year. Cost recovery policies are
essential to generate local financing. Decentralization policies
require new rules of appraisal and control.
11. The mission examined why the project had not been
successfully implemented between 1987, date of its approval, and
1991, date of its restructuring and downsizing. The main reasons
are:
a)   lack of ownership of the project. The project was prepared
by consultants working for by the State Planning
organization. However, for the implementation phase, the
project was handed over to the municipalities and to Iller
Bank, which was to be the implementation agency. At the
beginning of 1987, the municipalities were largely
uninformed about the project. Iller Bank had not been
involved either in the preparation of the project. In 1989,
municipal elections brought to power municipal leadership
who had been campaigning against the project. Therefore,
during the first years of the project implementation, nobody
felt responsible for the project or supported it.
(b) insufficient preparation of the project for some aspects:
the original design of the civil works generated a lot of
discussions between Iller Bank, the municipalities, and the
consultants. The scope of the project had been increased
during the preparation of the project, and when the loan was
signed, some designs were not ready or had not been approved
by all parties involved.(e.g. outfall location in
Iskenderun). Time schedules were unrealistic (three month
estimated for land acquisition, whereas Iskenderun
municipality required more than two years to acquire this
land). Financial projections suffered from the same flaw (no
other investment taken into account during an election year
than those included in the project).
(d)  difficulties to implement institutional changes: Although a
decentralization policy was in place and was maintained by
central government, reforms such as new accounting
framework, waiver of some procurement rules, and flexibility



32
for hiring high level staff could not be implemented rapidly
in the national administrative framework. The choice of
Iller Bank as an implementing agency could not provide the
political power to speed up these changes. Iller Bank's top
management was not in favor of a project which devolved
procurement of local infrastructure to local government and
recommended to transform Iller Bank into a financial
institution. The key institutional changes required for the
project success should have been decided before loan
signature.
12. The municipalities underlined that they still had big
investment needs, and that the restructured loan had been unable
to meet the financing of the infrastructure required by
population growth of about 6% per year, due to migration. Mersin
has projects of sewage collection, roads, and solid waste
disposal but has not yet found the financing of these
investments. Tarsus has been discussing with various bilateral
export agencies to find the financing of sewage collection (US$50
million). It also wants to improve the solid waste disposal by
creating a landfill (an US$ 25 million investment). Iskenderun
wants to complete its sewerage network (US$ 50 million) and has a
landfill investment project.
13. For future operations, the following supplementary ideas
were suggested:
(a) concentrate on a small number of sectors if there are
financial constraints;
(b) for cost recovery purposes, promote participation of the
beneficiaries in the financing of the investments and avoid
pursuing cost recovery solely through tariffs. People in
Tarsus are willing to purchase pipe materials, but are
reluctant to approve tariffs increases. The limits set up by
the law for participation in investment expenditures are
considered too low by some municipalities.(2% of the
property tax)
D.   Preparation of the Operation Plan
14.   The mission underlined the necessity to prepare an
operation plan, and discussed this issue with PRIMU and the
municipalities. The Municipalities prepared contributions to the
operation plan.
15. The main issues discussed for this operation plan, focused
on water and sanitation, were:
(a) Independence of water and sanitation departments: in all
three cities, the water and sanitation department has an
independent budget. Mersin water and sanitation operation is
now performed under law 2560 by MESKI under the control of



33
Mersin metropolitan municipality (a decree has to officially
approve this creation).
(b) Comparison of operational practices between different
cities: comparisons of efficiencies and quality of services
between cities contracting with the private sector (Antalya,
Mersin), and other cities will be useful.
(c) Budget preparation: in order to create the resources for
operation, maintenance, and future investments, the
municipalities should prepare and execute budgets in which
the revenues balance the expenditures and the debt service.
Municipalities need to undertake this financial planning
also for the coming years in order to forecast any major
change. Due to the inflation, it may be necessary to prepare
restated accounts.
(d) Network management: mapping is a necessity to manage the
networks. Periodic measurements of flows and concentrations
in the sewage network helps to detect any major dysfunction.
(e) Billing collection and updating of the consumer register: it
is a necessity to assess the quantity of water supplied and
collect as many revenues as possible.
(f)  Leakage detection and repair: as figures are around 50%, and
although the consumption per capita is rather low, an action
to reduce leakage makes sense.
16. Iller Bank will determine in the coming months what it needs
to follow the capacity of the municipalities to repay their
loans. Iller Bank agreed to consider monitoring some data of the
municipal water and sewage department for this purpose.
E.   Next Steps for the Completion of the Project
17. The Bank will provide within three months a draft version of
the ICR to the Borrower for comment.
18. The Borrower will within this same three months complete its
evaluation of the project and of the operation plan and transmit
it to the Bank. It will also send the audits reports of the
project for the year 1994 before the end of June 1995.
19. The PRIMU will send to the Bank the modification of the
contract and the updated financing plan for the Mersin protection
of the sea shore. It will organize the last payment for the
project. It will work on the completion of the operation plan
with the municipalities. It will decide the indicators to be
monitored in the future to assess the creditworthiness of the
water and sewage municipal departments.



34
20. The mission met with the following people:
Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, The Prime
Ministry, Republic of Turkey, Ankara
*    Mrs. A. Berrin Aydin, Division Chief for Infrastructure
Municipality of Mersin
*    Mr. H. Okan Merzeci, Lord Mayor of Mersin Greater
Municipality
*    Mr. Ilhan Sayan
Municipality of Tarsus
*    Mr. Burhanettin Kocamaz, Mayor of Tarsus
*    Mr. Mahmut Tat, Deputy Mayor
e    Mr. Sadik Gungor, Project Coordinator
*    Mrs.Esin Sener
Municipality of Iskenderun
-    Mr. Mete Aslan, Mayor of Iskenderun
-    Mr. Adnan Kilincoglu, Project Coordinator
-    Mr. Kemal Sen
-    Mr. Musa Sokmen
State Planning Organization
*    Mrs Belma Ustunisik
*    Mr Hasan Oskidik
*    Mr. Sedat Cetik
Ministry of Interior
*    Mr. Enis Yeter
Iller Bank/PRIMU
*    Mr. Onal Suer, Chairman and General Manager
*    Mr. Nihat Sayinalp, Director of the PRIMU
*    Mr. Ayhan Atli



35
ANNEX 1
PROJECT OPERATION PLAN
The Borrower must prepare a Project Operation Plan covering
the continued operation of the Project. The plan, which may be
prepared in a table form if desired, should focus on those
measures which will be taken to ensure the sustainibility and the
development objectives beyond closing date of the World Bank
loan. It should also establish monitoring criteria and procedures
for the achievement of the plan.
In the case of the restructured Cukurova Urban Development
Project, the operation plan should pay special attention, also
not be limited to, the following topics:
(a) independence of water and sanitation departments
(b) efficiency of water supply and sewerage, measured by
the number of staff per 1,000 connections, and other
operating costs;
(c) budgeting aspects and other financial projections,
ensuring through adequate tariffs that revenues balance
expenditures and debt services;
(d)  network management through mapping, measurements,
connections control
(e) billing collection and consumer register updating
(f) reduction of leakages.
This project Operation Plan should be described in
sufficient detail, describing the actions envisaged, the
responsibilities, and the monitoring criteria used to assess
results.
The following data could be used to monitor the results
-    water produced
-    water billed
-    estimation of losses
-    water connections
-    sewage connections
-    service coverage water
-    service coverage sewage
-    employees/1000 water connection
-    operating costs
-    maintenance costs
-    debt service
-    revenues
-    average water and sewerage tariffs
File name: m:\pd\tur\cuk\mis.apr



APPENDIX B
36
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKIYE
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN NO.: 2819-TU
DATE: 15-FEB-1995
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF ILLER BANKASI
DIRECTORATE OF PRIMU



37
ABBREVIATIONS
CUDP = Cukurova Urban Development Project
PRIMU = Project Review Implementation and Management Unit
SPO   = State Planning Organization
3017



38
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
PART I      IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
B. Achievement of Objectives
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
D. Project Sustainability
E. Bank Performance
F. Borrower Performance
G. Assessment of Outcome
H. Future Operation
I. Key Lessons Learned
PART II    STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table  1:  Summary of Assessment
Table  2:  Related Bank Loans
Table  3:  Project Timetable
Table  4:  Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative  Estimated
and Actual
Table  5:  Key    Indicators       for     Project
Implementation
Table  6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table  7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table  9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Appendix: Map
3017



39
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKIYE
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN NO.: 2819-TU
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion report (ICR) for the
Cukurova Urban Development Project in Turkiye, for which
loan in the   amount   of  US$ 120  million  equivalent
was approved on 12-June-1987 and made effective on 31-Aug-
1987.
The loan was closed on 30-June-1995.   1(Original  Closing
Date : 30-June-1995). Final disbursement took place
on ., at which time a balance of US$ 91,500,000
was cancelled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by
Iller Bankasi and Municipalities.
1 Closing date according to restructuring was 30-June-1993
3017



40
PART I
A. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
a) To assist municipalities to overcome service deficiencies
and to manage urban growth;
b) To establish in Iller Bankasi a capacity for appraisal and
monitoring municipal investment progress;
c) To finance certain municipal investments under appropriate
institutional    arrangements    for    planning    and
implementation,cost recovery, financial management,and
staff development.
Scope of CUDP :
- Urban Expansion Areas
- Informal Housing Upgrading and Management
- Municipal Services (Water Supply, Sanitation, Drainage,
Solid Waste Management:
- Municipal Finance and Management
- Training
- Iller Bankasi
The provision of technical assistance and equipment to
Iller Bankasi to assist in improving its organization and
management and in the staffing and operation of PRIMU.
The scope of the project was truncated substantially
based on the agreement upon "Restructuring" reached in USA
between March 4-8, 1991.
1                          3017



41
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF-OBJECTIVES
- Physical objectives of the original project contain
Total length of Water pipes        = 875 km.
Total length of Sewerage pipes    = 975 km. ( + 3 ponds)
Total length of Storm water pipes = 150 km.
Total length of Road               =  40 km.
Solid waste                            = 1 disposal site, 50
vehicles, 10,000 containers
However at the end of implementation the realization
figures in  relevant sectors are approximately
Total length of Water pipes        =  25 km.
Total length of Sewerage pipes    = 104 km. ( + 3 ponds)
Total length of Storm water pipes =  11 km.
Total length of Road               =  20 km.
Solid waste                        = 1 disposal site.
Also, procurement of 175 various equipments, computer
equipments and 5200 containers was realized.
comparing realization with original project objectives
reflects the fact that the extent of achievement of
objectives is quite little. However, the objectives
truncated by restructuring were fulfilled to a great
extent with some delay. (In restructuring, while the
completion date was 31-Dec-1992 and closing date 30-June-
1993, the closing date was extended first to 30-June-1994
and later on to 30-June-1995.)
2                          3017



42
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
- Unit (PRIMU) which would manage the project was not
established in a way suitable to the scope and extent of
the project in terms of quality, quantity, location and
time .
- Studies allowing the implementation of World Bank bidding
procedures in stead of law no.2886 which were to be
settled before commencing the implementation period was
not carried out during the preparation period of the
project .
- As a result of the use of preferential rights of new
administrations for the existing works following the
municipal elections in 1989 and , their approach  to the
project was not positive.
- Matters on financial system and staffing of municipalities
were not allowed to progress.
- Setting up the scope of the project as too big, though
CUDP is a pilot project, increased the negative effects of
the risk factor.
- Iller Bankasi which took place in implementation period of
the project must have been included also in the project
period in coordination with State Planning Organization.
However, since this was not secured, there happened lack
of coordination
3                         3017



43
D) PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The points that characterize the original project as pilot
project are :
- the measures against illegal housing due to immigration,
and against resulting environmental problems by means of
project packages as urban expansion areas, informal
housing upgrading and management;
- objectives to create healthy settlements and to protect
environment by means of project packages related to
infrastructure and solid waste;
- objectives for institutional improvements by means of
activities as training, etc. in iller Bankasi and relevant
municipalities.
- However, because integrity of the project was disappeared
as a result of giving up the objectives of original
project by means of truncating the project packages in
restructuring process in 1991, sustainability of the
project concerning the original project objectives might
be appraised as "uncertain".
E B*ANK PERFORMANCE
- The scope of the project should have been required not to
be determined that much big taking into account the
significance of risk factor of a pilot project.
- Involvement of Iller Bankasi in the project preparation
period should have been definitely secured taking into
account that an establishment (Iller Bankasi) which does
not take place in project preparation period cannot be
productive enough.
4                         3017



44
- Enough importance should have been given to the settlement
of the studies on the modifications of Bidding Law before
the implementation period.
- Staffing of both municipalities and PRIMU having the task
of coordination in suitable quality, quantity, time and
location should have been considered the condition to be
realized in order to implement the project.
It appears that World Bank as a credit providing
establishment has become "inefficient"         in the above
mentioned matters .
P. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
- Among the project entities, municipalities as employers
created the necessity for restructuring by making the
project inapplicable by their inefficient performances.
- Problems faced in staffing should have been anticipated
and measures had to be taken by Treasury in the name of
borrower during project period.  Negative  effects  of
municipal elections should have been anticipated too.
- The ways should have been searched by State Planning
organization as project executer to work jointly with
Iller Bankasi experienced on the above issues
- Iller Bankasi as project coordinator should have foreseen
the significance of the quality, quantity, time and
location factors in staffing of PRIMU.
5                          3017



45
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
It appears that. project is not satisfactory since it was
deviated from the original project objectives due to
restructuring.
S. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
- Since the original project was not implemented, it is not
possible to asses the project benefits as planned at the
beginning , therefore no data were obtained to be used for
working on future operation.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Though the basic reason for the implementation of the
project of such  a scope characterized as being a pilot
project   is to search and determine well beforehand
deficiencies and insufficiencies that would jeopardize the
project,  and   to give them enough significance and to
phase them by placing them properly in a realistic
timetable in order to find solutions    it appears that
such problems were left untouched.
6                          3017



46
APPENDIX C
TURKEY: Cukurova Urban Development Project (Loan 2819-TU)
Final Disbursement Status for the Loan
1.    The Special Account was fully recovered and the above subject loan closed. This loan
was fully disbursed on May 11, 1995 with the payment of Application 32.
2.    Below is the final disbursement status for the loan:
CATEGORY                                  AMOUNT DISBURSED (USD)
(1)   Works                                            10,462,278.08
(2)   Goods                                            13,710,830.94
(3)   Experts Services                                  4,179,982.45
(4)   Training and Fellowships                                  0.00
Special Account                                     146,908.53
Total                                       28,500,000.00
Amount Previously Canceled                  91,500,000.00
Loan Amount                                120,000,000.00
3.    These figures represent the amounts charged to the loan. They represent the cost for
providing the money to the Borrower in the currency he requires, from the currencies
available in the Bank treasury. These amounts are therefore slightly different from the
amounts actually paid to the contractors, which, according to PRIMU, are:
CATEGORY                                  AMOUNT DISBURSED (USD)
(1)   Works                                            10,459,473.26
(2)   Goods                                            13,710,269.36
(3)   Experts Services                                  4,180,196.84
(4)   Training and Fellowships                                  0.00
Special Account                                     149,960.54
Total                                       28,500,000.00
4.    The Special Account line represents the exchange rate fluctuation from the time of the
advance to the Special Account to the time of documentation of the Special Account.









_BRD 27629
k    ROtaANIA      T0  FEMWOn                                                                                                      T        U    R    K     E    Y
BUIGA^                                   GEORGIA io g                                 QUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   ?
GRAECE                    Ankara                  '    .F                   \ '                                                                                                                         i
POOPOSEO
REPUBLIC                                                                                K_ <asanF                                                   RA0   aere  Iusal Estates
A,    A EP )  IRAQ                                                                                                /         \                                        I                                                        - ProRseit
CYPRUS.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  j                        /                                                    / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING
O  C.PRUS.  >  _  !     /  l      RiveRs ano Irrigation Canais
/-                                                     /                      \              >             /           \                               Urpan Areas and Settleefents
}~~~~                                  ~         ~        ~~     ~      ~     ~    ~        ~      ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ * ,,  s  ,  _..  iRdusiries
Ports                                       a
(  ~  '  \ /mamnqlu                         _,_   nlOrreal-Inal BouRdar-es
o      S      lo    lIS    20      CarrliaRla                                          .* \    ra sal                         I                                                                                                                                               
n,CCrETUR  ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /n        :2>  'n
FOndikptOarl        IOA I                                                                                                                                                                                                       V el s     
a,r.Att~~~I3iJfl  -  n,.eP.niorn         Sii,nq,,'R.Ckr -5kw
MERSIN                 A  r                                                                                                                                   _
Mez,tf,                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...... ....
Qesoret, inal Te                                                                        -                             \e( ISKENDERUN
// ShlS.tele,,                                                                                                           \o
/  -AroaxbahSr                                                                                                             -(
/   Erdenlil  5S                                                                                                                      KaPataS 
/  Koarrasarill  SAt
LimonlA
__  do  _f  ./r^Sx o_ Fs ooW or rh. _7tfn ni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAOraa  o









IMAGING
Report No:       15252
Type: ICR



