Doweama of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6657-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 17, 1987
Urban and Regional Development Projects Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Thi doument has a nsftted dWnbuXon and may be u#d by falpints only in dw pofonnaucej
of tbrofitocil dutis Its contents maly not odwtXe be disclosed without World Bank auwdthoizXn.|



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALETS
US$l    =   560 Turkish Lira (TL) (December 1985)
US$1    =   750 Turkish Lira (TL) (December 1986)
100 TL  =   US$0.179 (December 1985)
100 TL  =   US$0.133 (December 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
MDEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 hectare         =   10,000 square meters
-   2.47 acres
1 meter           =   39.37 inches
1 square meter   =   10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter    =   264 US gallons
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM USED
ASKI   -   Adana Su ve Kanalizasyon Idaresi
CMTA   -   Cukurova Municipalities Training Association
CPA    -   Cukurova Project Account
DSF    -   Development Support Fund
DSI    -   State Hydraulic Works
HUDC   -   Housing and Urban Development Company
IB     -   Iller Bank
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
ISKI   -   Istanbul Su ve Kanalizasyon Idaresi
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
LGD    -   Local Government Directorate of MOI
MHF    -   Mass Housing Fund
M0I    -   Ministry of Interior
MPWS   -   Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
MFA    -   Municipality Financing Agreement
PCR    -   Project Completion Report
PCU    -   Project Coordination Unit
PPBU   -   Program Planning and Budgeting Unit
PPF    -   Public Participation Fund
PRIMU  -   Project Review, Implementation, and Monitoring Unit
PTT    -   Posts and Telecommunications Authority
SPA    -   Special Provincial Administration
SPO    -   State Planning Organization
TEK    -   Turkish Electricity Authrrity
TIU    -   Training Implementation Unit
UEA    -   Urban Expansion Area
WSD    -   Water and Sanitation Department



ol OkmCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .................      ......................  i - ii
I.    SECTOR BACKGROUND .................... ..........................    1
A.  Introduction         .............................................    1
B.  Urbanization Trends ............ .... .....................         2
Population Growth and Spatial Distribution         .............    2
Urban Service Delivery .......  ........ ..................    2
C.  Institutional Arrangements for Urban Management ............ ......O..a    3
Munic ipal ities . ... . . . . . . . . .  . .. . . .. ......a . ...a. ....... .......    3
Central Government Organizations          .......................    4
Central Government Financial Support to Municipalities .    5
D. Government's Urban Policies .6.......        ........................    6
o¢verview .......................*....... 6
Municipal Strengthening ....                                    7
Central Government Agencies ..........................         7
E. The Cukurova Municipalities                                          8
F.  Bank Goals, Role, and Lending Strategy ......................       9
Past Operations  .   . . .. .    .... ........9.... .. .       9
Lending Strategy ..        ....................  ..................   10
Project Origin and Preparation Performance         .............  10
II.   THE PROJECT        ...................   ................................  11
A.  Project Objectives                                                 11............ ....... ................   11
B.  Main Features of the Project ...............................  11
C.  Detailed Project Description  ...............................   12
Area-Based Urban Development    ...........................   12
Municipal Engineering Programs  .........................   13
Institutional Development ............................   14
D. Project Costs .................................    15
E. Financing Plan ................................   17
F.  Implementation Arrangements ...............................   19
Status of Project Preparation ..........................   19
Implementation Schedule       .........................      20
Procurement ........        ......         ...........    20
Disbursements .     .................                         22
Financial Reports and Audits  .........................   22
Monitoring and Evaluation .........................  .....   23
Supervision Requirements' .......................             23
This document has a retricted distributon and may be used by ripients only in the peffonnance
of throffoci duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World DBank authoiation.



Page No.
III.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT               ............                 24
A. Municipalities ...24
General                                                      24
Program Planning and Budgeting ............25
Urban Planning and Technical Services                        25
Manpower Development ....                                    26
Financial Management .......   .........       ........... . .   26
B.  Water and Sanitation Departments                                 27
C.  Housing and Urban Development Companies ....................   28
D.  Cukurova Municipalities Training Association (CMTA) ........   28
E.  The Project Review, Implementation, and Monitoring Unit          29
IV.   FINANCIAL ANALYSES ...................                               30
A.  Cost Recovery and Financial Objectives                           30
B. Municipalities ....................... 31
Investment Programs and Financing Plans ............0...   31
Past Financial Performance ............32
Futture Performance          .........               .....   33
Creditworthiness ..... .........                             34
C.  Water and Sanitation Departments ......34
Financing Plan for Water and Sanitation Investments ....   34
Past Performance ......36
Finat,cial Objectives  . ...*.........        ..........   37
D.  Housing and Urban Development Companies ...................   38
Financial Policies  ...                                      38
Marketing Strategy and Pricing Policy .....38
Expected Financial Performance                               39
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .............................    40
A.  Project Impact ............................ ...........   40
General ....................................... ... ..    40
Economic Justification. ..............           ...............  40
Urban Poverty Impact ....* ............  .........   43
Environmental Imiact             ................   43
B.  Project Risks ......... o.*....................    43
VI.   ASSURANCES, AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................    45
TEXT TABLES
2.1   Project Cost Table .............    16
2.2   Project Financing Plan ... ............... ** -..400. ..........    18
2.3   Procurement Arrangements . ......                   ..  ..... ..... .    21
4.1   Financing Plan for Municipal Investment Programs, 1987-94 ......     32
4.2   Structure of Municipalities' Recurrent Receipts and Expenditures   33
4.3   Financing of Water and Sanitation Departments Investments,
1987-94            ................................*...*.    35
5.1   Economic Rates of Return of Area-Based
Urban Development Components ...............................    41
5.2   Economic Rates of Return of Water and Sanitation Components ....    42



Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Municipal Engineering Services ........e.....................          49
2.   Detailed Cost Estimates .........   .............. .. .............   64
3.   Summary of Arraugements for Implementation, Finance, and
Cost Recovery ....................................                    72
4.   Implementation Schedule/Action Plan          ...........................  73
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ...........................       89
6.   Municipal Organization and Staffing          ...........................  90
7.  Housing and Urban Development Corporation Policy Statement..o...    105
8.   Cukurova Municipalities Training Association Finances    .........   116
9.   Project Review, Implementation, and Monitoring Unit ...o........     117
10.   Municipal Finances .........     ................................ ...    128
11.   Municipal Water and Sanitation Companies:
Organization and Finance ....... ........ ..   ................. ..    147
12.   Housing and Urban Development Companies Finances  ..............    166
13.   Income Distribution, Affordability and Poverty Analysis,
Economic Analysis .............o.............................,  174
14.   Contents of the Project File       ..................................    182
MAP
IBRD No. 20386 - Turkey: Cukurova Urban Development Project
This report reflects the findings of a mission to Turkey from
September 28 to November 8, 1986, comprising (for varying periods) F. Mitchell
(economist and mission leader), M. Armaly (administrative assistant),
B. Assimakopoulos (engineer/planner), G. Graves (training specialist), F.
Johnson (urban planner), D. Jones (financial advisor), G. Lee (consultant,
municipal finance specialist), and J. Pettigrew (consultant, engineer).



- i -
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Republic of Turkey
Implementing  Municipalities, Housing and Urban Development companies (HUDCs),
Agencies: Water and Sanitation departments (WSDs) in Adana, Mersin, Tarsus, Ceyhan,
and Iskenderun, Iller Bank (IB), and Cukurova Municipalities Training
Association (CMTA)
Amount:       US$120.0 million
Terms:        Seventeen years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate
Onlending     The Borrower would lend US$119 million to.IB, partly to finance the
Terms:     Project Review, Implementation, and Monitoring Unit (PRIMU) in IB and
technical assistance and equipment for IB, and partly for project
municipalities and their subsidiary WSDs and HUDCs. The Borrower would
deduct a one time fee of 2.75 percent from disbursements. IB and
sub-borrowers would repay on identical Ferms and conditions to the Bank
loan, except in the case of funds for HUDOs, which would be repaid to IB,
and by IB to the Borrower, approximately pro rata with HUDC land gales.
Subborrowers would bear the foreign exchange risk. The remainder of
project funds would be passed by Government to the Cukurova
Municipalities Training Association (CMTA) on a grant basis.
Project       The project would support the Government's policy to strengthen provi-
Description:  sion of local services through decentralization.  It would finance a part
of the infrastructure investment programs in five municipalities in
southern Turkey to be undertaken from 1987 to 1994. IB would appraise
and supervise the programs and monitor the creditworthiness of the
municipalities. The project would include: (a) area-based infrastructure
programs which would provide serviced land and upgrade services in
existing unplanned (gecekondu) areas with about 90,000 households, and
would in addition accommodate 86,000 new households, or about one half of
household growth forecast for the 1987-94 period in the project cities,
(b) trunk infrastructure and citywide engineering programs which would
link with the area-based program and help overcome deficiencies in
existing main networks for water, sanitation, drainage, roads and solid
waste management, (c) support for restructuring the municipalities and
strengthening their ability to plan and implement invest.ient programs,
operate and maintain existing facilities, and to manage their finances,
(d) development of a regional municipal training institute,
(e) assistance to IB with technical assistance (TA) and equipment.
Benefits and  The principal benefits of the project would be the improved
Risks:     services in the Cukurova municipalities and the development of policies
and practices which could be renlicated in other Turkish municipalities.
Over half of project expenditures would benefit households with incomes
below the Bank-defined urban poverty level. The main risk is that it may
be difficult to secure the staff needed to initiate many-of these
activities.  TA by Turkish and foreign consultants in the initial years
has been designed to help with implementation and training local staff.
A future reversal of the Government's decentralization policy would call
the project's viability into question, and possibly require its
restructuring.



- ii -
Projet C    Summat.
Local        Foreign        Total
-  -- --- US$ million ----
Municipal Level Programs
Area-Based Infrastructures
Urban Expansion Areas              47.9            13.5          61.4
Gecekondu Upgrading Areas          62.7            19.0          81.6
Housing Management Areas           15.1             4.6          19.7
Subtotal                      125.7            37.0        162.8
Citywide Infrastructures
Water and Sanitation               80.6            50.7         131.3
Drainage, Solid Waste & Roads      69.3            25.7          95.0
Subtotal                      149.9            76.4        226.2
Municipal Finance & Management            3.7            2.7           6.4
Subtotal, Municipal           279.3           116.1        395.4
Regional and National Components
Training of Municipal Staff               1.2            0.9           2.1
Iller Bank Technical Assistance and
Equipment                             0.5             2.7           3.2
Project Management                        4.8            1.1           5.9
Subtotal                        6.5             4.7          11.2
Total Baseline Cost                        205.8          120.8         406.6
Physical Contingencies                      24.5             9.2         33.6
Price Contingencies                         19.5             7.6         27.1
Total Project Cost "t/
a/ of which taxes are US$36.8 million
vinaneiAK Plan:
Municipalities                              74.7             0.0         74.7
Internal Cash Generation (WSD, HUDC)        11.2            0.0          11.2
Beneficiaries                               47.8            0.0          47.8
Iller Bank                                 104.6            0.0         104.6
Development Support Fund                    11.5             0.0         11.5
Government                                  37.4             9.6         47.0
Electricity and Telecommunications
Authorities                              42.5            8.0          50.5
IBRD                                         0.0          120.0         120.0
Total                                   329.8                        467.4
Estimated Disbursements:
~~~--in US$ million- - 
Bank Fiscal Year       1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual                 14.0   19.5   22.0   22.5   18.5    13.0    8.5    2.0
Cumulative             14.0   33.5   55.5   78.0   96.5   109.5  118.0  120.0
Economic rate of return is 30 percent on the 53 percent of costs for
which benefits could be quantified.



TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01     Half of Turkey's population now lives in cities and towns, and the
number of urban dwellers is growing at around 4.5 percent per year. Urban
areas produce about three quarters of GNP and are the country's main hope of
providing employment and incomes to a rapidly growing work force. Turkey's
cities suffer from inadequate urban infrastructure which constrains economic
growth and imposes heavy social costs. In the past, infrastructure
investments have been limited and policies determining design standards,
pricing, and cost recovery have not been adequate. Imbalances have resulted
from' responsibilities divided between Central Government agencies, which have
undertaken most of the infrastructure investments, and local authorities,
which have been responsible primarily for operation and maintenance. Heavy
overprogramming and poor coordination among these agencies have only
aggravated the problem of adequate infrastructure provision.
1.02     In its recent policy reforms, the Government of Turkey has taken a
number of initiatives aimed at meeting the urban service delivery challenge.
It has decentralized responsibilities for key municipal services to local
governments. It is also stepping up the resource flows to municipalities
while givitig them greater freedom to raise their own resources. In addition,
the roles and responsibilities of Central Government agencies are being
reviewed and revised.
1.03     The proposed project is designed to help the Government to refine and
implement its decentralization strategy through selective interventions in
five cities in the Cukurova region in southern Turkey. Rather than covering
the whole range of municipal activities, the project would have a narrower
focus and finance their infrastructure investment program over a six-year
period. The project would strengthen the five municipalities' ability to
plan, implement, operate, and maintain these services and improve their
resource mobilization and financial management. In parallel, it would take a
first step towards reorienting Iller Bank by establishing its capability to
appraise and supervise municipal investment programs. During preparation of
the proposed project, a blueprint for municipal reforms has been developed;
during implementation, selected policies and programs would be tested for
wider replication in Turkey.



-2-
B. Urbaization Trends
Population Growth and Spatial Distribution
1.04     In 1985, 25 million or 49 percent of the Turkish population (51
million) lived in cities and towns of 10,000 or more people. This represents
an almost sevenfold increase from 3.8 million (19 percent of total) in 1950
and a current annual rate of in^rease of about 4.5 percent. The rate of
urbanization shows few signs of slackening in the years ahead. In the medium
term, about half the anticipated urban population growth - currently some 1.2
million people a year -- will be due to natural increase and the other half
will be due to rural-urban migration. Betyeen 1962 and 1985, agriculture's
share of GDP fell from 38 percent to 20 percent, agricultural employment fell
from 9.7 million to 9.4 million, and the rural population grew at a modest
rate of about 0.6 percent. This structural transformation of the economy,
typical for countries at Turkey's income level, is expected to continue with
the urban areas attracting rural migrants in search of employment
opportunities in industry and services.
1.05     The urban population is well distributed among a network of major
cities and smaller towns. Slightly over one third lives in the three largest
cities: Istanbul (5.5 million), Ankara (2.3 million), and Izmir (1.5 million),
which together account for about 75 percent of the total number of
manufacturing plants (Istanbul including Marmara region 57 percent, Izmir 10
percent, and Ankara 8 percent). The three major metropolitan areas will
probably continue to grow at a slower rate than the medium-sized cities
(although absolute number of migrants will continue to be large). The cities
of Adana, Bursa, Gaziantep, and Konya -- all with populations in excess of
400,000 -  are emerging as poles of regional growth, absorbing peripheral
areas into the urban fabric as they expand. Som't 27 other cities have
populations in excess of 100,000.
1.06     Regional inequalities are of great concern to the Government, and its
regional development pollcy is centered around the objective of reducing the
disparities between provinces. The main explicit instruments in place for
this purpose are disincentives for industrial location in the three main
metropolitan areas, substantial incentives for locating factories and other
facilities in the less developed regions, and instructions to all ministries
to accord priority to these regions, particularly in their investments.
Nevertheless, it is not clear that these policies have significantly
influenced the location of private industry or employment growth. The main de
facto thrust in providing urban services is, rightly, to meet demands where
they exist.
Urban Service Delivery
1.07     Public sector investment allocations for urban infrastructure have
failed to meet the demands of a growing urban population. Furthermore,
planning and administrative tools have been inadequate to manage the growth of
the cities. The result has been the gecekondu phenomenon: unplanned
urbanization with insufficient water supply, sewerage facilities, and solid
waste collection, poor road surfacing, overcrowded public transport, few parks
and open spaces, and inadequate schools and health centers. These settlements
-- erected without permits and usually without individual titles -- represent



- 3 -
a market response to the scarcity of serviced land. They also reflect the
preference of recent migrants for single family homes rather than the
apartments that predominate in planned areas. Gecekondu areas have grown fro.m
50,000 dwelling units in 1955 to an estimated 1,000,000 in 1980. These
setttlements now form a dense maze of suburbs ringing Turkey's major cities
and account for an estimated two thirds of all housing in Ankara and half in
Istanbul.
1.08     Some progress has been made in extending the coverage of urban
services ta gecekondu settlements. About 75 percent of all urban households
have water and over 80 percent electricity. On the sanitation side, the
situation is more problematic: only 20 percent of the urban dwellings are
connected to public sewerage systems, and few cities have sewage treatment
facilities. Nevertheless, the backlog in urban services remains large in
absolute numbers.
1.09     Public transport is provided in most areas by public or private bus
companies or shared taxi cabs (dolmus). Road access in the low-income,
peripheral areas is usually poor because of inappropriate design, lack of
maintenance, and inadequate drainage. At the present time, only the three
major metropolitan centers suffer major traffic congestion; high-cost
solutions (arterial roads, rail transit) are under study for these cities.
Traffic and transport will become increasingly important issues in other
centers as incomes -- and car ownership rates -- increase.
1.10     Even where infrastructure is available, the quality of service is
poor, particularly for water, sewerage, and solid waste disposal. In many
towns, for example, more than half the water is unaccounted for and
interruptions in water supply are frequent. These conditions are the result
of inadequate finances of municipalities (in part due to low cost recovery for
services), the difficulty in hiring competent technical and administrative
staff, and a focus by Government on investing in new plant rather than
maintaining and improving existing facilities.
C. nstitutional Arrangements for Urban Management
Municipalities
1.11     Local services in Turkey are provided by a variety of central and
local authoritieR, with considerable overlap of responsibilities. The most
important local government institutions in urban areas are the 1,719
municipalities (serving 63 percent of the national population). Under the
Municipalities Law 1580 of 1930, they are responsible for a wide variety of
regulatory functions (including control of consumer prices, planning and
building licenses, business permits, health inspections, etc.), as well as
provision of local services (including slaughterhouses, gas works, bakeries,
markets, public transport, water and sanitation, roads, drainage, solid waste
collection and disposal, and electricity). The actual functions of municipa-
lities have evolved over time in response to technological change, relative
access to resources and skilled manpower by central versu£ local institutions,
and Government policy (para. 1.13 below). Electricity supply and distribution
have by now been largely transferred to the Turkish Electricity Authority
(TEK). Until recent policy changes, the Ille- Bank and the State Hydraulic



- 4 -
Works (DSI) were responsible for planning, financing, and implementing the
main water and sewerage infrastructure. Thus, of the major municipal
engineering services involving substantial investments, the municipalities
were left with road investments as their only responsibility. The ability of
municipalities to guide growth was also limited since the Ministry of
Reconstruction and Settlement was charged with preparing urban master plans.
1.12     Municipal authority resides in the elected assembly which approves
all budgets and major policies. Day-to-day administration is the
responsibility of the elected mayor, assisted by a council with statutory
membership of representatives of the assembly and specific municipal staff.
Municipal departments are grouped under up to four deputy mayors. Municipal
departmental structures vary tremendously as do staffing ratios for specific
functions. Low payscales -- regulated by the Central Government -- make the
hiring of experienced professional staff difficult. The present accounting
system, dating from 1930, provides no guidance on the cost of various
services. In addition to normal departments, municipalities typically include
one or more subsidiary organizations or departments (isletmes) to manage
revenue-earning services (water supply, public transport, gas works, etc.).
Their budgets, acounts, organizational structures, and personnel are
authorized separately from those of the municipality as a whole, although
their operations come under the authority of the mayor, council, and
assembly. The metropolitan municipalities (Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, and, as
of September 1986, Adana) are required by law to establish autonomous
organizations with their own boards (appointed by the municipalitie)8 to
handle water and sanitation. The Adana Water Authority, Adana Su .%
Kanalizasyon Idaresi (ASKI) was established by decree No. 87/11594 of
March 11, 1987.
Central Government Organizations
1.13     Overall control of local government is exercised by the Ministry of
Interior (MOI), to which the governors of the 67 provinces, subgovernors of
the 576 districts, and directors of the 887 communes report. Governors are
charged with coordinating all Central Government activities within their
provinces, including security. They review municipal budgets and exercise de
facto control over the Special Provincial Administrations (SPAs, which invest
in various local services beyond municipal boundaries, and execute works for
central ministries, especially education and health). MOI tutelage over
municipalities is vested in its Local Government Directorate (LGD). This
Directorate monitors municipal budgets and staffing, and provides training for
the staff of local government. It also supervises local government
controllers who are responsible for ensuring that expenditures are made in
conformity with budgets and laws.
1.14     Several other central agencies carry out urban services.  The
Ministry of Public Works and Settlement (MPWS) provides advice and training in
urban planning; it also defines mass transit policies and physical planning
standards to be followed by municipalities if they are to qualify for central
assistance or MPWS funds for land development under the Reconstruction Act.
It is the ministry to which the Iller Bank reports (para. 1.15 below). The
State Hydraulic Works (DSI) is responsible for investments in headworks and
water treatment works for centers with a population of 100,000 or more (being
increased in 1987 to 500,000 or more), which it then hands over to
municipalities for operation.



-5-
1.15     Iller Bank.  From the point of view of urtan investments, the most
significant central organization is the Iller Bank (Bank of Provinces).
Establishe: by Law No. 4759 of 1945, the Iller Bank had total assets of TL 330
billion (about US$590 million),"' and a staff of 3,250 at the end of 1985.
It currently fills three major roles:
(a) the channel for the share of total tax revenues transferred to
municipalities as a recurrent grant on the basis of population (see
para. 1.18 below);
(b) as a major public works agency, it carries out mapping, planning,
wiater and sewerage investments, miscellaneous buildings for local
governments, and electricity distribution investments for TEK. Heavy
overprogramming is indicated by the fact that investments came to TL
101.0 billion (US$194 million) in 1985, in 1,018 projects with a
total value of TL 1,204 billion (implying an average project
implementation period of at least 12 years). In 1986, Iller Bank's
investment program was set at TL 191.6 billion (US$286 million).
(c) as a bank, it makes loans from its own resources for projects it
executes as well as for works carried out by municipalities. It also
guarantees loans and equipment purchases by municipalities. Total
Iller Bank loans disbursed in 1985 came to TL 67.5 billion (US$129
million), and it had guarantees outstanding at the end of the year
amounting to TL 44.1 billion (US$76 million). At present, Iller Bank
does not appraise projects for which funding is sought, relying on
its control over recurrent transfers to ensure its loans are repaid.
1.16     The State Planning Organization (SPO) approves all municipal
investments over a certain amount (expenditures of TL 100 million (US$130,000]
or more in 1987), as well as any new municipal project with an estimated cost
of TL 1 billion (US$1.3 million) or more. SPO is also responsible for
approving the Iller Bank program and for monitoring implementation of projects.
Because SPO lacks sufficient staff, adequate techniques for updating cost
estimates to reflect inflation, and regular and reliable reports on physical
progress and expenditures, it has been unable to prevent systematic
overprogramming by Iller Bank and other agencies.
Central Government Financial Support to Municipalities
1.17     Municipalities have far-ranging duties, yet their ability to levy
taxes and impose charges is severely circumscribed. For example, until 1986,
the Central Government levied and collected the property tax. In 1985,
municipalities generated TL 157 billion (US$300 million) in taxes and fees and
raised another TL 250 billion (US$480 million) through their public utility
entities.  Because of the rapidly growing ser ice needs of the urban
population, a number of instruments have been created for the financing of
urban infrastructure and for support of the municipalities' day-to-day
operations. However, until recently, the municipalities' own resources and
the transfers from the Central Government have failed to keep pace with
1/ Assuming year end exchange rate of TL 560/dollar. Average 1984 exchange
rate is assumed at TL 380/dollar, 1985 at TL 522/dollar, and the 1986 rate
at TL 670/dollar.



demand. Between 1950 and 1980, years in which the urban population grew
rapidly. revenues of municipalities were relatively constant at 9 percent of
the state budget. The result was that between 1960 and 1980 per capita
municipal revenues declined by 25 percent in real terms. This pattern has now
been reversed by the Government's decentralization policies.
1.18     Two revenue-sharing programs are the main vehicles for recurrent
transfers to municipalities: (a) 6 percent of total Governrent tax revenues
are transferred to all municipalities on the basis of their population (TL 226
billion or about US$430 million in 1985), and (b) 5 percent of all Central
Government taxes collected within the metropolitan areas are returned to the
metropolitan municipalities in these areas (TL 109 billion or about US$210
million in 1985).
1.19     Additional financial support to municipalities is provided through
the investment programs of Iller Bank and DSI. One third of Iller Bank's
works are financed through loans from the Municipal Fund (which is itself
funded by 2 percent of all Government taxes and 5 percent of petrol
consumption taxes): these loans have maturities of up to 30 years and carry
no interest charge. Somewhat over one quarter of Iller Bank's works are
financed through regular long-term loans (15-25 years) from Iller Bank that
carry a 16 percent interest rate. The remainder of its works is financed
through advances (with various maturities and interest rates ranging from 16
to 70 percent) and contributions from TEK. Normally, the major water supply
works constructed by DSI -- and financed through the Government investment
budget - are handed over to the municipalities who will repay the cost over
30 years at zero percent interest.
1.20     All three funds of the tax-financed Public Participation and Mass
Housing Fund Administration, which was established in 1984, work in urban
areas. The Public Participation Fund (PPF), which is parily financed by
revenue bonds, recently has provided finance to the DSI for water supply works
in Ankara and Istanbul; the Development Support Fund (DSF), among its other
activities, lends to municipalities for land acquisition (land purchase loans
are repaid with a premium of 10 percent when the land is sold); and the Mass
Housing Fund (MHF) is the principal source of mortgage credit to low-income
faMilies (below TL 1.7 million annual income). MHF received about TL 268
billion (about US$566 million) in 1984 and 1985, and is expected to have
received about TL 293 billion (US$437 million) in 1986. From its
establishment in 1984 through the end of September 1986, it provided finance
for some 360,000 housing units (this compares with an increase in urban
households over the same period on the order of 580,000).
D. Government's Urban Policies
Overview
1.21     The preceding sections demonstrate that urban growth during the
post-war period has largely been an unmanaged process in which the centralized
system for urban planning and infrastructure proyisions has failed to respond
adequately to rapid population and industrial growth.
1.22     In the early and mid-1980s, in order to overcome past service
deficiencies and acommodate future growth the Government: (a) decentralized



- 7 -
responsibilities for planning, design, financing, and implementation of key
urban services to municipalities and (b) increased the resource flows to
municipalities and giving them greater freedom to raise their own resources.
The Government recognizes that for these policies to succeed, local
governments need to be significantly strengthened, and the roles and
capabilities of Central Government institutions need to be reshaped.
Municipal Strengthening
1.23     Finances:  The strengthening process began with increases in revenues
allocated to municipalities. Increases since 1980 in revenue sharing,
devolution of the property tax (in 1986), and increases in tax rates and
tariffs for services, conservatively estimated,. are likely to double the
resources going to municipalities in the five-year plan period covering
1985-89 compared with the last. According to available information, total
municipal receipts in 1986 (paras. 1.17-1.18) were about TL 742 billion (about
US$1,420 millioa), or about 16 percent of Central Government consolidated
budget revenues compared to about 9 percent as recently as 1982. In addition,
they were beneficiaries of stepped-up investments on their behalf by Iller
Bank and DSI. Additional loan funds were also made available through the
Public Participation and Mass Housing Fund Administration (para. 1.20).
1.24     Notwithstanding the present buoyancy of municipal revenues, local
resource generation remains a critical issue. Among the significant steps
taken by the Central Government to expand the municipal tax base are:
devolving the property tax and increasing its rate (in 1987, this will be 0.4
percent of the value of residential buildings, 0.5 percent of other buildings,
and 0.6 percent of land), granting permission to charge for sewerage services,
and doubling (to 2 percent of property value) the allowable charges to recover
costs of municipal improvements (in roads and sidewalks, and water and
sewerage). The 1985 abolition of outright Government grants for municipal
capital works was also intended to increase the efficiency of resource
allocation by ensuring greater cost recovery (these grants came to TL 18.5
billion, or US$49 million, in 1984).
1.25     Institutional Strengthening.  The mux)icipalities require
institutional strengthening to perform their traditional as well as their new
functions. The key areas for improvement are: (a) investment planning,
design, and implementation; (b) accounting and financial management; and
(c) operation and maintenance of municipal engineering services. A systematic
program for staff development and training will be needed and, in many cases,
the use of contract employment for key technical and managerial personnel.
Furthermore, to permit more effective discharge of responsibilities, a
rationalization of municipal organizational structure is required, including
in some cases, establishment of new entities (isletmes or sirkets which are
companies established under the commercial code) to handle certain functions
(for example, water, sewerage, and land development). Draft municipal
legislation, expected to go before the national assembly in the near future,
is designed to facilitate these improvements.
Central Government Agencies
1.26     Decentralization means redefining the role of Central Government
institutions now active in municipal affairs. Rather than executing local
works, Central Government agencies will increasingly support municipalities by



(a) defining overall financing frameworks and investment priorities,
(b) establishing guidelines for local agencies to follow in designing and
operating services, (c) providing advisory and technical services,
(d) appraising and approving projects for which Central Government funding is
sought, and (e) gathering data on the performance of municipalities in
delivering services with a view to feeding this back into decisions on
resource allocation, appraisal criteria, and advice to municipalities.
Abolition of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement, aliocation of
its planning responsibilities to municipalities, and incorporation of its
training, advisory, and standards setting functions in the Ministry of Public
Works and Settlement (MPWS), was a first and major step in this direction.
1.27     The role of the Iller Bank is presently under review.  The last two
years have seen several changes in legislation designed to facilitate the
servicing of gecekondu settlements, including simplification of the procedures
for regularizing their planning and cadastral status (thereby making them
eligible for public services and susceptible to cost recovery mechanisms), and
adoption by the MPWS of planning and infrastructure design standards which are
likely to be more afrordable to beneficiary communities than previous
standards.
E. The Cukuova Municipalities
1.28     The Cukurova region was selected for the project because it
exemplifies the problems of rapid urban growth and service deficiencies, and
because future growth in this important area will be jeopardized if services
are not provided more efficiently. The region comprises the agriculturally
rich Cukurova Plain within the provinces of Icel, Adana, and Hatay (see Map
IBRD No. 20386). These provinces recorded a population of 3.8 million at the
time of the 1985 census, having grown at a rate of 3.5 percent per annum since
1945 (compared with the national growth rate of 2.5 percent). The five cities
included in the proposed project had a 1985 population of 1.5 million, or
about 6 percent of the country's urban total. Since 1945, they have grown at
5.3 percent per annum (compared with about 4.5 percent for all centers with
10,000 or more population). This growth has recently accelerated, reaching
6.2 percent from 1980 to 1985, and currently adds about 90,000-100,000 persons
per annum. Adana, with a population of 776,000, is the fourth largest city in
Turkey. The other four cities that would be included in the proposed project
are: Mersin (314,000), Iskenderun (174,000), Tarsus (160,000), and Ceyhan
(77,000).
1.29     Population growth in this region has eesponded to economic growth,
and both are expected to continue above the national averages in the future.
Migrants from the surrounding agricultural areas make up more than half of the
urban population increase. Many new urban dwellers were enticed from Eastern
Turkey by prospects of seasonal employment in Cukurova agriculture and have
remained in the region and joined the industrial labor force. Economic growth
in Cukuro a was initially based exclusively on agriculture (irrigated cotton
and a variety of food crops) and agriculture-linked industries and services.
In the last two decades, heavy industries (the largest steel plant in Turkey,
fertilizers, and a refinery), light industries to serve the region, its
hinterland, and export markets, and transshipment (especially to the Middle
East) have become important economic activities. The region is anchored at
either end by the ports of Mersin and Iskenderun, with additional ports at



- 9 -
Yumurtalik (fertilizers), Dortyol (pipeline terminus), and Isdemir (steel
mill). A new free zone has been established at Mersin, and another is being
planned for Yumurtalik, the terminus of the new Iraq-Turkey natural gas
pipeline. Although exports to Middle Eastern export markets are not, for the
moment, a major source of growth, other developments in the hinterland, such as
the Ataturk Dam and southeast Anatolia project, promise to cre.te substantial
future demands for the region's transport, industrial, and service sectors.
1.30     Urban service deficiencies stunt welfare and growth prospects.  Almost
half of the populations of the five largest Cukurova cities live in gecekondus,
with higher proportions in the larger centers (Adana - 58 percent, Mersin - 47
percent, Tarsus - 40 percent, Iskenderun - 30 percent). Some gecekondus are
built on squatted public land (mainly in Iskenderun). Unoccupied public lands
have largely disappeared and most building is now on private land subdivided
and sold without planning approvals. The majority of these settlements are
served (formally or informally) with water and electricity, some with roads,
but few with sewers (92 percent of households are connected with public water
systems, of which 15 percent are illegal, and 18 percent with sewer systems).
The low-lying areas with high water tables where most gecekondus are located
and where water is drawn from irlividual wells, face particularly high health
risks from poor sanitation. Drainage is also a problem in large parts of these
cities, and malaria, after being eradicated in the 1960s$ has reemerged as a
major health threat in recent years. Unmanaged urban garbage dumps also pose a
hazard. Lack of basic infrastructures - water, electricity, and
telecommunications - increasingly constrain development of light industry (in
particular), although major increases in power and telecommunications are
planned or underway. With growth in the number of motor vehicles at over 11
percent per annum in the Cukurova provinces, traffic will require increasing
attention in the near term if costs of transporting people and goods are to be
restrained. Disposal of industrial effluents has not yet become a major issue,
although it is likely to emerge as one, in response to greater density of
industry, use of more chemicals, and rising consciousness of environmental
matters in Turkey.
F. Bank Goals, Role, and LendinE Strategy
Past Operations
1.31     The Bank's urban-related sector work and lending operations in Turkey
have been limited until recently. Sector work to date comprises an urban
sector review (Report No. 4631-TU, 1983), a review of the housing finance
system, and a water subsector strategy paper. Urban policies and programs were
reviewed as part of a recent public investment review. Urban-related lending
operations have included the Istanbul Urban Development Project (Credit 324-TU,
$2.3 million, 1972, closed 1980) which financed studies to prepare an
integrated urban development program for Istanbul, the Istanbul Water Supply
Project (Loan 844-TU, $37 million, 1972, closed 1981), and the Istanbul
Sewerage project (Loan 2159-TU, 1982, $88.1 million). Credit 324-TU was
unsuccessful in its main objective, largely because of overoptimism about the
ease with which institutional changes could be achieved to strengthen
investment planning at the Istanbul metropolitan level. The water and sewer
operations have been fairly well implemented and have largely achieved their
institution building objectives, in part due to changes in Central Government
policies. Lessons drawn from the Istanbul Water Supply Project included the



- 10 -
need to address the problem of unaccounted for water and institutional
strengthening and training. These lessons have been incorporated in the
proposed Cukurova Urban Development Project. The Cukurova Region Urban
Engineering Loan (Loan 2537-TU, $9.2 million, 1985) financed preparation of the
proposed project, as well as studies on Iller Bank management and equipment for
the Cadastral Office to accelerate completion of the cadastre in Cukurova
region (see also para. 1.27).
Lending Strategy
1.32     The basic objective of the Bank's lending strategy is to assist the
Government in its decentralization policy and help build up the capabilities of
municipalities and their subsidiary organizations such as ISKI. At the same
time, the lending operations are designed to extend the coverage of basic
municipal services and to strengthen resource mobilization at the local level
to ensure replicability and improved self-financing.
Project Origin and Preparation Performance
1.33     The Government stated its interest in the proposed project during the
March 1984 discussions of the Urban Sector Review.  A Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) to manage project preparation was established in late 1984 under the
State Planning Organization. It was headed by a UNDP-financed project director
and staffed by Turkish consultants. Separate consultants prepared feasibility
studies between April 1985 and August 1986 in time for appraisal in
October/November, 1986.
1.34     Important achievements towards developing and implementing the new
urban policies and programs were made during project preparation. One
innovation for the management of urban growth was the creation of Housing and
Urban Development Corporations (HUDCs) that will, on a self-financing basis,
develop infrastructure for urban expansion areas. Similarly, systematic
approaches were developed for guiding the growth of spontaneous settlements and
for providing them with basic services in a coordinated manner. These
innovations set the stage for the three area-based programs under the project:
(a) urban expansion, (b) housing management, and (c) gecekondu upgrading.
Lower cost planning and design standards were adopted for on-site
infrastructures in the area-based programs and for the design of citywide water
and sewerage systems. Major steps have been taken by the municipalities to
restructure their organizations. Legislation has been changed to facilitate
upgrading of informal housing areas and to allow a doubling of the amount which
can be recovered from beneficiaries of municipal improvements. Government
awareness has increased about the need to improve municipal accounting and
financial management practices (new systems have so far been introduced on a
pilot basis in four municipalities), and to revise the role of the Iller Bank
(assisted by a study financed under the engineering loan). The Iller Bank has
created a Project Review, Implementation, and Monitoring Unit that will assess
the viability of individual subprojects and the continued creditworthiness of
project municipalities. The PCU has been closely involved in drafting new
municipal legislation which would modernize local government organization and
operations along the lines supported by the project. Sewerage charges have
been introduced, progressive water tariffs begun and, in four out of the five
project municipalities, water tariffs have been increased significantly. Key
steps have beer taken to establish the institutions which will be responsible
for different project components.



- 11 -
H. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
2.01     The proposed project is formulated within the framework of the
Government's decentralization policy. Its main objectives are to:
(a) assist the municipalities of Adana, Mersin, Tarsus, Iskenderun, and
Ceyhan to overcome service deficiencies and manage urban growth
through the financing of urban infrastructure;
(b) introduce in the five project municipalities policies and
institutional arrangements for investment planning and
implementation, cost recovery, financial management, and staff
development which would be suitable for replication in other Turkish
cities; and
(c) build up in Iller Bank a capacity for appraisal and monitcring of
municipal infrastructure projects and investment programs.
B. Main Features of the Project
2.02.    The project would finance part of the 1987-94 segment of the project
muaicipalities' investment programs in basic engineering services. These
investment programs were originally developed during project preparation and
would be updated and revised annually to respond to changing demands and
resources. The investment programs were designed to address service needs in
a systematic, coordinated manner with special emphasis given to present and
future resource constraints. This involved, inter alia, analyses and
projections of local revenue collection, Central Government revenue sharing
and lending, recurrent expenditures, and investment needs in sectors not
covered by the proposed project.
2.03     Iller Bank would review the investment programs on an annual basis,
assess the municipalities' continued creditworthiness, appraise subprojects
submitted for Central Government funding, and monitor implementation, through
its Project Review and Monitoring Unit (PRIMU) (see paras. 3.14-3.17 below).
2.04     The municipal investments to be financed under the project would help
direct urban growth and catch up on service deficiencies through coordinated
area-based programs for construction of secondary and tertiary infrastructure
and through extension of major trunk (i.e., primary) infrastructure and
improvements in engineering services on a city scale. The main components are:
(a) The area-based infrastructure programs, which would deal with three
different situations: (i) in the urban expansion areas, large tracts
of unbuilt land would be developed for subsequent sale for
construction of houses (in parallel, the Government would provide the
necessary social facilities); (ii) in the housing management areas,
spontaneous private development would be guided and regularized, and
the basic infrastructure and social facilities provided; and (iii) in
the geCekondu upgrading areas, land tenure would be regularized and
infrastructure deficiencies corrected. In the urban expansion areas,
the cost would be recovered through the price of developed land; in



- 12 -
the privately owned areas, through betterment and connection
charges. The area-based programs would help tQ arrest the
establishment of new gecekondu areas while at the same time upgrading
the infrastructure for about 90,000 existing gecekondu households and
providing services for some 86,000 new households or about 50 percent
of the new households in these cities from 1986 to 1994.
(b)  The trunk infrastructure and citywide engineering programs, which
would provide linkages to the area-based programs and help overcome
deficiencies in the existing main networks for water, sanitation,
drainage, roads, and solid waste management. They would include
works, equipment, design, and supervision services.
(c) The institutional development program, which would support a
restructuring of the municipalities and strengthen their ability to
plan and implement investment programs, to operate and maintain
existing facilities, and to manage their finances. This component
would include equipment and selected technical assistance to the five
municipalities and to the PRIMU, and the establishment of a regional
training center for municipal staff. Chapter III, on institutional
development, describes the new institutional structure which would be
supported by the project.
C. Detailed Project Descrption
2.05     The PRIMU of the Iller Bank would be responsible for appraising all
subprojects. Since, however, it would take time for the PRIMU to build up its
capacity, the World Bank has assessed the initial creditworthiness of the
municipalities and appraised the overall municipal development programs, most
major subprojects and, especially, the subprojects for which contracts would
be issued during the first two years of implementation. Because urban growth
in the project municipalities is highly dynamic it is likely that priorities
and resource constraints will change over time, necessitating changes in
municipal investment programs. Thus, the quantitative descriptions below
indicate the size and composition of the project as presently envisaged.
Area-Based Urban Development
2.06     Urban Expansion Areas (1987 base cost US$61.4 million).  The newly
created Housing and Urban Development Corporations (paras. 3.11-3.12 below)
would develop large tracts of land located at the present urban fringes
covering some 491 hectares (Mersin 248 ha, Tarsus 98 ha, Iskenderun 107 ha,
and Ceyhan 38 ha) in the first phase, 1987-93. The project would provide for
the purchase, planning, subdivision, and servicing of plots for about 25,000
households or 125,500 inhabitants at prices which are affordable to all income
groups, with at least one half of the land priced for families in the lower
half of the income distribution.- Sites for the Urban Expansion Areas
(UEAs) were selected on the basis of land availability, proximity to
employment opportunities, and costs for site preparation and off-site
infrastructure development. The UEAs would also include land for community
facilities and commercial/light industrial uses. In parallel, the Government
1/ Adana HUDC is developing about 285 ha with about 16,900 households without
Bank finance. Costs of off-site roads, and water provided by the
municipality, would be financed under the project, and are included in the
project costs in Table 2.1.



- 13 -
would construct community and emergency centers, schools, and health
facilities. The Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) and Posts and
Telecommunications office (PTT) would install electricity and telephones. To
achieve the goals of affordability and replicability, the UEAs would adopt
less costly land use planning and engineering design standards than previously
applied in Turkey. The average cost of this program would be about US$118,000
per ha.
2.07     Housing Management Areas (US$19.7 million).  The project would
support new planning, management, and financial procedures to ensure that
tenure is regularized and infrastructure is installed according to appropriate
planning standards in privately owned and informally subdivided areas which
would otherwise become gecekondus. About 36,000 new households would be
located in these areas. They are located near infrastructures which would be
provided through the area-based infrastructure and the gecekondu upgrading
programs. Average cost would be about US$22,000 per ha.
2.08     Gecekondu Upgrading Areas (US$81.6 million).  The e:disting informal
housing in the Cukurova region amounts to some 145,000 dwellings, of which
about 90,000 would benefit from the project. The Adana, Mersin, Tarsus, and
Iskenderun municipalities would develop and implement a rolling program of
upgrading through the granting of land titles, revision of zoning regulations.
and provision of access and circulation roads, water supply and sanitation,
drainage, and refuse collection. In parallel, the Government would build
additional community facilities (i.e., schools, health, and community
centers), and TEK and PTT would supply electricity and telephone service.
This program would be closely coordinated with primary infrastructure
improvements. The upgrading program would encourage densification in existing
neighborhoods by developing infill plots and vacant sites which would
accommodate about 25,000 new households or some 14 percent of new households
up to 1994. It is anticipated that during the project period all gecekondus
would be upgraded in Iskenderun, and that continuation of the program would
have the same result in Mersin and Tarsus by 1995 and Adana by 2000. The
average cost of this program would be about US$38,000 per ha.
Municipal Engineering Programs '
2.09     Water SupPly (US$72.5 million).  This component would provide:
(a) water source development through renovation of some 22 existing municipal
tubewells in Adana, construction of about 48 new wells in Adana (36) and
Iskenderun (12), chlorination and pumping facilities, and hydrogeological
investigations; (b) distribution networks comprising some 125 km of primary
transmission and feeder mains, about 560 km of secondary and tertiary
distribution mains together with some 146,000 m3 of storage capacity;
(c) tools and equipment, vehicles, and professional services for improved
operation and maintenance, metering, leak detection, and reduction of illegal
connections. In total, it is estimated that some 190,000 households would be
connected to the water supply networks under the various programs.
2.10     Sanitation (US$58.8 million).  The proposed project would finance:
(a) first phase sewage treatment plants (anaerobic ponds) in Adana, Tarsus,
and Ceyhan (the development of complete treatment facilities would follow in
the mid-1990s); (b) new or modified discharge facilities in Adana, Mersin,
1/ These components are presented in more detail in Annex 1.



- 14 -
and Ceyhan; (c) some 115 km of trunk sewers with associated outfalls and
lift/pumping facilities; (d) about 540 km of secondary and tertiary networks;
and (e) oceanographic investigations for sea outfalls and professional services
for wastewater management (including management of industrial effluents and
sewerage treatment). Complemented by ongoing Iller Bank works, the various
project financed programs would extend municipal sewerage services to about
320,000 households.
2.11     Drainage (US$15.6 million).  All the project cities have combined
sewerage and drainage systems. The proposed project would continue to use
suitable sections of the existing system and provide separate stormwater
drainage works only in areas where local topographical conditions create major
drainage problems. The works would include: (i) rehabilitation of existing
systems by providing gullies, catch basins, gratings etc. and, where necessary,
removing silt and other blockages; and (ii) construction of some 150 km of
drains.
2.12     Solid Waste Management (US$11.5 million).  The project aims to improve
the efficiency of the existing service through organizational restructuring
(see paras. 3.04-3.05 below), improvements in collection, and establishment of
sanitary means of waste disposal. Disposal is in open dumps in all towns
except Mersin, which uses a composting plant. The proposed project includes
funds for acquiring and equipping the necessary disposal sites in all towns
(Ceyhan's disposal site is acquired). Improvements in sorting would be made at
the existing compost plant in Mersin. In Mersin, Tarsus, Ceyhan, and
Iskenderun, the project would finance a total of over 50 vehicles and sweepers,
and about 10,000 containers. (Adana has contracted out most collection,
retaining some municipal capacity in the central areas.)
2.13     Transportation (US$67.9 million).  The roads and transport
subcomponents would consist of two major elements: (a) a program for road
maintenance in all towns, and (b) the upgrading or construction of about 40 km
of roads, together with junction improvements, and pedestrian overpasses in
Adana, Mersin, Tarsus, and Iskenderun. The road maintenance element would span
two years of work to correct major existing deficiencies, develop a routine and
periodic maintenance regime including the reshaping of road profiles,
restoration of pavement strength, and provision of appropriate road drainage
systems, and provide professional services to assist with design and
implementation.
Institutional Development
2.14     Municipal Finance and Management (US$6.4 million)., Most components of
the project would include measures to strengthen the capacity of the
municipalities to plan, implement, operate, and maintain engineering services.
Although reorganization and staffing plans were developed during project
preparation and implementation is now underway (paras. 3.01-3.09 below), the
project would include a small provision for technical assistance (expected to
be carried out primarily by Turkish consultants) to the municipalities in
various management tasks. The municipal finance components of the project
would aim to upgrade the financial management of the project municipalities and
their water supply departments as required by the increased responsibility
devolved to these agencies under the decentralization policy. In addition, the
component would provide technical assistance, on-the-job and in-service
training, and some computer equipment and software, to support strengthened
municipal finance departments to introduce new financial and accounting



- 15 -
procedures. The computers to be ptrchased under the project would extend the
computerization program initiated during the Engineering Loan (2537-TU).
2.15     Municipal Staff Training (US$2.1 million).  A major difficulty in the
implementation of the Government's decentralization policy is the lack of
trained and experienced staff in the municipalities. The project would adopt a
comprehensive approach to manpower development and training including the
establishment of a training institute operated by the Cukurova Municipalities
Training Association (CMTA) (para. 3.13 below) and the creation of manpower
development departments in each municipality (para. 3.07 below). The institute
would be housed in rented facilities during the project period. A Training
Implementation Unit (TIU) would help establish the institute, prepare courses
and teaching materials, ar.d train its staff (including managing the initial
training cycles). Between 1987 and 1992, the CMTA would develop and provide
courses on a continuing basis to about 4,800 trainees, 3,500 of whom would
participate in courses lasting one or more weeks. The critical skills gaps
tend to be managerial rather than technical. Therefore, the initial emphasis
of the training will be on management, the programming of project and
maintenance work in different departments, and staff supervision, as well as on
skills needed to reinforce management and planning activities, namely
accounting and stock control. The TIU would be allocated approximately 285
manmonths of professional services (about one quarter by foreign experts) in
trainer training, course and materials development, evaluation and testing,
educational technology, and civil engineering. Twenty-three manmonths of
overseas fellowships (for seven trainees) would also be provided to train
full-time staff of the CMTA and of the Turkish TIU team. About 70 manmonths of
fellowships in Turkey on the subjects of program planning and budgeting, and
manpower planning and development would also be undertaken.
2.16     Iller Bank (US$9.1 million).  The project would support the staffing
of the PRIMU with contract employees, including short-term technical assistance
inputs in finance and certain engineering specialties. Provision would also be
made for technical assistance to Iller Bank to assist with implementing changes
in its operations. Iller Bank intends to computerize its accounts, and a
provision for this is included in the loan. The finalization of the computer
system would await decision on Iller Bank's future role and functions.
Proposals on this were made by consultants financed under the Engineering Loan,
and discussions within the Government are continuing on which option to adopt.
Under the action plan agreed at negotiations (Annex 4), a decision on this
matter is expected by December 31, 1987.
D. Project Costs
2.17     Table 2.1 below shows a breakdown of cost estimates by major component
and by town. Further details are contained in Annex 2. Project cost estimates
are based mainly on detailed engineering designs for the first phase urban
expansion schemes and for pilot schemes of gecekondu upgrading. Costs for the
remaining components are based on preliminary layout plans and engineering
designs. The base line costs are end-1986 price levels. Physical contingencies
are estimated at 5 to 15 percent based on the level of design and site specific
information. The price contingencies have been estimated as follows: for
local expenditures, 25 percent in 1987, 20 percent in 1988 and 1989, .18 percent
in 1990 and 1991, and 16 percent thereafter; for foreign expenditures, 3
percent in 1987, 1 percent in 1988-90, and 3.5 percent thereafter.



- 16 -
Table 2.1: PROJECT COST TABLE
I total                                         I toitl
I  o O m Io                                  fot.tgn  Osat,
twoa I foreign,  total   Esolafig   Costs    tocal   Foreign   total   E.ohaeig   Costs
oun"  EXPANSION ANA                           1,515.4    896.   2,t112.         36       *   2, 153.8  I. I35.6  3.349,5         36 
GECERONOU oUP loRoI                          21.94.1. I    SO.606  28,149. 9    23       9   M. 260.1I     IlOi..I IL 061. 2     23       9
1189111 SEIVLOPREUT mn*NONIUT                5.648I   1. 896.2  7.36.0          2s       2    1,531.6  2,208.3   9 140. 0        23       2
RUNicipIE SERVICES MAIER a S*N1T*TIONI       25,708.9  19,607.2  41.316. I      43      IS  34,361.5S  2. 145.3  60,130.8        43      Is
071111 11646813136 SERvicES                  21,520.4  7. 728.   33, 216.5      23      It  34,02? 2  10.311.5  44,344. 7        23      II
NUNICIP*L FI11NA1 M11 11*1*031                  W1.$    130.0   1,641.6         44       I   1,211.6    613.4  2. 18.2           44
Sub-Total *0*MU                                81.432.3  3122. g2 I1866l.95        31      39  108171L.4  49.6IL".@  11S2 15. 4     3t      is
&. TARSU
Una*1 EXPANSION *3*                          S.98S. 1   1,641.2   7,626.3       22       3   7,960.1  2. I66. 2  10,1I68.,4      22       3
GECENON1OU P0MA3I11                           4.511. 0   1.90I.? I   &044.?1    21       2   6,043. 4   2, 010. 3   6.016.?7     25       2
11045111 oEvItolO'EN  NOAN*GENET             1.e12.3    406.1   16881.4        25       I   1583. 0      121.5S  2.508.)        25       I
UNOICIPA. SERvicES MAIER3 a SANITATION        1 7420.4   3,681.6  1 I. 102.2    33       4   9,863.9  4.109. I 14.603.0          33       4
OTNER EIGIGNCEEING SEAVICES                   7,745.0  3.286. 3  11,014.4       30       4   10, 328.0  4,311.80  14. 66.68      30       4
IUNICIP*l FINANCE Age0 NOA11ENEN                461.1    319.9    I7I.0         44       0      614.9    10".3   1, 16C.3        44       0
ShTb-otaI TARSUS                               27,192.0  10,648. 0  3*140.0        28      13  3678. `1.3  14.510.3  St. 3816       26      13
C. 1111513
Una*1 LIPANSION AREA                         17,0612. 9   5,144.0  22,200.9     23       1  22,750.6  6,6858. 7  29,609. 3       23       7
6ACERONDOUPGRADING11                         15,329.3   4,401.2  19, 730. S     22       6  20,439.0  1,868. 3  26,307.3         22'      6
HWSINS OEVELOPNEOT N*NAGENEIN                 2,124.1     798. 4   3,282.5      i3       I   3,3895,   1,011.2  4.3761.?         23       I
NUNICIP*t SERVICES (WATER 8 ;AuITATlION      13,945.6   8,7I.15.  20,681.1      33       7   Is8,194.3   L 914. 3  21.548.?      33       7
0OTHER INOMINEEII1  SERVICES                 10,8M. 3   4,391.4  15, 276. 7     21       S   14,513.17 S 9811.3  20,369. 0       21       5
NlINICIP*t'FIN*NCE 810 11AN1*1681T             133. 1    376.9    910.0,        41       0      110.7    502. 6   1,213.3        4 1      0
SubI-total 1113111                              60204  21,87.7  62,0661.2          27      2?  800,313.9  2.0,00.3 I0.,424. 3       27      21
0. CEYNAN
Una*1 EXPANSION AREA                          1,6. 0.2    559.4  2,421.5        23        1   2, 486.3    741,8  3,234.1         23       I
NUNICIPAL SERVICES (11*71 8 S81117TINI"       2,610. 4   1. 480.?  4. "I. 1     31        I   3,747.2   1,974.3  1.721.1         35 
OTHER E11OI11EEIN6 sERVICEs                   2,460.6   1,064.1  3.2,125.       30        I   3,260.81  1, 41.9  4.700.?         30 
NIJ1ICIP*L FINANCE A110 1811411511              301.3     112.3    139.5S       32       0      489.?    229.?      lit93        32       0
Sub-Totel CEIHAN                                 7, 904. 5   3,277.2  I1..781.?1   30       4   Is,006,0  4, 366. 1  14,3715,6      30       4
1. 151E30(1II
111*1 EZP*1l5101 ARIA                         9,417.5   1,811.9  II.,289.5       l       4   12.5S&188   2,495.9  IS. 012.? I     ?       4
UCECEROhI UPORADINI                           S.,198.I  1.O,705.7  9.94.?1      25       2   6.931.9   2,574.3   9, 206.2        25       2
HOUSING11 OEVELOPIIEN  II*N*OINT              1,164.4    5682   2,330.6         24       I   2, 312.5     M1. 0   3, 107.5       24 
IWNICIPAL SERVICES (mAtERl a S*NIT*TIUOI     10,463.8  6.137. 7  17. 001. S     38       6   13.911.8  6.716.   22.666. 7        38       6
OTHER ENGIN1EERING SERVICES                   9,351.1   2,187.6  6. 130.9       34       3   1. 134.6. 3,7117.0  10,8951. 9      34       3
NUNICIPAL FINANCE MD NAN*6IIEt                  468. I    316.2    641.3        41       0      624.1    S"10.3  I. I28.4        41       0
S~~OA *aI6 ISRENOEIUN                           32.643,9  13,8$47.5  46,11t1.59    30      IS  43.351.9  18,463.5  62,015.4         30      is
F. N*110118  *110 REGIONAL
TRAINING                                       560.2     706.4   1,168.5        45       I   1,173.6    944.5  2,118. I          45
itILE G    ?A15 AND10 ZUIPIIEII                393.0   2,013.3   2,408.3        64       I      524.0   2,664,4  3,208. 4        84 
Sub-fatal NA1IONAL aMD 3t6104*1                  1,273.2   2,721. 1.3994.9         Go        I   1,7. 2.6   3,9828.9  5,326.9       Of 
a. PROJCT NANAGERNIIT
PRJECT REVISE INPtEN. NOWTORI11G UNIT         3.600.1 I   23.8  4, 423. 9       Is       I   4.4800.1   1,0OI8.4  5,898.5        19       I
Sub-total PROJECT NA*11A5611                     3.60 I    823.8   4,423.9         t9        I   4.600. I  1,098. 4   5,698.5       19       1
Total 91S1L111 COSTS                            214. 346. 5  90. 639. 3 304. "I. 7   30    100 285, 199.3 120,647. 0 406.642. 3       30    100
Physical Contlfgncmi"                          18,344.3   6,876. 3  25. 220. S    27       8  24,419.0  6. I66,3  33.621,4         27       6
Price Conti go ci.                            212. 194.3  81,821.3 294,015. 6     28      O6   19,543.3  1,569.5  27. 113.0        26       7
Total PRJECT COSTS                              444.885. 0 119. 332.9 624. 211.      29    205  329. 707.6 137,85. 0 467. 382. 7      29    III
2*2?:?:S2 ***222it  2318::::: ::3222:32 23:32::  a2232::2 :ssts:ttsza :2:8:2123    ztt : T:222:,;:::



- 17 -
2.18     Design and construction supervision have been estimated at 6 percent
of works and equipment costs (8 percent of upgrading and housing management
components); together with surveys and special investigations (hydrogeology
etc.), they are estimated at about US$28.3 qillion (including contingencies).
Technical assistance and training are estimated at aboutUS$11.3 million
(including contingencies).
2.19     The foreign exchange component for the total project is estimated at
US$137.6 million. This reflects assumptions made about goods to be imported
and works contracts to be awarded to foreign and local contractors and the
average foreign cost component of locally manufactured goods and equipment.
Costs include excise and sales taxes, which come to about 7.9 percent of
project cost.
E. Finaneing Plan
2.20     The financing plan is summarized in table 2.2, which shows the
sources of finance by agency. Agreement was confirmed at negotiations
regarding the arrangements set out in this section (paras. 2.20 to 2.24
below). World Bank funds for Iller Bank, municipal, HUDC, and water and
sanitation department (WSD) components would be relent by the Treasury, on
payment of a 2.75 percent service fee, under a subsidiary loan agreement (SLA)
to the Iller Bank which would establish a special Cukurova Project Account
(CPA). Iller Bank would be responsible for repayment of funds to finance its
components (about US$3.6 million for technical assistance and
computerization). It would relend US$115.4 million to project municipalities
under Municipality Financing Agreements (MFAs) on terms which would ensure
that the municipalities bear all costs of commitment fees, interest, and
principal including foreign exchange risk; they would repay the loans on the
same schedule as they are to be repaid by the Government. The partial
exception concerns the US$6.1 million destined for HUDCs; these funds would be
relent by municipalities to HUDCs and would be repaid by HUDCs as the serviced
land is sold; the proceeds would be passed back to Iller Bank and then the
Treasury, which would thereafter be responsible for servicing that part of the
Bank loan.-   Conclusion of the SLA and MFAs, together with ratification of
the Project Agreements with each municipality, would be conditions of
effectiveness.  Government would pass about US$1.0 million from the Bank loan
to the Cukurova Municipalities Training Association (CMTA) on a grant basis.
Annex 3 summarizes arrangements for implementation, finance, and cost recGvery.
1/  This arrangement was adopted because it would be undesirable for HUDCs to
hold finance after the works are sold, and because the municipalities are
not in need of additional balances. It would be inappropriate for the
Iller Bank to hold these funds because it does not have the right to hedge
foreign exchange risks by holding foreign denominated balances.



- 18 -
2.21     The Government would provide financing for schools, health
facilities, police and fire stations, and would cause finance to be made
available to or by TEK and PTT for the electricity and telecommunications
subcomponents of the area-based shelter components. Appropriate funding
amounts have been included in the 1987 budget for subcomponents to be executed
during that year.
Table 2.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ millions)
Implementing    mu_ici-  Internal  Beneficiary  iller  Development Govern-I TEK and r
Agencies    palities  Generation Contributions  Bank  Support Fund  ment    PTT   IORD  Total
WSDs            28.2     2.6       35.0     49.6                           58.3  173.8
Municipalities    44.5             12.3     47.8                           51.1  155.6
NUOCs           2.0      8.4       0.5              11.5                    6.1   28.5
CMTA                     0.2                 1.0                            1.0   2.2
Iller Bank                               .  6.2       _3.fi   9.8
Sub-Total    74.7    11.2        47.8    104.6   11.S      0.0   0.0   120.0  369.8
Social Ministries                                            47.0                 47.0
TEK and PTT               _                                                    50.
Sub-Total     0.      Q0.0         .0    . °P    9.7 4L5 50.5    .0   97,S
GRAND TOTAL    74.7    11.2      47.8    104.6   11.5      47.0   50.5   120.0  467.4
JU.g: Same totals may not add exactly due to rounding.
2.22     The Development Support Fund (DSF) would lend to municipalities for
acquisition of land for UEAs on terms which require the municipality to repay
the loan, plus a premium of 10 percent, when the land is sold to the ultimate
beneficiary. Municipalities, at a minimum, would recover from HUDCs the cost
of the land, revalued by the rate of inflation (as measured by the wholesale
price index) from the time of acquisition by the municipality until final
sale, plus a positive real rate of interest of 2 percent per annum (calculated
on the revalued value of the land). DSF, through Iller Bank, would also
advance an estimated US$1.5 million to municipalities for HUDCs at an interest
rate of 24 percent to cover finance needs not met by the Bank loan, advance
payments, or retained earnings. This rate is expected to be positive in real
terms from 1988 onwards.
2.23     Iller Bank would be responsible for financing domestic costs of its
own components, for financing the domestic component of municipal, WSD, and
CMTA investments, and channelling DSF funds for HUDC investments. Iller Bank
funding has been based upon the amounts necessary to finance the investment
program (including nonproject elements) after taking account of finance from
the World Bank loan, internally generated funds, beneficiary contributions,
and equity contributions by municipalities. These funds would be drawn from
the Municipal Fur.d for some WSD investments (which is repaid over 20 years at



- 19 -
0 percent interest) and Iller Bank's own resources (to be repaid in equal
annual installments of principal and interest at 16 percent interest over 15
years for municipal components and 20 years for WSD components). Agreement
was confirmed at negotiations that these funds would be made available to
project municipalities on terms no less costly than those on which funds are
being lent to nonproject municipalities. The municipalities would guarantee
the CMTA's borrowings for the project.
2.24     Municipalities would finence part of the costs of municipal
components directly; they would also pay equity to HUDCs and contributions to
WSDs. The contributions have been estimated to ensure the financial
objectives by HUDCs (para. 4.16 below) and WSDs (para. 4.13 below). Although
the fraction of own finance, at 28.6 percent of the municipal components, may
seem small, it should be borne in mind that the municipalities would also be
financing a number of nonproject investments worth about US$175 million, using
own finance almost exclusively. Internal generation comprises operating
earnings less debt service of WSDs and retained earnings in the case of
HUDCs. Beneficiaries' contributions would come from improvement and
connection charges in the case of municipalities and WSDs, and presales
deposits from purchasers of land from HUDCs.
F. Inplementation Aruangements
Status of Project Preparation
2.25     The World Bank appraisal mission reviewed those subcomponents on
which work would be contracted during the first two years on the basis of
final parcellation plans, engineering designs at 1:1,000 scale, and draft
bidding documents for all on-site works for the urban expansion schemes in
Mersin and Tarsus; preliminary parcellation plans and designs at 1:2,500 scale
for the Ceyhan and Iskenderun urban expansion schemes; and pilot schemes for
gecekondu upgrading and housing management areas in all towns which have these
components. The economic analysis of the preliminary scheme for Ceyhan (para.
5.04 below) indicates the need for some design modification before approval by
PRIMU. In the case of the citywide infrastructure works (munici1al and other
engineering services), the mission reviewed structure plans (showing network
layouts for water and sanitation and phased expansions to the years 2000-2010,
depending on the town), together with preliminary designs for works for which
construction will be contracted during the first two years. Final designs and
bidding documents for these works will start becoming available in April 1987,
and bid packages will start to be tendered in June. Designs and feasibility
studies of subcomponents to be implemented in later years will be prepared by
the responsible implementing agencies and their consultants. The design for
gecekondu upgrading and housing management areas is a continuous process which
will be carried out by municipalities and their consultants and appraised by
the PRIMU. Acquisition procedures for all lands required under the project
have commenced. Land acquisition should not cause implementation delays,
since the initial two years of construction would take place on Government and
municipal land, and procedures are well underway to acquire the balance.
Outline draft terms of reference for most professional services and technical
assistance to be carried out under the project were reviewed during
appraisal. A timetable for procurement of services was agreed during loan
negotiations (Annex 4).



- 20 -
Implementation Schedule
2.26     The last subcomponents to be financed under the project would be
approved by the end of 1992 with completion, including the maintenance and
guarantee period, expected by June 30, 1994 (Annex 4).
Procurement
2.27     About 17 major civil works contract packages of US$2.5 million or
more (with an aggregate value of about US$51 million), related to on-site and
off-site infrastructure works in urban expansion schemes and for municipal
services components, would be awarded through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) (table 2.3). With the exception of the first two contacts,
which are expected to be issued in June 1987, they would be subject to
prequalification. Contracts for gecekondu upgrading, housing management, and
other engineering services components will be smaller, in dispersed locations,
and carried out at different times. It would, therefore, not be feasible to
group them into packages large enough for ICB. About 143 contracts for these
components, with an aggregate value of about US$200 million, would be procured
through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures. Turkey's LCB procedures
are generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in project
execution. To make these procedures fully consistent with the Bank's
procurement guidelines, however, assurances were obtained d4ring negotiations
that:
(a) prospective bidders would be allowed at least 30 days in which to
submit bids;
(b) bids would not be rejected on the grounds that they exceeded the
estimated price;
(c) bidders would be allowed to challenge bidding procedures irrespective
of whether they were present at the bid opening;
(d) national firms would receive no preference on Bank-financed items;
(e) nonprice factors to be taken into account in evaluation would be
specified in the bid documents and contracts would be awarded to the
lowest evaluated bidder who met tests of capability and financial
resources; and
(f)  contracts wouild provide for equitable adjustments to reflect changes
in the originally anticipated scope of work.
2.28     Goods, including equipment, vehicles, and tools, aggregating US$23
million, and grouped into 40 bidding packages valued at US$300,000 or more,
would be procured through ICB. A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of
the c.i.f. value of imported goods or the custom duties and import taxes,
whichever is lower, would be allowed for domestic manufactures. It would not
be feasible, due to the diverse agencies, types of equipment involved, and
differences in timing,-to group contracts worth about US$23 million for
miscellaneous tools, machinery, fixtures, ara furniture into packages large
enough for ICB.  Therefore, packages valuei at less than US$300,000 and
aggregating about US$19 million would be procured through LCB while items of
less than US$75,000, with an aggregate of no more than US$4 million, would be
procured by obtaining price quotations from at least three suppliers.



- 21 -
Iab]e 2-1 : PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
(Esti1ated)
Number of          Prog reent fH  haod__         Total
Cant^s *-*&     L_         LC8        Othgr      Cost.
N/A            __         __       27.9       27.9
Civil Works____
Urban Expansion Areas            6          17.0          _         __       17.0
(5.4)       (--)       (--)      (5.4)
Gecekondu Upgrading             45                      54.0       __       S4.0
& Housing Kngt.                            C--)    (17.3)        (--)    (17.3)
Water and Sanitation            49          33.7       46.5        7.7       87.9
(10.8)    (14.9)        (--)    (25.7)
Other Eng. Services             66            __      101.2         __      101.2
(--)    (32.4)        (--)    (32.4)
Subtotal Civil Works            160          50.7      201.7        7.7      260.1
(16.2)    (64.6)        (--)    (80.8)
EquIpment                      215          22.9       19.0        4.0       45.9
(12.7)    (10.6)       (2.2)    (25.5)
Power. Telecommuni-
cations. Social                N/A           __         __        97.5       97.5
Facilities                                  (--)       (--)      (--)       (--)
Prof. Services and
Technical Assist.              100            __         __        34.1      34.1
_  (--)    (--)      (13.6)   (13.6)
Overhr.bad                      N/A            __         __          1.7      1.7
.    .                             (__~~~~~~C-)  (--)      (--)    C--)
FellngshiRs                     N/A            __         __         0.2      0.2
_  __     _       l~~~--)    (--)       (0.1)   (0.1) .
TOTAL                    475           73.6     220.7        173.1    467.4
(28.9)    (75.2)       (15.9)  (120.0)
*: Not all totals add exactly due to rounding.
2.29        Professional Services and Technical Assistance would be procured from
firms and individuals according to terms of reference and with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank. Services for design and supervision to be financed
with proceeds of the loan would be procured according to Bank "Guidelines on
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."



- 22 -
2.30     The PRIMU would review all tender documents and contract awards of
municipalities and their subsidiary entities to ensure their consistency with
Bank procurement guidelines. PRIMN would forward to the World Bank the
results of its review together with the tender documents and award information
for all contracts subject to ICB and for the first contract of each type
subject to LCB. PRIMU would, in its regular reports, provide the Bank with
the results of its review of all other contracts, which would be subject to
post-review by the Bank after contract award.
Disbursements
2.31     Based on the implementation schedule in Annex 4, disbursements would
be made over eight years, which is consistent with previous Bank loans to
Turkey (see Annex 5 on disbureements).  There would be a provision for US$6.0
million retroactive finance for expenditures made between November 1986 and
the date of loan signature on civil works contracts (UEAs, upgrading, and
municipal and other engineering services) and consultancy services (final
designs and supervision). The loan closing date would be one year after
completion of the project, i.e., by June 30, 1995.
2.32     The proposed loan would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 32 percent of total expenditures for civil works contracts;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of ex-factory costs
of locally manufactured, and 65 percent of expenditures on
off-the-shelf purchases of equipment, tools, and vehicles;
(c) 40 percent of total expenditures for professional services and
technical assistance; and
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures ou fellowships.
2.33     The Government intends to establish a special account in foreign
currency for items which the Bank would disburse in order to avoid future
funding difficulties. The special account would be in an amount of US$10
million (about six months' expected disbursements in the early years of
project implementation), and would be replenished on the basis of withdrawal
applications. These applications would be supported by documentation
acceptable to the Bank on expenditures from the account. The documentation
would include statements of expenditures for contracts with a value of
US$20,000 or less.
Financial Reports and Audits
2.34     Each municipality, HUDC, and WSD would separately:
(a) during the year, keep and provide, as requested, adequate records of:
(i) the use of the proceeds of the loan, together with all other
related financing, in the implementation of the project, in
detail and in total as well as the operation and maintenance of
facilities constructed or provided under the project; and



- 23 -
(ii)  the amounts of all loans and other financing provided for the
project, including repayments (or provisions for repayment),
interest, commitment and other financing charges, and outstanding
loan balances. Such records would specify all changes in
receipt, payment, and balances of loans, resulting from changes
'in rates of exchange between Turkish currency and the various
foreign currencies borrowed to finance the project;
(b)  prepare annuaily (quarterly in the case of the HUDCs) financial
statements of the project and its operations as a whole, for
submission, through the Iller Bank to the Government of Turkey and to
the World Bank, all in accordance with appropriate accounting
standards and practices acceptable to the World Bank. HTIDCs would
also issue quarterly statements of income and expenditure, sources
and applications of funds, and balance sheets.
2.35     The Iller Bank would keep accounts of its own components and those of
the CPA.
2.36     All annual financial statements including those of the special
account would be audited by independent, qualified, and experienced auditors
acceptable to the Government or Turkey and to the World Bank. These
statements would be submitted, through the Iller Bank, to the World Bank
within six months of the end of each fiscal year and within three months of
the end of the fiscal year for HUDCs.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.37     Each project entity would prepare a semi-annual report, to be
submitted to the PRIMU, on implementation of all aspects of the components for
which it is responsible (quarterly in the case of HUDCs). These reports would
cover achievements, plans, problems encountered, and actions taken or proposed
to solve them, and would include a regular set of monitoring indicators on
project outputs, costs, and implementation. They would also include the
results of the surveys of HUDC land purchasers and residents of UEAs
(para. 4.19). PRIMU, in addition to reporting on its own operations, would
summarize overall project progress (including its own comments on the reports
of the other project entities in the light of desk review and field
supervision visits), and forward them to the World Bank. Reports by the PRIMU
to the Bank would be in English.
2.38     On completion of the project, each municipality would prepare a
Project Completion Report (PCR) on the componen,ts within its jurisdiction and
that of its WSD and HUDC. The PRIMU would prepare for submission to the Bank
an overall PCR, in English, which would summarize the total implementation
experience, indicate the extent to which project objectives were achieved, and
assess those factors which were responsible for favorable and unfavorable
outcomes.
Supervision Requirements
2.39     Bank supervision of the project would require up to 145 man-weeks
over the eight-year period of implementation. Supervision efforts by Bank
staff and consultants would be concentrated in the first three years to ensure
a good start and set the pace for timely implementatioa of project



- 24 -
components. Special emphasis would be placed on assisting the PRIMU to
develop its capacity to appraise subcomponents, supervise procurement, and
monitor the performance of municipalities in implementation and financial
management. Supervision teams would include a financial analyst, an
economist, and engineers with relevant specialties. Thirty man-weeks are
estimated in FY88, twenty five man-weeks in FY89 and FY90, twenty man-weeks in
FY91, fifteen man-weeks in FY92, FY93, and FY94 including ten man-weeks for
preparation of the project completion report. A comprehensive mid-term review
would be undertaken in 1990.
m. INSTUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A. Municipalities
General
3.01     Under the Government's decentralization policies, the municipalities
are given new and expanded tasks. During project preparation, the five
Cukurova municipalities - rith the assistance of PCU and consultants -
undertook a thorough review of tbeir staff and organizational structure.
Annex 6 provides details on existing staff, proposed staff, and the new
organizational arrangements. They put special emphasis on arrangements for
investment planning and coordination, and the performance of engineering and
financial functions. The reorganization plans aim at establishing more
reasonable spans of control, grouping functions more logically (to economize
on specific skills and to ensu.e adequate coordination within as well as
outside the municipality), and instituting a higher degree of accountability
at all levels of the municipal administration. The main innovations supported
as part of this project are:
(a)  establishing Housing and Urban Development Companies (HUDCs) as
companies ("sirkets") under the commercial code to develop and market
the urbaL, expansion areas on a profit-making commercial basis;
(b)  bringing water and sanitation activities into new Water and
Sanitation departments ("isletmes") in four of the municipalities (in
the case of Adana, into a water authority, ASKI) to manage all
aspects of water and sanitation services (which were previously split
among different departments);
(c)  rationalizing municipal departmental structures through the
establishment of separate departments or units for, inter alia,
(i) investment planning, programming, and budgeting; (ii) urban
planning and licensing; (iii) gecekondu upgrading and housing
management; (iv) solid waste management; and (v) personnel management
and staff training.
3.02     The HUDCs have been established in all towns except Ceyhan.  The
other parts of the reorganization plans have been approved by the municipal
councils.  All municipalities have presented their organizational proposals,
together with the associated staffing plans (para. 3.07 below), to MOI and the
Department of Personnel in the Prime Minister's Office, and approval is
expected shortly. All five municipalities are currently actively engaged in
recruiting required staff.



- 25 -
Program Planning and Budgeting
3.03     The municipalities are establishing a corporate planning function, to
be exercised by a Management Group comprising the Mayor, Deputy Mayors,
General Directors of the HUDCs and WSDs, the Finance Director (in cities where
he is not a Deputy Mayor), and the new post of Coordinator of Program Planning
and Budgeting (PPB). The Deputy Mayor for Technical Services would act as
coordinator ir t1eyhan. The Management Group will be charged with developing
and analyzing municipal policies and plans in the light of service needs and
financial means, and reviewing investment projects and annual budget
proposals. The PPB unit will have a staff of two to six persons assisting the
Coordinator. The latter would be responsible also for coordinating all
project-related works in the municipality and for liaison with Iller Bank and
the World Bank. The appointment of the coordinator would be a condition for
approval by PRIMU of any project investments in that municipality.
Urban Planning and Technical Services
3.04     Because of the different sizes of the municipalities, their
organizational structures have been and will continue to be quite different.
The basic organizational principles are the same: by merging and/or splitting
existing units, separate departments would be created for:
o    Water and sanitation (see para. 3.10 below).
O    Urban plan3ningt, including zoning, licensing, and issuance of building
permits, etc.
o    Coordination of design, implementation, and cost recovery in
gecekondu upgrading and housing management areas.
o    Solid Waste management, including collection and disposal.
o    Road construction and maintenance.
Establishment of these entities or units, and appointment of their directors,
would be a condition for approval by PRIMU of investments in the specific
components under their control.
3.05     The Urban Planning and Upgrading departments will generally report to
the Deputy Mayor for Planning Services. The Upgrading Department will
initially rely on consultants for the detailed planning, design, and
supervision of the physical works, while the department's own staff will focus
on the legal and administrative aspects. As experience is gained, the
department will assume more direct responsibility for design and contracting
of works. The new Solid Waste and Roads departments will, together with a
number of existing departments, report to the Deputy Mayor for Technical
Services. The Roads Department will also be responsible for drainage works
except in the case of combined stormwater and sewerage systems that come under
the WSD.



- 26 -
3.06     Initial contracts for major works under the project would be handled
by the existing contracting department under the Deputy Mayor for Technical
Services, since it would be more feasible to build up procurement capabilities
in one existing department rather than in several new departments at once.
Functional departments will, over time, be strengthened to handle contracting
for their own works, starting with the WSDs. The technical departments will
also ultimately take responsibility for design and supervision of works in
their functional areas, using an appropriate mix of in-house and consulting
staff. In the initial period, however, each municipality intends to appoint
one consulting firm for design and supervision of major works. The
consultants will report on technical matters to the department(s) concerned
with specific works. Appointment of supervision consultants would be a
condition for approval of contract award for any civil works contract under
the project to the concerned municipality.
Manpower Development
3.07     The Cukurova municipalities currently employ about 7,400 persons,
three quarters of whom have only an elementary school education and about half
of whom have less than six years of service. Staff motivation is low due to
inappropriate grading and promotion procedures, lack of leadership, and
insecurity of tenure; staffing levels are excessive in labor-intensive
activities.''  The consultants, after reviewing the existing staff profile,
recommended that the municipalities recruit about 200 high level professional
and managerial employees over the first three years (one quarter classified as
first priority). Other staffing needs, with appropriate leadership and
training, could be filled by existing employees. The municipalities have
accepted these recommendations in principle and have started recruitment of
department directors. They have also established high level committees to
refine the staffing planls. Each municipality is now setting up a manpower
development and training department which will recruit staff for the technical
and financial departments and establish a training program (including making
use of the CMTA institute for training municipal staff).
Financial Management
3.08     Substantial upgrading of accounting and financial management
functions is required to accomplish project objectives. A list of
improvements to be sought over the first four years of the project was
prepared during appraisal and was agreed during negotiations (section C of
Annex 4). Foremost among the initial improvements, to be implemented by the
end of 1988, are: strengthening revenue collection, separation of accounts for
the WSDs versus other municipal departments, separation of capital and
recurrent transactions, maintaining capital accounts by scheme, maintaining
accounts for loans and debt service, reporting on status of actual performance
versus budget, cash flow forecasting, and preparation of three-year rolling
capital and finance plans. These measures would be followed by cost
accounting, accrual accounting, formal pricing policy review mechanisms,
program-based annual budgets, etc. During the project preparation period, new
1/  During project preparation, selected actities     such as water meter
repairs, solid waste collection, vehicle workshop operations -- were
analyzed in depth for one or more towns, and opportunities for
productivity increases ranging from 25 to 300 percent were identified.



- 27 -
accounting systems that reflected most of the initial improvements were run in
parallel with the existing systems in Mersin, Tarsus, and Iskenderun. At
first, these were run by separate staff. Since appraisal they have been
integrated into the regular finance departments, and pilot operations have
commenced in Ceyhan. The new systems can replace the existing ones only after
a change in Central Government financial regulations governing municipal
accounts, however. Agreement was secured at negotiations that these
regulations would be modified to permit and require implementation of the new
systems in the project municipalities by September 30, 1987.
3.09     The key organizational improvement in municipal finances will be the
appointment of chief financial officers, with the right and responsibility to
advise and to be consulted on all matters of financial policy, performance,
and management. In addition, they will be charged with the management of all
municipal systems for accounts, budgeting, revenue collection, expenditure,
financial control, and financial reporting.  Municipalities are attempting to
appoint persons with strong financial backgrounds as Deputy Mayors for Finance
and Administration to play the role of chief financial officers. Although the
WSDs will have their own financial departments, the chief financial officer of
the municipality will have a special responsibility, as a member of the
mnicipal council and the chairman of the specialized finance management
review committee, to assess the WSD's financial and accounting performance.
An essential component in achieving these changes in financial management
would be technical assistance (comprising two foreign TA staff for each of the
first two years, and six months in each of the following two years; one local
TA staff per smaller municipality from 1987 to 1992 with three in Adana from
1987 to 1989 and two in 1990-92), which would assist with implementation of
financial and accounting systems and, in cooperation with the CMTA institute
and manpower development departments, organize specialized training in the
municipalities and the WSDs.
B. Water and Sanitation Departments
3.10     In the past, most major water and sanitation investments in source
works and primary and secondary networks have been carried out by Iller Bank
or DSI, with municipalities making investments in tertiary networks and minor
wells, and in operations and maintenance. Organization of municipal service
provision has differed. In Adana, water serVice was spread among departments
under four different deputy mayors. In Tarsus, Ceyhan, and Iskenderun, water
was handled by joint water and bus isletmes (para. 1.12); Mersin had a
separate water isletme. In all municipalities, sanitation was overseen by the
unit of the technical department which also dealt with roads and drainage.
Separate water and sdnitation departments (WSDs) will be set up as isletmes in
Mersin, Tarsus, Ceyhan, and Iskenderun to invest in and manage these services,
when Government approvals have been received (para. 3.02). Adana's ASKI is
now established (para. 1.12). WSD directors will have the status of Deputy
Mayor (Deputy Secretary General, in the case of Adana). The WSDs will
generally have four sections: capital projects, operations and maintenance,
financial services, and management services, plus a director in charge of an
interdepartmental task force and the contractors assisting with the water loss
reduction program under the project. About 38 section heads and senior
technical officers would need to be hired in the first two years; other
staffing needs will be handled by transferring to the WSDs the approximately
875 staff now engaged in water and sanitation functions in other municipal



- 28 -
departments. The rate at which the WSDs take responsibility for the full
range of their operations will depend upon their success in staffing the
different positions, and the exact functions to be performed by WSDs will vary
over time and by municipality. WSDs will carry out all accounting functions,
and network operations and maintenance activities from the beginning. Their
role in contracting will increase as they add relevant staff.
C. Housin and Urban Development Companies
3.11     With the exception of Ceyhan, the Cukurova municipalities have
established Housing and Urban Development Companies (HUDCs) as companies
(limited sirkets) under the Turkish commercial code to undertake the
development of the urban expansion areas. The municipalities hold over 90
percent of the shares, with the remainder being held by the relevant SPA (in
the cases of Adana and Tarsus) or the Village Unicn (Iskenderun). The
exception is Mersin, where the municipality holds only 52 percent of the
shares, with the other 48 percent being held by the neighboring municipalities
of Erdemli, Tomuk, and Cesmeli and the SPA of Icel province. During
appraisal, each municipality agreed in principle to several major points
regarding the operation and management of its HUDC, and relationships between
the HUDC and the parent municipality; these are reflected in the HUDC policy
statements (Annex 7). It was confirmed during negotiations that formal
approval of the policy statements would be required for PRIMU approval of
investments in these components under the project, and that Bank concurrence
would be obtained for any substantive change in the policy statement or
capital structure of the HUDC.
3.12     The municipalities will appoint boards of five to seven directors to
manage their HUDCs in accordance with the policy statement. The HUDC staff
will comprise the Chief Executive (these have now been appointed), directors
for marketing, engineering, planning and finance, together with a small
support staff. HUDCs intend to rely upon consultants to perform most design
and supervision tasks; they are also using consulting services to assist with
establishing marketing procedures and accounting systems. It was confirmed at
negotiations that the UEA in Ceyhan will be implemented by the Director of
Urban Land Management under the Deputy Mayor for Planning and Technical
Services, in accord with policies for marketing and cost recovery similar to
those followed by HUDCs in the other cities.
D. Cukurova Municipalities Training Association (CMTA)
3.13     The CMTA was established by Decree No. 87/11597 of March 3, 1987.
The policy making b-dy of the CMTA will be an assembly made up of mayors of
member municipalities and one other member designated by each municipal
assembly. A council composed of the President of the Association (elected by
the member municipalities), the Director, and four members of the assembly
will be responsible for CMTA operations. Management will be delegated to a
Director appointed by MOI on the basis of a recommendation from the President
of the CMTA. The Director will be supported by eight training/technical
staff, and five support staff. The staff will organize and deliver workshops,
round tables, and seminars while outside specialists will be used as
instructors for some courses. The project municipalities and their WSDs will
contribute 0.5 percent of their previous year's revised budget expenditures to



- 29 -
support the CMTA. According to the base forecast, these receipts are
insufficient to cover operating costs including debt service. Because this
institution will help develop a capacity to replicate municipal training
elsewhere in Turkey, and will provide training for some staff from other than
project municipalities, the Government intends to provide the Bank loan funds
to CMTA on a grant basis.
E. The Project Review, Implementation, and Monitoring Unit
3.14     Iller Bank would coordinate all financial aspects of the project,
monitor the municipal investment programs, appraise and supervise
subcomponents of the project. For this purpose, Iller Bank has created the
Project Review, Implementation, and Monitoring Unit (PRIMU) and will establish
a separate Cukurova Project Account (CPA). All World Bank funds would pass
through the CPA, as would Iller Bank and Municipal Fund loans to the project
municipalities.L' The PRIMU would allocate proceeds of the World Bank loan,
Iller Bank loans, Municipal Fund contributions, and Development Support Fund
loans destined for the project municipalities, including funds used for
ongoing Iller Bank works in the project municipalities, as described further
in paras. 3.15 and 3.16 and in Annex 9. The PRIMU would also help organize
joint technical assistanee contracts for municipalities where appropriate.
3.15     The PRIMU's resource allocation function would be based on an
assessment of the creditworthiness of project municipalities, and of the
viability of specific projects for which funds would be sought. The
creditworthiness assessments would depend on a review of medium-term plans
(covering at least three years, and initially including 1991, which is the
ye#ar in which the World Bank loan repayments commence). Those plans would be
prepared annually by municipalities at least three months before the
commencement of the financial year. The plans would cover annual capital
expenditures for each major scheme and program of small projects, forecasts of
recurrent receipts, expenditures (including debt service, by source of loan)
and hence internal funding, and proposals on the amounts and sources of
finance required from outside the municipality. They would be accompanied by
information on actual financial and physical performance of items included in
past plans, as well as on overall municipal receipts and expenditure costs,
together with explanations of deviations between past proposals and actual
outcomes.
3.16     The PRIMU would also appraise project subcomponents which are
designed in the course of project execution according to criteria which would
be agreed in advance with the Bank. In brief, those criteria would include:
for UEAs, achieving agreed affordability and cost recovery targets; for WSDs,
meeting financial performance standards and implementing least-cost solutions;
for upgrading and housing management components, conforming to cost recovery
principles; and for roads, generating an estimated rate of return of 10
percent or more for investments of more than US$1 million equivalent. PRIMU
1/ For simplicity of exposition, unless specifically noted to the contrary,
the word municipality in the remainder of this section includes subsidiary
entities such as WSDs and HUDCs.



- 30 -
would also review the technical tmplementation of specific subcomponents in
order to assess the technical viability of future investments in similar
components. Although all proceeds of the World Bank loan would be initially
earmarked to specific municipalities or Central Government organizations,
resource reallocations are likely to be required during project execution to
respond to differential success in project implementation, and unexpected
circumstances.
a.17     The PRIMU would have offices in Adana and in Ankara.  The Director
reports directly to the Chairman and Managing Director of Iller Bank. It
would have about 15 professional staff, of whom about 10 would be senior staff
with at least 10-15 years of relevant professional experience. The others
would have three to five years of experience. The professions represented
would include planning, financial analysis, economics, accounting and
engineering (with specialization in water and sanitation, roads, transport and
procurement). There would be about ten support staff. The deputy director of
the PRIMU would have responsibility for and expertise in management of
technical assistance, and design and supervision services, to ensure that the
PRIMU would be in a position to assist the municipalities with these aspects
of the project. Because of low public sector payscales, most professional
staff would be engaged on contract terms. PRIMU would also make use of
technical assistance in engineering specialties and financial analysis.
Given the importance of the PRIMU, it was agreed that appointment of its
principal staff and engagement of its main TA staff would occur by September
30, 1987. The roles, responsibilities, and operating procedures of the PRIMU
as outlined above and described in more detail in Annex 9 were confirmed
during negotiations.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSES
A. Cost Recovery and Financid Obiectives
4.01     Over the last few years, Central Government assistance to
municipalities has been stepped up significantly to allow an appropriate match
between municipal responsibilities and resources. A fundamental objective,
however, of the decentralization policy is to make the municipalities more
self-reliant and to encourage them to strengthen their own resource
mobilization. Given the nature of most municipal revenue sources, this can
best be achieved by relying on direct cost recovery from the beneficiaries of
various municipal services and programs as long as the resulting tariffs and
charges are affordable also to low-income groups.
4.02     Consequently, the project is based on the following cost recovery
principles:
(a) Urban Expansion Areas: the costs of on-site infrastructure and at
least one third of off-site infrastructure would be recovered through
the sales price for developed land. The HUDCs would in turn pay the
contribution for off-site infrastructure to the municipalities and
WSDs.



- 31 -
(b) Gecekondu UPgrading and Housing Management Areas: In addition to
normal charges for public utilities, households benefitting from
improvements in water, sewerage, or roads would pay improvement
charges amounting to the lesser of either 2 percent of the property
value or cost for each type of improvement; and fees aggregating
about TL 150,000 (about US$200) for regularization of tenure and
planning/building permits.
4.03     In order to ensure that this project can be replicated on a national
scale within the Government's budgetary and macroeconomic constraints, the
municipal investment programs have been based on the following key assumptions:
(a) The municipalities would, within the existing legislative framework,
be able to mobilize sufficient resources to defray all operating
expenditures, service their debt, and finance substantial share of
their investments through surpluses on the recurrent budget.
(b) Existing revenue-sharing programs (para. 1.18) would remain in effect
at their present level and no new revenae sources would be handed
over to municipalities during the project period.
(c) The project municipalities, taken together, would not be permitted to
borrow more than their "fair" share (based on population) from .iler
Bank and the Municipal Fund, or about TL 5,800 per capita per annum
(at December 1985 prices) averaged over the period as a whole. In
fact, the forecasts indicate that they would only absorb about TL
4,500 per capita per annum of domestic resources in the 1987-94
period.
B. MAun ioAitits
Investment Programs and Financing Plans
4.04     The project-related municipal investments (in roads, drainage, solid
waote management, technical assistance, and equipment for improved municipal
management) would account for about 41 percent of their capital expenditures
over the 1987-94 period (see table 4.1). Municipal investments not financed
under the project would come to about 46 percent of the total. About 12
percent of the capital expenditures would take the form of contributions to
the HUDCs and WSDs. Surpluses on recurrent account would finance as much as
66 percent of the investment programs. Capital receipts (from HUDCs and
beneficiaries of upgrading and housing management programs) would contribute
about 6 percent. Loans from Iller Bank (including the Municipal Fund) and the
World Bank would finance about 28 percent of the program. The financial
forecasts are set out in detail in Annex 10 and are summarized below.



- 32 -
Table 4.1: FINANCING PLAN FOR MUNICIPAL INVESTMENT PROGRAMS, 1987-94
Percentage of Investments, in Constant Prices
Adana   Mersin   Tarsus   Ceyhan   Iskenderun   Total
Investments
Project                 35      46       55        49         39          41
Land for HUDC             *      I         *        0          6           1
Non-Project             54      43        35       51          26         46
Contribution to
HUDC/WSD              11      10         9        0         29          12
Total                  100     100       100      100         100        100
Financed by:
Recurrent Surplus       72      54        68       60          55         66
Capital Receipts         5       6         4       16          12          6
Loans from:
- IBRD               12      15       18        16         13          14
- Iller Bank         12      23       10         8         14          14
- DSF                 *       1         *        0          6            *
Total                  100     100       100      100        100         100
US$ million equivalent    200       83        39       14          45        380
NB: Some totals do not add due to rounding. Shares were estimated in real
terms by deflating flows in current prices by factors reflecting forecasts of
domestic inflation.
*: less than 0.5%
Past Financial Performance
4.05     The past record of the municipalities provides a sound basis to
expect that the project's financial targets can be met. After running
deficits from 1982, four of the project municipalities shifted to surpluses in
1984-85 (Ceyhan ran surpluses throughout the period). The improvement was
based on three main factors. First, Mersin, Tarsus, Ceyhan, and Iskenderun
mobilized additional revenues by levying higher tariffs and charges for
services, increasing local tax rates, and improving revenue collection.
Adana, however, experienced a slight decline in its real per capita revenues.
As of 1986, the municipalities were mobilizing, through taxes and charges
under their control, between TL 10,500/head (Adana) and TL 15,300/head
(Mersin), or about 5 percent to 8 percent of average per capita income in the
Cukurova cities. Of this, TL 1,900 (Adana) to TL 3,500 (Mersin) was in the
form of water and sanitation charges. Second, the Government's
decentralization policy increased real per capita recurrent transfers (to
between TL 8,400 in Mersin and TL 12,300 in Adana in 1986). A third factor
which improved the finances of Mersin, Tarsus, and Iskenderun was a reduction
in real per capita operating costs of municipal services.



- 33 -
Future Performance
4.06     Surpluses on the recurrent account would be the most important single
source of finance for the investment program. Table 4.2 summarizes the
structure of operating receipts and expenses. The basic assumption is that
revenues would increase less in the future than in the recent past.
Specifically, after their rise from 1982 to 1986, the real per capita revenues
from taxes and locally generated service fees (excluding water and sanitation
tariffs) and taxes would either decline slightly (Adana and Tarsus) or rise
slightly (Mersin and Ceyhan by 1 percent, and Iskenderun by 4 percent) between
1986 and 1994. Achievement of this target should be feasible, especially
since it includes revenue from the property tax, which was assigned to
municipalities only in 1986. It now accounts for about 10 percent of local
taxes and service revenues and promises additional revenues from improved
collection and rate increases (the rate was increased in the 1987 finance
act). Recurrent Government transfers are forecast conservatively to rise by 3
percent per annum (as compared to an expected GNP growth rate of about
5 percent); they would fall in per capita terms by 1 percent to 6 percent,
except in Adana where they would rise by 18 percent due to the special
metropolitan payment (para. 1.18) which Adana began to receive during the last
quarter of 1986. Real per capita recurrent expenditures (before debt service)
are expected to behave differently in the different project towns: they are
forecast to fall (by 9 percent in Tarsus, 12 percent in Adana, and 16 percent
in Mersin), remain constant in Iskenderun, and to rise (by 14 percent in
Ceyhan) between 1986 and 1994.1' Recurrent surpluses (after debt service)
Tabl 4.2:  STRUCTtQ£ OrF RCM UST UCEZTX S AND EXP rOITUMS
(percent of recurrent receipts)
Total   Total   Averave  Total                 Averaag: 19B7-94
2g    ~1986   19&-9    M9 AdanaPersin  Iaasus  Cevhan  Iskelderuo
Recurrent Receipts
Central Transfers       38.9    51.4    54.6   52.2    63.6   41.3    46.1    45.4       48.0
Local Taxes            47.9    40.7      37.4   39.5    30.2   52.2    44.1    38.0     36.4
Service IncomeA,h       13.2  ...2.9.2  JM    -A4        6.1  6.S    -.±       16.6 A    1
Total Recurrent Receipts  100.0   100.0    100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0     100.0
Recurrent Expenditures
Operating Costs         64.4    43.7     41.0   39.7    36.0   49.7    42.0    48.5      44.3
Contingency Reserve     0.0      5.3     5.4    5.3    10.0    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Debt Service            Ili              12.    1       10.    IlW      14.2    18       ILA
Total Recurrent Expenditures  78.3    49.5  58.7   5t.2    56.0   65.8    56.2    60.3      58.7
Recurrent Surplus          21.7    50.5     41.3   44.8    44.0   34.2    43.8    39.7      41.3
Total Recurrent Receipts
in US$ Million Equivalent  34      55       76    107      41     17       8       3         8
aV Fees from services, mainly bus fares.
1/ The "contingency reserve" applies only to the case of Adana, represents 10
percent of income, and is included to provide for any additional costs
when the submunicipalities of Seyhan and Yuregir take over certain
functions from the metropolitan municipality in 1989.



- 34 -
would allow the municipalities to self-finance from 85 percent (Iskenderun) to
120 percent of forecast annual investment (Adana) by 1994, as contrasted with
the 54 percent to 72 percent expected during the project period.
4.07     Capital receipts would comprise proceeds of UEA land sales in Ceyhan
(which would not establish an HUDC), contributions by HUDCs in other towns to
at least one third of off-site infrastructure costs of UEAs, legalization
charges in upgrading areas, and improvement levies on property owners
(para. 4.02). These collections, together with payment of planning fees,
would be the major source of direct cost recovery in gecekondu upgrading and
housing management areas. Agreement was reached that PRIMU would only approve
financing for services in those areas when these fees, together with
connection charges, would cover the costs of installing them. (At current
rates and costs, this criterion would trigger installation of all
infrastructures when about 75 percent of plots have buildings on them.)
Agreement was reached that municipalities would collect the above charges from
all beneficiaries of municipal improvements and from the HUDCs. In the case
of Ceyhan, agreement was confirmed What the price of the serviced land sold in
the UEA would include costs of all on-site municipal and WSD infrastructure.
Creditworthiness
4.08     The investment program would involve rapid increases in municipal
debt service. The ratio of debt service to receipts for municipalities (WSDs
and HUDCs taken together with municipalities) would never exceed 35 percent.
(which is judged to be a sustainable ratio), nor would it exceed recurrent
transfers paid through Iller Bank except in Tarsus where it would reach a
maximum of 105 percent in 1991. The ratios for municipalities alone,
excluding WSDs and HUDCs, are not forecast to exceed 21 percent and 50
percent, respect.vely (these maxima are for Mersin in 1991). Sensitivity
analyses indicate that the risk due to foreign exchange moveuuts on the World
Bank loan would be manageable to the municipalities. given the conservative
nature of the resource mobilization forecast, the municipalities - with
prudent management -- should remain creditworthy, and they should be able to
respond to adverse eventualities without serious reductions in their
investment programs or service levels.
C. Water and Sanitation Departments
Financing Plan for Water and Sanitation Investments
4.09     The total capital requirements for the WSDs during the 1987-94 period
would be about US$247 million. Project related expenditures would account for
about 70 percent of the total (see table 4.3 and Annex 11 for further details
on organization and finance for municipal water and sanitation companies).
Investments not financed under the project would amount to about 13 percent of
the total. These investments would include ongoing Iller Bank works (in
Adana, Mersin, and Tarsus), water and sewer connections outside project areas,
and new major supply, distribution, and treatment facilities in 1993 and 1994
as the proposed project is completed. The large increases in working capital



- 35 -
(17 percent of total capital requirements) are due largely to the conservative
assumption that each year's internal funds generation is used to finance
investment expenditure only in the following year, with the accumulated
internal finance in the year being recorded as working capital.
Table 4.3: FINANCING OF WATER AND SANITATION DEPARTMENTS INVESTMENTS, 1987-94
Percentage
Adana    Mersin    Tarsus    Ce          Iskenderun    Total
Investment
Project               67.1     71.1       65.9      76.0         81.8        70.3
Non-Project           13.1     15.5       13.4      14.4          9.2        13.1
Working Capital       19.8     13.3       20.7       9.6          9.0        16.6
Total                100.0    100.0      100.0     100.0        100.0       100.0
Financed by:
Income before
interest         33.7      10.5      32.9       16.9          9.0       24.6
Depreciation          20.4     26.8       18.4      29.0         23.6        22.3
Less Debt Service   (36.0)   (27.8)    (28.7)    (31.3)         (24.0)      (31.5)
Net Internal
Generation       18.1       9.5       22.6      14.6          8.6       14.3
Customer Contri-
bution           16.8      31.9       20.8      12.4         16.7        20.2
Internal Generation  34.9      41.4      43.4       27.0         25.5        35.5
Loans from:
World Bank        22.3     21.9       21.2      24.9         27.4        22.9
Municipal Fund    0.0       7.8       10.8      38.5          6.6         5.4
Iller Bank       26.4      15.5      16.3        9.6          9.9       20.0
Subtotal             48.1      45.2       48.6      73.0         43.9        48.3
Municipal Contri-
bution           16.4      13.4        8.0       0.0         30.8        16.3
Total                         lam.Q  Ll                                     1QQDQ
Total US$ million
equivalent      122        49         30        10           36        247
NB: -  The shares were estimated in real terms by deflating flows in current
prices by factors reflecting forecasts of domestic inflation.
- Some totals may not add due to rounding.
4.10     According to the base projections, internal cash generation from
normal operations would be sufficient to meet about 14 percent of the capital
requirements during the project period. Customer contributions in terms of
connection and improvement charges and payments from HUDCs would contribute
about 20 percent (see para. 4.02). Some of the municipalities would also make
significant contributions to the WSDs. The large contribution shown for



- 36 -
Iskenderun would be required due to high operating costs and heavy investment.
expenditures in that city, which would prevent its WSD from making as large
operating surpluses as the other WSDs, despite charging the second highest
real tariffs among the project municipalities. The high contribution in Adana
would result from the legislation on metropolitan municipalities which
requires them to pay 10 percent of their regular recurrent transfers from the
Central Government to their water and sanitation operations. Loans would
finance about 48 percent of the investment program. The split between Iller
Bank and Municipal Fund financing is based on the existing practice under
which metropolitan municipalities are ineligible for Municipal Fund financing,
and small towns, such as Ceyhan, receive larger shares of this lower cost
money.
Past Performance
4.11     Because of inadequacies of accounting systems and fragmented
responsibilities, past financial performance of the water and sanitation
operations of the municipalities can be known only in part. The consultants'
estimates indicate, however, that these services incurred operating losses,
before depreciation or debt charges, in Adana from 1982-86, and from 1982 to
1985 in Mersin and Iskenderun. As of 1986, only Ceyhan, Tarsus, and
Iskenderun covered their debt service from revenues. This poor performance
resulted from revenue and operational factors: low tariffs (depending on the
city, average water charges amounted to 1 percent to 2.8 percent of average
household income in 1986), lack of sewerage charges (they were not permitted
until 1986), substantial numbers of illegal connections (estimated at 5
percent in Ceyhan to 15 percent in Iskenderun)$ and mediocre revenue
collection performance (estimated at 65 percent to 85 percent of billings).
4.12     Over the last few years, the municipalities have strengthened their
revenue performance. Between 1982 and 1986, tariffs for consumption by
commercial and official bodies were sharply increased in all municipalities,
as were domestic tariffs in Iskenderun. Real domestic tariffs remained more
or less constant in the other towns although they fell in Adana. All
municipalities have nov introduced progressive block tariffs for domestic
consumers (Adana and Mersin as of 1986, the others in 1987), under which the
lifeline supply of about 7.5 m3 per household per month (equivalent to about
50 1/c/d for the average household) is sold at a low price, a second block
(the next 10 m3 per month) at a higher price, and a third block at a price
approximating the average incremental cost of water. In general, official
tariffs are similar to the second domestic block tariff and commercial tariffs
to the third block. A major innovation has been the introduction of sewerage
surcharges, initially at 25 percent of the water tariff, and rising to 50
percent by 1994 (sewerage surcharges have been introduced in Adana, Mersin,
and Ceyhan,, and will be introduced in the other towns when formal sewerage
systems begin to operate). In addition, all five towns introduced charges in
1986 or 1987 on grotndwater extracted directly by commercial firms, and Adana
also plans to charge apartment buildings for water they extract. Following
the precedent of a court case in Adana in mid-1986 which affirmed the right of
the municipality to charge such extraction fees, this is expected to be a
substantial revenue source in the coming years for some towns.



- 37 -
Financial Objectives
4.13    .As was discussed with each municipality during appraisal and
confirmed at negotiations, municipalities would set water and sanitation
charges at levels which would ensure that (a) the revenues from these
services, taken together, would cover all expenses of operation, maintenance,
administration, interest, and the greater of depreciation or repayment of loan
principal, and all necessary increases in working capital, and (b) internal
generation would contribute at least 20 percent of the cost of new capital
investment by 1992. Agreement was also secured that Iller Bank would approve
specific municipal water or sanitation investments in project municipalities
only when the water and sanitation operations are achieving the above
objectives. In addition, the municipalities intend that all internally
generated funds, as well as capital receipts of water and sanitation
departments, would be used exclusively for witer and sanitation investment as
long as any finance is needed for such facilities; that is, municipalities
would not draw funds from WSD8 unless the WSDs are able to achieve financing
of all viable investments from internal resources.
4.14     There should be no undue difficulty in meeting the financial
performance criteria. Increases in real water and sewerage tariffs by 1992
over 1987 levels, on the order of over 170 percent, would be required in
Adana, 90 percent in Tarsus, 73 in Mersin, 33 percent in Iskenderun, and only
1 percent in Ceyhan. Average water and sewage tariffs are affordable. Given
estimated consumption, domestic water and sewerage charges are estimated at
between 1.3 and 2.9 percent of average household income in 1987, depending on
the city, and would never rise to more than 2.4 to 3.3 percent (in 1991-92).
The maximu charges for the lifeline (first block) supply would come to only 2
to 3 percent of the income nf households at the 20th percentile during the
project period.  It should be underlined that these rather low percentages (as
compared with those in other countries and larger cities in Turkey) are due to
the low cost of these utilities in Cukurova, the success of the consultants in
identifying low-cost solutions, careful attention to arriving at realistic
demand forecasts in the light of sharp tariff increases - and thus, limiting
investments in additional source works - and to the opportunities to increase
consumpticn through reducing wastage. The base projections also assume some
improvement in revenue collection performance and cost reducing measures.
4.15     The forecasts indicate that the 20 percent internal financing
criterion would be met by 1991 at the latest, and that ASKI will be financing
one hundred percent of its investment requirements internally by 1993. The
WSD would achieve one hundred percent self-financing in Mersin by 1994, in
Tarsus by 1995, and in Ceyhan by 1996. Self-sufficiency would come later to
Iskenderun because of the higher operating costs in that city, and the
extensive improvements to be carried out there. These dates would be deferred
of course$ if experience shows that loss reduction occurs more slowly, at
higher cost, or if it proves necessary to invest in major source works before
the late 1990s, or if operating costs are higher than anticipated.
Sensitivity analyses indicate that if the rate of foreign exchange were 20
percent higher than the base forecast by 1991, revenue increases on the order
of 4 to 6.5 percent, depending on the toia, would be required to ensure debt
service coverage in 1991, which is the most difficult year financially (due to
the commencement of principal repayments of the World Bank loan).



- 38 -
D. Housing and Urban Development Companies
Financial Policies
4.16     The objectives of the HUDCs are to develop and sell serviced
residential land on a commercial basis with specific attention to providing
land affordable to families in the lower half of the income distribution.
They would not construct housing speculatively (i.e., buiid houses which are
not presold). They may, however, arrange housing construction for low-income
households on a power-of-attorney basis. As described below (para. 4.20),
they are expected to be highly profitable even under adverse market
assumptions. There is a serious risk, however, that they would encounter
financial difficulties if they are overextended or mismanaged. Since the
HUDCs are the first enterprises of their type in Turkey, the policy statements
(Annex 7) set out a conservative financial management approach: paid-in cash
equity including retained earnings and reserves would at least equal two
thirds of debt; the acid test ratio would exceed 0.66; development loans from
the World Bank or DSF would at a minimum be repaid in proportion to sales;
with the exception of trunk infrastructure, the amount of on-site
infrastructure under construction at any one time would not exceed what is
needed for the next year's sales program; construction of housing on a
power-of-attorney basis would be undertaken only if down payment and agreed
housing loans at least equal the construction cost for the house and the sales
price for the land.
Marketing Strategy and Pricing Policy
4.17     The UUDCs would develop land for sale to individual households, local
small builders, and cooperatives as well as large regional and national
building developers.  The land would be zoned and subdivided for
owner-occupied apartments, row houses, and free-standing units. Due at least
in part to the shortage of serviced land -  which the HUDCs would start to
correct - most recent formal sector housing in Turkey has taken the form of
apartment blocks. The growth of gecekondu areas with single family houses
demonstrates the high demand for individual units, however. Since a major
part of the potential demand for HUDC land would come from recent migrants
from rural areas who prefer to live on their own plot of land rather than in
apartments, at least one half of the land targeted for sales to low-income
households would be sold as plots for single family units. '
4.18     The sales prices for land would be set sufficiently high to recover
- at a minimum and in real terms - all the costs of raw land, on-site
infrastructure, and one third of off-site infrastructure plus all finance
charges and overhead costs. Current market prices for serviced land near the
proposed HUDC sites are well above the levels required for full cost
recovery. At least half of the land would be sold at prices that are
affordable to households with below median incomes. The results of a
1/ In Iskenderun where suitable building land is more scarce and, thus,
expensive, a smaller percentage of the land would be zoned for single
family units.



- 39 -
household survey carried out in Adana indicate this objective would be
achieved if the land price per housing unit would be no more than TL 640,000
in December 1985 prices.'' This would imply a price of TL 5,500-8,000 per
square meter which is somewhat higher than land prices in most gecekondu
areas. Nevertheless, the HUDC plots are likely to be highly competitive since
they would be fully serviced with infrastructure and social facilities.
Designs reviewed indicate that single dwelling plots in Adana, Mersin, and
Tarsus would be produced at these prices without cross subsidy. In
Iskenderun, a cross subsidy from the sale of high-income plots at market
prices would be required.
4.19     The proposed HUDC programs would accommodate between 16 percent (in
Iskenderun) to 35 percent (in Tarsus) of the projected increase in households
during the project period. Given the high service standards in the HUDC areas
and the competitive prices, the proposed programs are considered as feasible
and realistic. HUDCs will carry out household surveys (at the latest, within
three years of the first families moving onto the site, i.e., in 1990) to
gather information on beneficiaries' views on services provided, to establish
the characteristics of actual beneficiaries in terms of income group,
occupational categories, etc., and to update information on financing
mechanisms. These surveys will assist the HUDCs to modify the product mix in
response to changing market conditions and to verify whether they are indeed
reaching the low-income groups.
Expected Financial Performance
4.20     The financial projections for the HUDCs have been based on the
assumptions that plots for high and middle-income groups would be sold at
prevailing market prices near the project sites and that low-income plots are
priced according to the principles described in para. 4.18. The HUDCs are
expected to be highly profitable under these assumptions. The details for the
HUDC in Mersin are presented in Annex 12. They show that no further equity
contributions would be required after 1987 and that debt repayments would
exceed new debt from 1988. Financing of the ongoing program after that year
would come essentially from down payments and retained earnings. The debt
equity ratio would fall from 0.8 in 1987 to less than 0.1 in 1989. The net
profit after taxes would range between 13 percent and 16 percent of sales
during the 1988-92 period. Sensitivity analyses indicate that, with proper
management, the HUDC would remain profitable under a reasonable range of
pessimistic assumptions about the rate of sales and the price for market
plots. Large losses could accumulate rapidly if management were not active
and businesslike, however. In these circumstances, it would be est.ential to
retain sufficient liquidity during the early period when expenses of operation
and development accrue in advance of sales revenues. This need for caution is
reflected in the policy statements (see para. 4.16). For this reason also,
HUDCs would be required to submit quarterly accounts to PRIMU to assist with
monitoring their financial performance (para. 2.34), and audited accounts
would be produced within three months of the financial year end (versus six
months for other entities).
1/ Annex 13 contains the rationale for this affordable price estimate.



- 40 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Imat
General
5.01     The project would help refine and implement the Government's
decentralization policy. It would help build up Iller Bank's capacity to
appraise and supervise municipal investment programs and prepare it for an
expanded role as a financial intermediary. The project would demonstrate --
in the Cukurova cities - the viability of the new urban development policies
and municipal management practices.
Economic Justification
5.02     The economic rate of return on components comprising 53 percent of
project cost for which benefits could be quantified is estimated at 30
percent. The quantifiable costs and benefits of the project have been
evaluated based on market prices (expressed in constant December 1985
terms)."' The time horizon for discounting benefits and costs was 2014 (20
years after project completion). The details of the economic analyses are
presented in Annex 13 and summarized below; Annex 14 lists the project files
which contain further details on the financial and economic analyses.
5.03     The key economic benefits of upgrading and housing management
components consist of: (a) the increase in rental values of housing units due
to improvements in services and (b) the increment in property values, over and
above what is reflected in rental values, from legalization and increased
security of tenure. Results of regressions of rentals on housing
characteristics, estimated from the household surveys carried out during
project preparation in the gecekondu areas, yielded estimates of increases in
rental values from upgrading existing areas of about TL 3,800 to 4,400 per
month (in December 1985 prices, depending on the town), and benefits of
servicing new areas (compared with installing no services1") of about
TL 4,800 to 7,900 per housing unit per month. Regressions of housing value on
housing characteristics indicated that the value of dwelling units with legal
individual tenure was 23 percent higher than the value of units without legal
tenure, other things equal. Adjusting for the 4 percent premium in rental
values of legal units, this implies that legalization itself results in a
property value increase of 19 percent. The economic rates of return (ERRs)
have been calculated including as well as excluding this "title"
benefit.3-   They have been estimated on a program rather than a site basis,
1/  An analysis of the composition of costs indicated that most conversion
factors are very close to the standard conversion factor, which would be
applied to all benefits since they are domestic. Thus, the use of market
prices introduces no bias in the economic rate of return calculation.
2/  Excluding electricity, which is widespread and was assumed to be provided
whether or not specific programs were undertaken.
3/  Title benefits were assumed to accrue in the year that upgrading takes
place, or, in the case of infill, when houses are built, while rental
benefits accrue starting after completion of the upgrading.



- 41 -
Table 5.1: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
OF AREA-BASED URBAN DEVELOPMENT COMPONENTS
Adana     Mersin   Tarsus  Cerhan  Iskenderun
(----------------percent------------------)
Upgrading
Base Case: Including Title Benefits   96.0        61.4     34.4        -      73.3
Excluding title benefits               19.0       17.8     12.1        -      17.4
Housing Management
Base Case: Including Title Benefits  133.2        73.0     32.9        -     118.1
Excluding title benefits               37.5       30.0     14.8        -      30.2
Urban Expansion Areas
Base Case: Excluding Title Benefits   17.1' >   15.6        9.4        6.4    17.3
(a) Although the Adana HUDC is not being financed under the project, this ERR
was calculated for purposes of comparison.
that is, calculating identical benefits for all households, and including
costs of all roads, water, sanitation, and drainage works in the upgrading and
housing management program for that town. Operating and maintenance costs
were not taken into account since they would be recovered from tariffs and
taxes not included in the benefit forecast.
5.04     Benefits of the urban expansion area programs were estimated as the
rental value of land sold for residential purposes, and the price of land sold
for commercial and workshop use. Analysis of the household and gecekondu
surveys indicated that the average ratio of rental to property value was about
Se5 percent, and this ratio was applied to land for families in the upper half
of the income distribution who, it was assumed, would - in the absence of the
project -- find serviced land in other formal areas. For lower income people,
however, the alternative without the project would be an unserviced plot on
the urban periphery; for them the rental value of the land sold includes an
explicit adjustment to reflect the value of the services being provided by the
project. Their rental values were therefore estimated as the average rental
value of unserviced land derived from the gecekondu surveys plus an increment
in rental values applicable to housing units in housing management areas
(para. 5.03). A conservative bias was imparted to the estimated benefits by
excluding any title benefits or benefits from households settling on the site
in future years. Costs were estimated as the rental value of the land without
the project (5.5 percent of capital value), investment costs of site
preparation, and on-site and off-site water, sanitation, drainage, and roads.
Future costs of operation and maintenance were not estimated as they would be
defrayed from tariffs, charges, and taxes not included in rental values.
Costs of electricity and telephones were excluded since the benefits of those
services were not estimated. Similarly, costs of educational and health
facilities were excluded as being justified on the basis of nonquantified



- 42 -
benefits.  It should be noted, however, that all costs of land, water,
sanitation, roads and civil works connected with electricity and
telecomunications, including those used by social facilities, were included
in costs, which imparts a conservative bias to the ERRs4 The lower rates of
return in Ceyhan and Tarsus than the other cities are due to the higher price
of land in Ceyhan, and lower estimated rentals of low-income housing based on
the gecekondu survey results for Tarsus. Addition of title benefits in these
two towns would generate ERRs of 8.4 percent in Ceyhan and 12.4 percent in
Tarsus.
5.05     Benefits of water and sanitation investments were estimated as the
marginal value of incremental water consumed,,plus access benefits paid in the
form of connection fees. Marginal value for each group of consumers is the
marginal tariff, including water price, sewerage surcharges, and VAT (at a
rate of 12 percent). Incremental water consumed was estimated as forecast
water consumption, less estimated consumption without investments to upgrade
and expand water and sanitation services, which w.s assumed to decrease at 2.5
percent per annum until the horizon. Health benefits likely to arise from
improved water and sanitation services were not quantified. The investments
to be undertaken represent least cost solutions. Costs included all forecast
investment costs in water and sanitation during the period 1987 to 1994
(including costs of ongoing Iller Bank works, and nonproject investments in
connections outside project areas and network investments which commence in
1993 and 1994 when the project is finishing). Operating costs allocable to
the project were estimated as the share of incremental water consumption to
total water consumption.
Table 5.2: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN OF WATER AND SANITATION COMPONENTS
Adana    Mersin    Tarsus    Ceyhan    Iskenderun
Water Supply Decrease
"Without the Project"
. 2.5X per annum (Base)      16.8      8.9       8.9       11.2         12.8
0% per annum               11.2      6.0      -2.8        3.9          7.6
5.06     The drainage components would have a substantial impact on health in
areas subject to flooding, particularly in reducing incidence of malaria,
hepatitis, dysentery, and gastro-enteritis. They would also lead to some
increase in property values (the gecekondu survey found that, other things
equal, housing units subject to flooding earned rentals about 11 percent lower
than other houses). The solid waste components would produce two major
benefits: improved efficiency of collection, resulting in a better standard of
service to customers, and reduced environmental and health threats when
existing unsystematic dumps are replaced with properly managed landfills. The
benefits of the road maintenar.ce component would be a better standard of
roads, and, over time, lower maintenance costs as routine and periodic
maintenance activities reduce the costs of emergency repairs and
reconstructing heavily damaged roads. Due to the importance of intangible
benefits, and inherent difficulties of estimating those benefits which are
quantifiable, ERRs have not been estimated for these components, which
together account for about 17 percent of project cost.



- 43 -
5.07     First year rates of return were estimated for the main road segments
to be upgraded in Adana, Mersin, and Tarsus. Benefits were estimated on the
basis of savings in vehicle operating costs and passenger time savings. No
estimates were made of savings from accident reduction or reduced maintenance
expenditures. Time savings were estimated on the basis of estimates of the
speed and volume, of traffic with and without the project in 1992, in turn
based on forecast volume/capacity ratios for 1992. Passenger time savings
were valued at one third of estimated wages (TL 87 per hour for bus
passengers, and TL 174 per hour for car passengers in December 1985 prices).
Operating cost savings were estimated for automobiles, trucks, and buses. The
weighted average ERR was 28.6 percent on road components, which account for
about 5 percent of total project cost.
Urban Poverty Impact
5.08     The citywide engineering and institution-building components of the
project would benefit all residents of the Cukurova cities. According to the
household survey of Adana residents carried out during project preparation
(Annex 13), at least 57 percent of the population in that town had incomes
below the Bank-defined urban poverty level (37.5 percent of per capita GNP).
General household surveys were not carried out in the other towns. However,
partial gecekondu household surveys in these towns report incomes that were
somewhat higher than in Adana. On this basis it is estimated that about half
of their population belong to the poverty group. The beneficiaries of the
upgrading and housing management components are likely to correspond to
inhabitants of gecekondu areas. The surveys indicated that about 65 percent
of gecekondu inhabitants in Adana were in the poverty group, 61 percent in
Mersin, 58 percent in Tarsus, and 73 percent in Iskenderun. Somewhat over 50
percent of the beneficiaries of the Urban Expansion Areas would belong to the
poverty group. Taking a ratio of 60 percent for gecekondu and housing
mAnagement areas, and 50 percent for other components, implies that about 52
percent of costs would benefit members of the Bank-defined poverty group.
Environmental Impact
5.09     The sanitation, drainage, and solid waste management components would
have a significant impact on improving environmental sanitation in the project
cities. The project would introduce sewage treatment and sanitary landfills
to the region. Sewage disposal to the sea is likely to remain the only
affordable solution for Mersin and Iskenderun for the next couple of decades,
and the project aims to ensure that sea outfalls are located and designed so
as to limit any environmental damage. By organizing specific entities with
responsibility for water and sanitation management, and through technical
assistance on wastewater management, the project woild help to establish a
local capacity to deal effectively with industrial effluents which will pose
an increasing threat as the area continues to develop.
B. Proqect Risks
5.10     This project faces four main sources of risk.  In increasing order of
significance for project success they are: financial risks associated with
changes in the Turkish economy, risks that some components would not be
satisfactorily implemented due to the difficulty of making simultaneous
improvements in several fields in five cities, risks that the PRIMN would not



- 44 -
be able to play its key role, and risks tied to changes in local and national
policies. The "macro" risk comprises the possible impact of future interest,
inflation, and exchange rates on the creditworthiness of the municipalities
and their subsidiary entities. As described in Chapter IV, the financial
policies to be implemented under the project, taken with the conservative
nature of the base forecasts, provide assurance that the project entities
should be able to respond to adverse circumstances without serious effects on
the investment program.
5.11     There is no doubt that some project components will not be
implemented as presently planned. By the same token, other components are
likely to be implemented in better ways than expected. These variations in
performance and other factors influencing resource availability and investment
priorities would create a need to wodify municipal investment programs.
Municipal planning, programming, and budgeting capabilities are being
established to deal with this. Furthermore, the PRIMU would annually review
the municipal investment programs and financing plans, and reallocate the loan
funds between components and municipalities as needed. The PRIMU would also
appraise new subprojects. It should also be noted that in order to provide a
fair model for future replication throughout Turkey, it would be essential for
the project to cover several municipalities of varying sizes. Although the
upgrading of all municipal functions would be desirable, this would lead to
excessive complexity of the project. Thus, it was agreed with the Government
and the municipalities that the project should focus more narrowly on
engineering services (which is the area in which most of the increase in
municipal responsibilities has occurred), financial management, and staff
training (in which the deficiencies are presently most conspicuous). This
package is believed to be of sufficient scale and importance to make a
substantial impact on the management of urban growth in the project
municipalities and to provide lessons that are representative enough to be
applied more generally in Turkish municipalities.
5.12     Project success would depend critically on the PRIMU and its
practical capacity to allocate Central Government resources to project
municipalities according to agreed criteria, the performance of project
municipalities, and changing circumstances. In order to ensure that the Iller
Bank would be able to engage staff of sufficient caliber to exercise the PRIMU
functions adequately, Iller Bank would supplement its own staff with
professionals engaged on contract terms. Careful monitoring of PRIMU, and
substantial assistance during supervision missions to PRIMU during the early
years, are intended to mitigate the risk of poor performance.
5.13     Two levels of political risk are associated with this project:
commitment to project goals and policies at the local level in the light of
electoral politics, and the depth and continuity of the Central Government's
commitment to decentralization. On the first, the exigencies of electoral
politics may lead to uneven performance on cost recovery. The continuous
monitoring of municipal performance and creditworthiness through PRIMU
provides an important safeguard in this respect. In the longer term, project
success depends on continuation of the Government's decentralization policy,
including existing financial arrangements among different levels of
government. Decentralization marks a basic policy departure in Turkey, and
future administrations may shift back towards a more centralized system by
lessening resources allocated to local governments, by reducing the
predictability o; resource flows, and by placing more bureaucratic controls



- 45 -
ovir specific local decisions on finance, investments, procurement, and
staffing. Such changes would diminish the incentives oi local governments to
plan and manage their programs along the lines being supported by this
project. Since the basic project objective is to assist implementation of
decentralization, reversal of that policy would compromise the institution
building and, with delay, the physical objectives of the project. Such an
event would signal the need for a thorough review, and perhaps a restructuring
of the project.
VI. ASSURANCES, AGREEMENTS, AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     Agreements Reached at Negotiations:
(a) Treasury would relend funds to Iller Bank on identical terms to Bank
loan (after deduction of administration fee of 2.75 percent) and
Iller Bank would relend funds to project entities on same terms, with
exception of loans for HUDCs which would be repaid pro rata with HUDC
land sales, and funds for CMTA which would be passed on a grant basis
(para. 2.20).
(b)  Government would finance social facilities and cause finance to be
made available for implementation of electricity and telecommunica-
tions subcomponents (para. 2.21).
(c)  Municipalities would recover from HUDCs, at a minimum, the cost of
the land revalued by the rate of inflation from date of purchase by
the municipality, plus 2 percent interest (para. 2.22) plus at least
one third of off-site infrastructure costs (para. 4.07).
(d)  Iller Bank would make funds available to project municipalities for
the project from its own resources and the Municipal Fund on terms no
more favorable than those applicable to other municipalities (para.
2.23).
(e)  Municipalities would contribute to WSDs and HUDCs (to the latter in
the form of equity finance) in the amounts needed for these entities
to achieve their financial objectives (para. 2.24).
(f)  Action plan for initial period, including timetable for procurement
of professional services and technical assistance included in the
project (para. 2.25 and Annex 4).
(g)  Project entities would keep accounts of the project and their
operations (paras. 2.34-2.35) and submit accounts and audit reports
to the Bank within six months of the year end (para. 2.36).
(h)  Project entities would submit semi-annual progress reports to PRIMU
(quarterly for HUDCs), and PRIMU would report semi-annually to the
Bank (para. 2.37) and PRIMU would prepare a PCR (para. 2.38).
(i)  Municipalities would strengthen financial staff and implement
accounting improvements (para. 3.08 and Annex 4).



- 46 -
(j)  Government would, by September 30, 1987, take regulatory action to
permit and require municipalities to upgrade their accounting systems
(para. 3.08).
(k)  Municipality policy statements regarding operation, financing, and
management of HUDCs would be agreeable to the Bank and would only be
changed with Bank concurrence (para. 3.11).
(1)  Ceyhan UEA would be implemented by its Department of Urban Land
Management in accord with policies for marketing and cost recovery
similar to those followed by the HUDCs (paras. 3.12 and 4.07).
(m) Recruitment of the principal PRIMU staff, including its principal
technical assistance staff by September 30, 1987 (para. 3.17).
(n)  PRIMU's role, responsibilities, and operating procedures (para. 3.17)
including, inter alia, that:
(i) PRIMU would not approve any investments to a municipality until
the project coordinator of that municipality was appointed
(para. 3.03);
(ii) PRIMU would approve investments for any component only after
the formal establishment and appointment of the director of the
responsible authority/department/unit [WSD or ASKI in the case
of water and sanitation, units charged with upgrading and
housing management, solid waste management department, and
roads department in the case of those components] (para. 3.04);
(iii) PRIMU would not approve award of civil works contracts before
supervision consultants were appointed by the municipality for
the relevant component (para. 3.06);
(iv) PRIMU would not approve investments by an HUDC before formal
approval by its parent municipality of the policy statement on
H UDCs (para. 3.11); and
(v) PRIMU would not approve investments in water and sanitation
components unless the WSD (ASKI) was estimated to be achieving
its financial targets in the current year (para. 4.13).
(o)  Municipalities would recover costs from beneficiaries (para. 4.07).
(p)  Municipalities would maintain water and sanitation tariffs sufficient
to recover costs and make a contribution to water and sanitation
investments [at least 20 percent of the water and sanitation
investments by 1992] (para. 4.13).



-47-
6.02     Conditions of Effectiveness:
Execution of the Project Agreements by the Iller Bank and project
municipalities, of the SLA between Government and the Iller Bank, and of the
Municipality Financing Agreements (MFAs) between ID and the municipalities
(para. 1.20);
6.03     Subject to agreement on the above points, the project would be
suitable for US$120 million lank finance on standard terms (17 years with 4
years of grace), of which US$6 million would be retroactive.



-15- v 1d 511 
aOVd  IH
-j4-



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 15
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUNICIPAL ENGINEERING SERVICES
This annex presents in detail the water supply, sanitation,
transportation, and solid waste management facilities in each of the five
project municipalities and plans for their upgrading.
Adana
1.       Water Supply.  The city is now entirely dependent on groundwater for
its supplies. Although future use may be made of surface water sources, this
is not expected for many years and certainly not within the project period.
At present, about 70 unmetered municipal wells produce an estimated 190,000
m3/d. (In addition, there are over 400 private wells, many of them used by
industry.) Municipal tubewells are scattered widely, but there are also a few
clearly defined wellfields. Some, but not all, of the wells have chlorinators
although disinfection is generally unsatisfactory. Storage capacity in the
system is lacking with the water from the wells pumped directly into supply.
The distribution network has not kept pace with the city's expansion, and many
pipes have insufficient capacity to carry the flows needed to satisfy demand.
A large percentage of pipes are old and in deteriorating condition; bursts are
frequent.
2.       The project would improve water supply as follows:
(a)  The means of production will be rationalized.  Two existing well
fields will be renovated and two new ones will be developed.  A
hydrogeological study has been included in the project to determine
the most suitable locations for the new wells. Some of the scattered
wells will be abandoned but a few which are in good order will be
retained as a reserve.  Altogether some 36 new wells will be
developed and 20 existing wells will be re-equipped. The four well
fields will each have ground level collection reservoirs with pumping
stations to deliver chlorinated water either to storage reservoirs or
directly into supply.
(b) The area of supply will be divided into zones with storage in each.
A new primary distribution network will be laid in the sloping area
between the 13 m and 150 m contours. Three zones will be created;
Zone 1 from 15 m to 50 m; Zone 2 from 50 m to 90 m; and Zone 3 from
90 m to 150 m.  Zone I is by far the greatest in area and population
and will be served by a 60,000 m3 reservoir which will be built in
two modules of 30,000 m3. Zone 2 will be served by a reservoir of



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 15
9,000 m3.  Each will have associated pumping stations for staging
water to higher levels. (Zone 3 will be served by a temporary
arrangement for the project period). About 66 km of primary mains,
transmission mains, and feeder mains will be laid ranging from 250 mm
to 1,400 mm in diameter. About 265 km of secondary and tertiary
distribution mains (50 mm to 200 mm in diameter) will also be laid.
The project also provides for about 13,000 house connections, all of
which will be metered.
3.       Sanitation.  The existing sewerage networks in Adana operate as
combined systems which discharge into the Seyhan River or to other water
courses and drainage channels. In some areas septic tanks are in use. The
sewers are generally in poor condition due to low standards of design,
construction, and maintenance. Insufficient capacity, poor gradients, and bad
pipe jointing result in blockages, leakages, and overflows. During storms
flooding occurs with floodwater contamined by sewage.
4.       In 1976, a feasibility study proposed a new trunk sewerage system
draining to a treatment plant which was to be located in the southwest sector
of the city. Considerable lengths of the trunk sewers have been constructed
but until now they have not been connected together and so remain unused. The
treatment plant site would have involved discharging to a drainage channel
offering no dilution and therefore requiring a high degree of treatment. To
obtain the benefit of the dilution offered by the Seyhan River the project
would instead provide for two sewage treatment plants, one on each side of the
river. Each side of the river would also have its own system of trunk
sewers. On the east side of the river the sewers have been about 85 percent
completed and on the west about 50 percent.
5.       The Adana Water and Sanitation Corporation, through its consultants
and contractors, as part of the project, will construct the outfall collector
on the east side of the Seyhan River together,with the sewage pumping station
and sewage treatment plant at Bucak; construct the outfall collector, the
sewage pumping station, and the sewage treatment plant at Dutlu on the west
side of Seyhan; construct the outfall sewer from the UEA which will connect to
the Iller Bank network north of E-5. The project includes about 22 km of
trunk sewers (300 mm - 1,600 mm diameter), two sewage pumping station, and two
sewage treatment plants (anaerobic ponds) with effluent outfalls discharging
into the Seyhan River. In addition, under activities closely coordinated with
trunk sewer construction about 175 km of branch sewers (mostly 150-250 mm
diameter) with about 7,400 property connections would be laid. Emphasis would
be placed on maximizing the benefits to be obtained by connecting secondary
and tertiary branch sewers to the trunk sewers and completing house
connections.
6.       Stormwater drainage would be provided in those mahalles most affected
by flooding: Doseme, Hurmali, Cinarli, Koprulu, and Kisla. In those areas
existing combined sewers, where suitable, would become fully separated foul
sewers and new surface water drains would be laid. In all, about 115 km (300
mm - 1,200 mm diameter plus box culverts up to 4.5 m x 2.25 m) would be
provided under the project.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 15
7.       Transportation.  The project component addresses maintenance and new
works. Urgent deficiencies will be remedied by an immediate action plan to
correct the effects of poor routine maintenance. Primary and secondary roads
would be repaired during the first two years of the project and tertiary roads
in the ensuing years.
8.       A program would be introduced to bring the overall condition of the
pavement structure to a level so that subsequent, continuing annual
expenditure on routine maintenance will prevent further deterioration. This
will include provision of adequate road drainage systems, the shaping of road
profiles, and the provision of overlays to restore pavement strength. This
work will be completed for primary and secondary roads within the project
period. An ongoing program of routine maintenance will be introduced that
includes provision of plant and equipment as well as a substantial input of
technical assistance.
9.       The project's new road works include proposals for widening and
improving existing roads, for the construction of new roads, and for
improvement of road junctions. In order of priority these are:
(a) Widening of the 5.3 km of the Karaisali road between E5 and the
proposed trans-European motorway.
(b) Construction of about 2.3 km of a new section of the Eastern District
Road between the Sag Isale Kanali and the smaller canal at the
boundary of the Urban Expansion Area.
(c) Upgrading of about 11.7 km of the inner ring road along the
irrigation channel (Sag Isale Kanali) which will connect with the
existing highway on the west bank of the Seyhan River.
(d) Widening of some 1.9 km of the Karatas road south of the Roman Bridge.
(e) Redesign and reconstruction of six major intersections (four on E5;
one on Karatas Road, one at west end of Roman Bridge).
(f) Construction of two pedestrian overpasses on ES.
10.      Solid Waste Management.  Adana's waste disposal is carried out under
contract arrangements of which three contracts are-current. The effectiveness
of-this method of disposal will be evaluated some six months before the first
expiry of a contract to determine whether Adana should continue employing
contractors to do this work or to revert to the old system of employing their
own manpower and other resources.
11.      The project will improve the effectiveness of the arrangements by
creating three cleansing districts and by exercising stricter control over
contractors' activities. The project includes the acquisition of a site for
sanitary landfill with provision for design and supervision of construction
and an element of technical assistance aimed at improving management capacity
and the use of sanitary landfill methods.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 15
Ceyhan
12.      Water Supply. Ceyhan's present dependence on groundwater sources is
expected to end by mid-1987 when a pipe line from Tatarli Springs is completed
and commnissioned. Because these works will assure Ceyhan of an adequate
supply the project does not include a component for major water supply
hardware investments. Instead the component aims at helping the Water and
Sanitation Corporation to discharge its functions efficiently, particularly
reduction of unmeasured water. The project will include technical assistance
to provide, inter alia, training in the use of equipment and techniques for
locating water supply apparatus in the ground and for the detection of leaks.
Provision is made for the introduction of zoning with zonal metering and for
developing a data base and establishing a record system. The project
component would also include the construction of a workshop and administration
building.
13.      Sanitation.  Ceyhan is partially served by a combined
sewerage/stormwater drainage system. About 50 percent of the population is
believed to be served by this system, which discharges untreated sewage by a
number of outfalls to the Ceyhan River. About 40 percent of the population
are served by septic tanks and about 10 percent use pit latrines. In Ceyhan,
a service for emptying septic tanks is operated by the Fire Service. As the
arrangement appears to be effective, there are no proposals for change. In
contrast, the sewerage system is unsatisfactory: many lines have been laid
with open joints, falls are slight, manholes are almost nonexistent, and
records scarce. The development of the town on the flat terrain, comb4ned-
with the inadequacy of the drainage system and a high water table, has lead to
serious water-logging and ponding following rainfall. Continued expansion on
the town is aggravating the situation.
14.      The project will make a start in developing effective sanitary
arrangements for Ceyhan. Because of the wide difference between stormwater
flow and sewage flow the adoption of a combined system would result in pipe
sizes much too large for the dry weather sewage flow. The town therefore
proposes to develop separate systems of sewers and drains, incorporating as
much of the eAisting system into the new arrangement as is feasible. The town
lies wholly on the left bank of the river, and the sewerage arrangement will
eventually be based on an interceptor sewer laid alongside the river
discharging into the well of a pumping station on the south (downstream) side
of the town. The pumping station would deliver sewage to a plant for
treatment through anaerobic, facultative, and maturation ponds. The project
would provide only a limited part of the overall scheme. The interceptor
sewer, for example, would not be constructed under the project and only a
limited provision for sewage treatment would be made.
15.      A new, separate system of sewers would be constructed in the southern
part of the town to serve the mahalles of Gaziosmanpasa and Mithatpasa.
Sewers would also be constructed to serve the development area at the north
end of Ceyban (under the urban expansion component). The work would be
constructed in two phases. In phase one, the pumping station would be
constructed with a short (temporary) discharge to the river. The sewers in



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 15
Gaziosmanpasa Mahalle would be constructed and connected to the pumping
station. Also. in the first phase an anaerobic pond would be constructed on
the sewage treatment plant site which is situated between the villages of
Yilankale and Buyukmangit. In the second phase, a sewage lift station would
be constructed to receive flows from sewers which would be laid in Mithatpasa
Mahalle. The lift station would discharge into a sewer connecting to the
phase one works.
16.      About 10 km of trunk sewers (300-900 mm) and 24 km of branch sewers
(150-200 mm) with about 2,400 property connections would also be constructed.
Within the mahalles new surface water drains would be laid although existing
pipes would be used for surface water drainage where their location and
condition permits. The project also provides for disconnecting house drains
and reconnecting them to the new sewers, installirg road gulleys, and
connecting them to the surface water drains. From the main pumping station a
force main (600 mm) would be laid to the sewage treatment plant site and 1.7
km distant; and the temporary discharge to the river would be disconnected.
About 4.2 km (300-1,600 mm) surface water drains would be laid. This length
depends on how much use can be made of existing sewers as part of the new
surface water drainage system.
17.      Solid Waste Management.  Methods of waste collection and disposal in
Ceyhan are excessively labor intensive with collections averaging less than 1
ton/man/day. In most mahalles curbside collection is practiced. Containers
used by householders are small, and vehicles have small capacity resulting in
frequent trips to dispose of the waste. The refuse is simply dumped.
18.      The project aims to improve the efficiency of the existing
organization by restructuring, introducing collection districts, and providing
new refuse vehicles and containers. Instead of dumping, sanitary landfill
methods of disposal will be introduced. Training of all staff engaged in
solid waste management activities will be provided through the project, and
part of the training will be concerned with the introduction of preventive
maintenance schedules for all vehicles and equipment. Technical assistance
will also provide guidance on routing; and in preparing master schedules for
each collection route. Ceyhan is in possession of a suitable site (about 8
ha) for sanitary landfill and the project proposals envisage its continued use.
19.      The project would provide for acquiring the following items of
equipment:
Vehicles                                 No
12 m3 Refu4e Vehicles                     5
Container Cleaning Vehicle                I
Mechanical Street Sweeper                  1
Street Washing Vehicle                    1
Containers (Wheeled)
0.24 m'                               1,250
1.1 m3                                   70
5 m3                                      4
Workshop Tools and Equipment



-54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 15
20.      Administration, workshop, and stores would be centralized and new
premises would be constructed to serve the purpose. A weighbridge would be
installed at the disposal site.
Iskenderun
21.      Water SUPPlY.  The city's supply of water is already insufficient to
meet demand. The supply comes from a number of wells and springs. These are:
Rated            Estimated
No. of         Flow               Flow
Source                      Pumps          1/8               1/s
Pinarbasi
Well-spring               6            440                240
Borehole Well             2            160                120
Airport Boreholes             3             137                 70
Narduzu.Boreholes             2              70                50
Ackay Boreholes               2              80                50
Askarbeyli Spring             -               _                20 gravity flow
540
540 1/s is equivalent to 46,660 m3/day but this flow is never achieved and
actual maximum supply estimated at no more than 450 1/s (38,880 m3/day)
compared with a 1990 demand of 55,000 m3/day.  In addition to the above
sources there are about 70 private boreholes/wells used mainly by industry or
the military or for irrigation. The city needs both new sources and a program
to reduce high levels of unaccounted for water.
22.      The project includes as a first priority a hydrogeological study to:
(a) delineate the major acquifers and their recharge areas;
(b) determine the characteristics of each acquifer;
(c) establish the safe yield of existing sources; and
(d) determine the locations of sew sources, their recharge area(s) and
safe yield(s).
The second priority will be the introduction of a leak detection and waste
prevention program. In this connection, an early part of the work will
include a detailed examination of all sources. A source of water at Zufur
spring, at present used for irrigation, would be a useful supply for
Iskenderun. The possibility of providing farmers with water from the aluvium
in exchange for the Zufur supply is to be examined.



- 55 -
ANNE 1
Page 7 of 15
23.      Because of the nature of the terrain the supply system will be
arranged in zones as follows:
Zone                      Elevation (m)
1i                        n - 40  ) about 85 percent of the popixlation live
2                       450 - 100) in these zones
3                       100 - 130)
4                       130 - 165) not in project period
5                       165 - 200)
The project will provide storage reservoirs to command the pressure zones,
transmission, and distribution mains with connections to properties.
Rehabilitation work would be carried out at Pinarbasi Well, Ackay borehole and
on a break pressure tank at Maslak where a chlorinator will also be
installed. New wells (boreholes) will be developed at Pinarbasi (2), Ackay
(1), Military Marsh (7), and Dugunyrdu Bolge (2). Collection reservoirs will
be constructed at Pinarbasi (2,500 m3), Military Marsh (500 m3) and
Dugunyurdu Bolge (100 M3); at the last two sites pumping and chlorinating
equipment will be provided. Eight storage reservoirs will be constructed as
follows.
Reservoir Code              Capacity (m')
RlA                       4,500
RlC                       9,000
R2A                       2,500
R2B                       6,000
R4A                       1,000
RlB                      24,000
R3                        3,000
RN2                       1,250
Total Storage                 48,250 m3
About 50 km of transmission and primary mains (100 mm to 800 mm diameter) and
68 km of secondary and tertiary distribution mains will be laid, and some
18,000 connections will be provided.
24.      A technical assistance component will be included in the project to
support the Water and Sanitation Corporation in developing its management
capacity and in promoting its leak detection and waste prevention program.
25.      Sanitation.  The pipe lines of the original combined sewerage system
and its extensions have been laid flat or nearly so. This has resulted in
accumulations of solids and, as manholes are nearly absent, maintenance is a
serious and continuous problem. The sewers are mostly of concrete pipes but
these are open jointed and, as the water table in Iskenderun is high, there is
steady infiltration of groundwater into the system. There are few records of
the location of sewers. The network is inadequate and there is localized
flooding after rain.  Outside the sewered areas septic tanks are used, but



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 15
because of the incidence of rock near the surface, the tanks tend to be
small. With a high water table, effluent disposal from the tanks is difficult
and much of the effluent finds its way to the surface.
26.      It is proposed to construct a completely new sewerage system and to
provide a part of the proposed system as a project component. As the project
progresses, existing sewers will, where suitable, be used as surface water
drains. Ultimate disposal of the sewage will be to the sea, as the only
affordable solution for the next decade. However, the location of the outfall
is unknown and under the project an oceanographic study will be made to
determine a suitable site for a sea outfall. Meanwhile, the project
activities will be limited to works in the central part of town. The sewers
constructed will drain to a pumping station to be built at the main jetty
along which a temporary discharge pipe will be laid. Because part of the
south/southwest part of the town will not drain by gravity into the CBD
sewers, a lift station will be provided.
27.      In addition to the pumping station and the lift station the project
will provide about 19 km of trunk sewers (200 to 1,000 mm diameter) and the
temporary outfall mentioned above. When the location of the sea outfall
becomes known the pumping station discharge arrangements will be suitably
altered so that the only redundant work will be the temporary discharge pipe.
Secondary and tertiary sewers of about 118 km will be laid in those central
areas which will be served by the new trunk sewerage system. About 14,000
connections will be provided under thQ project.
28.      The project will also provide stormwater drainage works in the
central area which is the only part of the town that suffers major
difficulties in times of heavy rain, especially when this coincides with a
high tide. Where practical, existing sewers will be used as drains when the
new sewers have been laid; where necessary new drains will be laid and road
gulleys will be installed and connected. In all about 330 ha of the central
area will benefit.
29.      Transportation.  Although the project will provide for some new
works, the principal objective will be to improve maintenance capability
through organizational and managerial improvements as well as the provision of
equipment and vehicles. The maintenance component has three parts:
(a) An immediate action program to correct the effects of substandard
routine maintenance in the past. Primary and secondary roads will be
completed within the first two years of the project period. The
tertiary road network would receive attention during the remainder of
the project period.
(b) A program to improve the overall condition of the network pavement
will include provision of road drainage, shaping of road profiles,
cambers and cross-falls, and the provision of overlays to restore
pavement strength. This work will be completed, for the primary and
secondary road network, over the project implementation period.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 15
(c) An ongoing program of routine maintenance designed to minimize
periodic maintenance requirements and to improve the standard of
transport service.
The capital works included in the project are for widening and improving
existing roads as follows:
Ozman Gazi Road                          (0.6 km)
Canal Road                               (1.25 km)
Eyup Caddesi                             (1.25 km)
Road to expansion area No. 7             (0.8 km)
In addition, provision will be made for redesign and reconstruction of two
major junctions on Route E5 where it passes through the central business
district, and signalization of major intersection on E5.
30.      Solid Waste Management.  Iskenderun runs its own solid waste
collection and disposal service. Refuse is collected daily (50 percent of
premises), every 2 days (30 percent), or twice weekly (20 percent). The
refuse vehicles are maintained oy the municipal central workshops. Collection
within the 24 mahalles of the town is made either from the curbside or from
communal containers, the latter being in general use in the area of medium to
high rise buildings. Disposal is by simple dumping. The project aims to
improve operational efficiency, namely labor inefficiencies and high
expenditure levels as follows:
(a) Through technical assistance, training will be provided to both
management and staff. An officer will be trained in methods of
dealing with hazardous wastes.
(b) The town will be divided into three cleansing districts. Collection
routes will be developed and master schedules will be prepared for
each collection route.
(c) Wheeled bins will be procured which will become the principal method
employed for refuse collection.
(d) Sanitary landfill will be introduced in place of the present method
of dumping.
(e) The Solid Waste Management Department will have workshop, storage,
parking, and administration offices centralized on one site.
Vehicles and equipment to be procured through the project are as follows:
Vehicles                                 No
8 m3 Refuse Vehicles                      5
12 m3 Refuse Vehicle                      5
16 m3 Refuse Vehicle                      4
Container Cleaning Vehicle                1
Mechanical Street Sweeper                 1
Street Washing Vehicle                    1



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 15
Containers (Wheeled)
0.12 m3                                 360
0.24 m3                               2,260
1.1 m3                                  160
5 m3                                     75
Mersin
31.      Water Supply.  Mersin has had a distribution network (mostly of 100
mm pipe) since 1938 with subsequent ad hoc additions. Until recently
groundwater has been the source of supply but under a plan prepared in 1976
and carried out first by D.S.I. and then by Iller Bank the Berdan River has
become the principal source; use of groundwater is being phased out. A dam on
the Berdan provides water for irrigation but D.S.I. also made an allocation of
95 million m3tyr divided between Mersin (66.6 million m3/yr) and Tarsus
(28.4 million m3/yr). This supply is treated at the Berdan Treatment Plant
(BTP). The Mersin supply flows by gravity from BTP to a storage reservoir Dl
through a 1,400 mm main. The plan also divided Mersin into seven supply zones
each commanded by a service reservoir as follows:
Zone      Contour (m)               Reservoir        Status
1           0      7                   DI            Functioning
2           7     28                   D2            Functioning
3          28     70                   D3            Under Construction
4          70    110                   D4            Under Construction
5         110    140                   D5            Proposed
The above reservoirs all lie or will lie east of Muftu Creek
6          40    100                   D6            Proposed
7         100    160                   D7            Proposed
32.      Agreement has been reached that by end 1987, Iller Bank's contractors
will complete these works on which they are currently engaged including
primary and secondary distribution maina, in particular reservoirs D3 and D4
including the pumping station at D4.. The existing transmission main from
Berdan, under present conditions governing flow, does not have sufficient
carrying capacity to meet Mersin's growing needs. To overcome this difficulty
the project will include provision of a pumping station at BTP, a pumping main
(300 m of 1400 m D.I. pipe) delivering to a balancing reservoir connecting to
the existing transmission main which terminates at reservoir Dl in Mersin.
The elevation of the balancing reservoir will allow an increase in the
velocity in the transmission main and thus achieve the desired delivery
requirements.  Storage at DI will be increased by 9,000 m3.  Storage at D2
will be increased by 20,000 M3.  About 9 km of primary distribution main
(200 mm - 300 mm diameter) will be laid. In addition 132 km of secondary and
tertiary distribution reticulation would be constructed with about 16,000
property connections. The project will also provide for procurement of
vehicles, equipment, and handtools, and for the establishment of a depot and
workshop for the Mersin Water and Sanitation Corporation.



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 15
33.      Under the project a program to reduce unaccounted for water by leak
detection and waste prevention would be introduced. A data base would be
developed and record drawings compiled. Production, bulk, and zonal metering
would be introduced. The current policy of universal consumption metering
would be continued. All of these activities will be supported by proposed
management structure reorganization and the procurement of operation and
maintenance equipment.
34.      Industry makes considerable use of groundwater in the Mersin area.
The municipality will obtain revenue from these abstractions. The groundwater
resources will be used while the Berdan works are proceeding and may,
intermittently, be needed in the future. The project will therefore provide
for a hydrogeological study in the Mersin/Taisus area.
35.      Sanitation.  The existing sewerage system is a gravity collection
network discharging through a number of outfall sewers directly into the sea.
The network functions as a combined system and covers about 55-60 percent of
the city. The principal outfall sewer discharges at the end of a long
breakwater. This sewer serves the major part of the city east of Muftu
Creek. On the landward end of the breakwater sewage passes through screens
and grit removal channels before entering a pumping station from which it is
discharged through the outfall. The existing trunk sewers are of insufficient
capacity to carry the combined foul and storm water flows, and there is
frequent flooding after rain. Part of the branch sewers are in need of
replacement or rehabilitation.
36.      A sewerage scheme was prepared on behalf of Mersin and Iller Bank but
until recently no action had been taken to execute the proposed works. Under
the Cukurova project, the proposals to construct an interceptor sewer along
the shore road to intercept all the sewers leading to the sea were reviewed
and incorporated. The interceptor would carry sewage to a central point near
the existing treatment plant for a sea discharge (after screening and grit
removal). In this connection, an oceanographic study will be included in the
project to determine the location of the outfall sewer which will not be
constructed during the project period. However, Iller Banks contractors have
started work on the eastern end of town and the proposals for the project have
been modified to accommodate these activities. It has been agreed that Iller
Bank's contractors will, by end 1987, complete the work they have commenced at
the east end of town, the westward limit being Tirmil Tepe.  The contractors
will also construct the interceptor along the shore road at the west end of
Mersin.
37.      The Mersin Water and Sanitation Corporation, through its consultants
and contractors, will construct the trunk sewerage system together with
secondary and tertiary sewers east of Muftu Creek and west of Tirmil Tepe;
will construct secondary and tertiary sewers west of Muftu Creek; will modify
the existing outfall arrangements at the breakwater near the harbor, by
increasing pumping capacity and renovating the existing outfall pipe; and will
install temporary discharge arrangements at the downstream ends of the eastern
and western systems being constructed by Iller Bank's contractors. In the
central part of the town, the project will reinforce existing combined sewers
in the central business district. North of the E24 existing combined sewers



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 15
will become foul sewers and separate arrangements will be made for dealing
with surface water. Trunk sewer construction will serve the whole central
area as far north as the Urban Expansion Area. There will be about 42 km of
trunk sewers (300 mm -2,200 mm diameter) and some 106 km of secondary and
tertiary branch collectors. Over the project period, some 13,000 new
connections will be made.
38.      Surface water will be dealt with a number of ways.  In the eastern
and western parts of the city, existing combined sewers will become surface
water drains after completion of new sewerage networks there. North of Route
E24, new surface water drains will be constructed to convey rainfall-runoff to
natural water courses. In the central business area, existing combined sewers
will be reinforced so that both foul sewage and rainfall run-off can be dealt
with adequately. About 22 km of surface water drains (300 mm to 1600 mm in
diameter) will be laid and about 600 road gulleys will be built and connected
to the sewers and surface water drains. The principal areas to receive
attention will be Ihsaniye Mahalle and Demirtas Mahalle.
39.      Transportation.  The project component places emphasis on improved
maintenance. To this end, a three-part road maintenance program will be
introduced:
(a) An immediate action plan to remedy the effects of poor routine
maintenance. For primary and secondary roads, this will be completed
by 1988; thereafter tertiary roads will be repaired for the remainder
of the project period.
(b) A program to upgrade the condition of the network pavement structure
to a level whereby subsequent annual expenditure on routine
maintenance will prevent further deterioration. This involves
provision of road drainage systems, shaping of road profiles, and
restoration of pavement strength. This program will be completed for
primary and secondary roads within the project implementation period.
(c) An ongoing program of routine maintenance designed to minimize
periodic maintenance requirements.
The project includes proposals for improvements to two existing roads, both of
which, inter alia, will-serve the Urban Expansion Area north of the center:
Camili road (about 3 km) and Gozne Road (about 3.75 km). In addition the
project provides for the redesigning and reconstruction of eight major
intersections, all on Route E24.
40.      Solid Waste Management.  Mersin Municipality employs its own staff on
refuse collection, including street sweeping and disposal. Refuse is treated
at a composting plant located about 8 km north of the town center on a 60 ha
site and which has been operating since January 1985. The workforce numbers
about 325 with 46 collection vehicles. Vehicles are maintained at the central
municipal workshop. Both curbside and communal collection methods are used.
The composting plant has been extensively modified since it was first
introduced and is now operating satisfactory. There is adequate space
available for sanitary landfill should the composting plant fail or be taken
out of service for maintenance purposes.



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 15
41.      The project sets out to improve efficiency by establishing a separate
Solid Waste Management Department and by providing adequate technical
assistance to develop solid waste management methods and techniques and to
introduce improved collection and disposal methods. Training would be
provided for all staff and labor. The city would be divided into six
collection districts and routings defined for all collection vehicles. The
covered wheeled container storage and collection arrangements would be
expanded and new collection vehicles and satellite vehicles procured. A
planned preventive maintenance program would be introduced, and the department'
would establish its own vehicle park and workshops area. The Municipality
will employ an officer in charge of hazardous waste and identify such wastes
and arrange for their safe handling and disposal. Special attention will be
given to hospital waste treatment and disposal.
The project would include procurement of the following:
Vehicles                                      No.
1.5 m3 .Stellite Vehicles                      2
12 m3 Refuse Vehicles                          8
16 m3 Refuse Vehicles                          5
Container Cleaning Vehicles                    1
Mechanical Street Sweeper                      2
Street Washing Vehicle                         I
Containers (Wheeled)
0.12 m3                                      415
0.24 m3                                    29850
1.1 m3                                       340
5    m3                                       45
Tarsus
42.      Water Supply.  At present, groundwater is the only source of supply.
However, works will shortly be completed which will enable Tarsus to draw its
supply from Berdan Water Treatment Plant.- This plant was built.by DSI but is
now the property of Mersin Municipality. .In early 1987, Mersin will become a
bulk supplier of water to Tarsus.  :In anticipation of the arrival of this new
supply, Iller Bank, through its contractors, has been layini primary
distribution networks in two pressure zones within the town and constructing
two service reservoirs (DYI and DY2). At DY1, a pumping station will be
constructed under the Iller Bank works to pump water to DY2. It has been
agreed with Tarsus Municipality that Iller Bank's contractors will complete
their activities on the construction of DY1 and DY2 together with the primary
distribution system. The service reservoirs will be completed by end 1987 and
the primary system by mid-1988. The Tarsus Water and Sanitation Corporation
will lay secondary and tertiary water mains, with house connections, in
various parts of the town. This involves about 93 km of 65-150 mm diameter
pipes and about 12,000 connections.



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 15
43.      In addition to these capital works, the project will introduce two
programs of work which will be supported by management str'lcture
reorganization and procurement of operation and maintenance equipment: (a)
data base preparation followed by a program for the reduction of unaccounted
for water and (b) identification and registration of illegal connections,
rationalization of shared serviced connections, and replacement of defective
consumption meters. The project would also include the provision of a depot
and workshop and the procurement of vehicles, plant, portable equipment, and
handtools. Technical assistance components will be included in the project to
support the corporation in its leak detection and waste prevention program and
in its overall management efficiency.
44.      Sanitation.  The sewerage system in Tarsus, dating from 1979, is
limited to about 10 percent of the city area and serves about 15 percent of
the population. Discharge of sewage is made directly to the Berdan River or
to drainage channels that ultimately discharge to the river. Tarsus is
divided into two natural drainage districts, the eastern district and the
larger western district. A scheme for the trunk sewerage of Tarsus was
prepared by Iller Bank. This scheme has been modified to create two sewerage
districts instead of the one originally proposed with each district system
provided with its own sewage treatment plant.
45.      During the project period, only the western sewerage system will be
constructed. Because the western district includes an area which cannot
effectively be drained by gravity, the project includes a lift station to
discharge the sewage flow from this area into the western district trunk
sewerage system. In all about 21 km of trunk sewers will be laid from 300 mm
to 1,200 mm in diameter. Treatment will be provided at a plant which will
eventually include anaerobic, facultative, and maturation ponds but during the
project period only the first of these will be constructed. A sewage pumping
station will be provided under the project to raise the influent to the
treatment plant. Secondary and tertiary branch sewers of about 167 km will be
laid together with some 17,000 connections.
46.      There are a number of mahalles in the town which suffer from flooding
(Barbaros, Girne and Fevzi Cackmak). Surface water drainage for these problem
ares will be included in the project. Because of local terrain
characteristics, surface channels will be used in some areas in preference to
pipes. There will be about 6 km of channelling and about 1 km of trunk
surface water drains serving, in all, an area of about 137 ha. The system
will discharge into natural water courses.
47.      Transportation.  Although the project will provide for new works the
main thrust will be towards improved maintenance capability through
organizational and managerial measures and procurement of vehicles and
equipment. The maintenance component is in three parts:
(a) An immediate action program to correct the effects of substandard
routine maintenance in the past. Primary and secondary roads will be
completed within the first two years of the project period. The
tertiary road network would receive attention for the remainder of
the project period.



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Page 15 of 15
(b) A program to improve the overall condition of the network pavement to
a level whereby subsequent continuing annual expenditure on routine
maintenance will offset deterioration of the network. The program
will include provision of road drainage, shaping of road profiles,
cambers and crossfalls, and the restoration of pavement strength.
This work would be completed, for the primary and secondary road
network, over the project implementation period.
(c) An ongoing program of routine maintenance designed to minimize
periodic requirements and improve the transport service. Canal Road,
about 1.6 km, will also be improved. In addition, there would be a
major junction improvement about 0.2 km west of the railway.
48.      Solid Waste Management.  Tarsus has its own solid waste collection
and disposal organization. Collection with the 47 mahalles is made from the
curbside or from communal containers, the latter being in general use in
medium to high rise dwelling area. Disposal is by simple dumping. Vehicle
maintenance is carried out at the municipal workshops. Labor inefficiencies
abound and expenditure levels are high.
49.      The project aims to improve operational efficiency in a number of
ways:
(a) By providing technical assistance, training will be provided to both
management and staff. A hazardous waste officer will be trained.
(b) Tarsus will be divided into three collection districts and collection
routes will be developed leading to the preparation of master
schedules for each collection route.
(c) The wheeled bin will become the principal method employed for refuse
collection. In areas of difficult access, small satellite vehicles
will be used in the operation of a short range transfer system.
(d) Sanitary landfill will be introduced instead of the present method of
dumping.
(e) Workshops, storage parking, and administrative offices of the Solid
Waste Management Department will be centralized at one site.
50.      The vehicles and equipment to be procured through the project are as
follows:
Vehicles                                      No.
1.5 m3 Satellite Vehicles                      3
1.2 m3 Refuse Vehicles                         5
1.6 ma Refuse Vehicles                         .1
Container Cleaning Vehicles                     1
Mechanical Street Sweeper                       1
Containers (Wheeled)
0.12 m3                                       170
0.24 m3                                    1,815
1.1 X3                                       125



- 64 -
AN'NEX 2
Page 1 of 8
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
Detailed cost tables by city and subcomponent are in the project
file.  This annex contains:
Table 1:  Project Components by Year iv Base Prices
Table 2:  Project Components by Year in Current Prict;
Table 3:  Summary Account by Project Component
Table 4:  Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 5:  Summary Accounts by Executing Entity
Table 6:  Project Components by Executing Entity
Table 7:  Foreign Exchange/Local/Taxes by Executing Entity



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 8
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
(TL millon)
Projet CIenntbby Iger
8ao Costs                                        total
In?     low       ige      Is"0      71)1291   i        1293   19001      71    lUss '000)
NI IP8USIUN mu1                            3)1 .4    S08.1    731.1    342.1    2'?.?                              2.912.1   3. 3490,S
SECUSSIP08311                            983.4  4.10I .? 1,91.6  S. 31108 .? 685.2  3.51774  1,320. 2    07.4  IL54.541    38,011.2
MU1110 OVIWLOPNT UIAUJUUI                      46. 3   401.8  1.4)0.4   1,9O10.6  1.283. 3   862.1S   791.0  410.0   7,301.0   9, 70. 0
miulIuaP  ssvIcUS mari a sumuram            S 31,1.0 1 44,33. 0   a, I33. I6.76O.2   4,031.06 4.414.3  1 202. 1   10. 1  41.328. k  60,130.8
01110 13iU1i3tl11  SEVICIs                    250. a   1.720.?  6. 370.4  8. 100.1  S.1SOL.) 2.8M..9  2, 163.7   14.4  33. 218.1  44. 344. 7
U)11C1P81 FlomIC 811 auII*61                  488.8a    441.1    400.4    103.4      it. I    767                      1,641.3   2,180.2
SmA-Total 80011                               71011.7  K8,18. 3  2211.1Sl  23. 529I.   18392.A 11.8M2.4 S.82".,4  720.0  1It,681.1 5   18&21S. 4
11381100115808MA                            1.020.4  1. $14. 3   1,241. 2   1.12    808. OK3   291.1   227.1S  234.0   1.0629.3  1*. 118. 4
o1CffUS 13wP61S1                              I23.8  1,124.8   1,177.0  1.15483   1.142.0   66.2I   20.7 I6.044.?   S.0M.?I
N15513 K1V1L0U31t 301861113                       -                        366.4    441.)   112.8   2730.7  120,.4   I. 661.4   2,108.1I
16MICIP8L 5111161  WO613  517871T11)        1.4)3.0   3,8658.0  1. 628.I  1.711.?   1,206.4  1,0232.    31609   22. 0   ItI. 102.2  14,693.0
07111 5610113111  5113165                     7194.3  2,632.4  2.0)3.6   1,972.7   1,040.6  1,216.7   014.6  100.2  11,014.4  14.6M. 8
1816C1381 FINIUC  M4   )461114                214.8    23. 0     184.6      14.0      30.0    33.0                -     6V1.40   1,161.3
M,-TeteI 78430                                 4.1). S   .5)8.3  L6248.8  IL840.0  4.803,  3,0082  2,129.4  4"1.8  38,540. 0  51,360.6
Ulm81 tiPUISW  MA1                          3,7M.01   4,88.0 X 3,2.7I  2.7I)1.8  3,302.2  2,014.2  1. 112, I      -  22,200.3  23.600.3
eICswiiuu WoSSIN.  3.433.1  4.07ff,1S  2,838.0  4,720.4  3.1280 1,1324.0                                              t.130.7305   25,307.3
1101150106 61411030637 r 914T                     -     170.0    6302    lot 0       742.7   317.3   221.3            3,282.0   4,318.?
NUUIC)P*1 SIIVICIS (1)8713 8 561T811)       1,0$27.8  1,403.0S  4,664.0  3,900.4  2,788.  I, 0.47.1   321. 2      -  20,".S61.1 2,148.7
07N30 138101103 KUVICS                        870.2   2,018.,8   3,841.0   2,3.9.2   2,030.8  1,611.35  108. 444      11,27T87   so.36. 0
11133C138t 7)3636  M3 N101*01T                Ill.$    308.)    201.2       01.1     39.0    33.0                       9)0.0    1, 21&33
Mt-Total 1113S1                                613.)I 17,681L3  1720."1  13,0011.8  13M.S2 10, 112.0  4,124.8           82,0062  100,424.3
S. CIISA
lUAU130015108,1A                           33L60    737.8a    810.3      Si.0             414.8    2o.7 I          2,421. 6   3,234.)
I33CIP41 SWIUVCS ONTO8 138567*7109          181.9   1,667. 3    740.0    640.7    367.8I     01.   364.3             4.23).)t S 1721.19
071113 11161111131 SOIAYCES                   a3.2   148.8    616.7OL     4"0.1    324.0  2So.? I SW)               J. 39. 5    4,700.7
NINICIPAI Flm$001118100K464111101             101.4    204.10    107.3     40.4      31.7    3I.0                       U.5335      i 7)3
sub-Total 61118                                 70.    ,0.0  2.37.8   1,131.2           23,1 S 6).I   635.)          -  10,781.7  14,311.5
11311101110MA1                           4,023.0   1,622.8  1,333.1    685.6  1,131.1  1,2)0.0   812.0         -  11 260.1S  13,012.7
8110W 040843                             222.)I  1.009.) 1,310.8.  1,201.4   1,071.3   62n.6   2)3.4   11.0   6.904.1  0L200.2
NIMSING OIvII.311  383811137                           273.4    344.0    1)8.)    134.0   312.1   IS6.0  1,43.2   2,330.5   3,107.5
11113C1p81 SEIICEI 018710I513110710           671.2  4,733. 0   2,23.1.  3. 921. 8   2,410. 4  1, 306.0   4967I  0W.8   17,001.1S  22,6618.7I
071N11 111613113111 StVICES                   007. 2   2,283.4  I. 754.I    770. 1    044.71 O 808.    048.7   20.2   8. 136.3O  10,801.0
#013161381 FINM  we 0113616614                21. 2    2614.7    170.3      82.4     33.0    37.7         -             6483    1. 128.4
Sub-total 15111U3II                            107.2  11,322.5   6247.8   7,427.4   Lill.7  4,668.  2,5.7.  3)162   4&51)1.1  82,). t 4
MINING13                                      178.0    US 628    266.       38.2      1.3                               SOL1,686    2. II& I
11111 am8 78 M )36619113                    1. 244. 1  1,0Q2&1)    133.1       -                                 - 2,400.3   3,208.4
Su-Vote) Oflo011t 8M  11Gl118I                 1,m62.   1.64n. ?    420.)      06 2       1.3       -        -2,094.3   1,S.326.5
6. PROOdT 110)81113
POOdCT 11V113 £113113 6041T03111 04)7         781.3    801.1    620.1    603.2    553. 8    1)2.1     IM 27.1 221.0   4,423.3   5.6398,5
Mt-Total POOdICT 361181111T                      781.2    661.        I.   80.2    10.8   1)3.1   211.9  221.0   4,423.3   1,0.5.
total 605tl13  C01TS                           2721.7l 72,823.2  57.131.4  12,703.3  44.314.1 32,003.6  1,267. 6 1,762. 7  304.08).?  406, 642.3
""yelal Conti n -PIG                          1,178.0  1,3)2.3   4, 866.6  4,976.)1  4,384.3  2,881.8  1,431.)  161.0  21,220.1S  33,627. 4
price Conti etpmiss                           3. S47.1 20,666.7  40,0170.60 11.162,7  04, 097.3IS 1354.8 JS,7.  3. IL135. ) 204,0)1.8  27. 113.0
tota) PIWItI cotS                              31,10. S8 100,803.2 103,270.1 1)3.334.0 lit 2, 28 4. 435. 2 S2,3. SL4 .0Olt8  624,217.0  487.382.I
ISt$$&*8 3W32S3S23 32122**522:33* 233ss**** 33228*32ssuss 23383  23*9*e 21333:281 SS*233223
lows,s                                        2,02.   80217.)  8,662.0   8M,62.   8,020.  7,201.8  3,741.1  864.)  43,162.1S SI 38.843
Forolp (sches                                 8,370. 2  $8,7712.1 32,320  3.1  W.10.  31,601. 4 2L3,80.2 12,251.0 1,10M.2  173,332.09  1317,181.0
.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . .. .. . .. .. . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
Iarch 20. 100 13: 07



-  6-                                           ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 8
TURKEY
CUJKUROVA URBAN, DEVELOPMEN PROJEC
TabWe 2: PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR IN CURRENT PRICES
Totaft IftlcluIin  Con.ti .     is$s
107  o"8      logo      190       10        1992    1993    1024    lots I    lolal
URBAN EXPANSION AREA                           387.4  1. 388.2  1,337. 8    752.0    555.0                          -  4,420. 4   3. 875.8
GECEIIONDU UP6RtAOING                         8o8.1  8,021. I  90,24.2  13. 757. 7  IS, 818. 0 10. 622. 2   5,507.6  267. 5  63.715I,04  44. 735.5
HOUSING DEVEIOPNENT MOANAGMNT                   56. 7    751. 7   2,5S64. 5   4, 111.4  3.480. 3  2.5*7. 8  2.763.1 1 684. 2  17. ooo.   11. 626. 1
MUNICIPAL SERVICES (WATER 8 SANITATION)      6.408.O0 20.731. 7  14,404.0  14. 324.3  12,220.? 12.84W.3  4, 314.?  711.4  86,031.2  GS. 131.5S
OTHER ENGINEERING SERVICES                     410.511 11, In. 9  11,367.8  17,501. 2  14453. 2  a, 603. 1 7, 362.6  2031.  71, 276. 1 St.,438. 8
MUNICIPAt FINANCE AND PANAGANENT               540.8    613.0    860.5    300.0    177.6a   207.6                   -  2.500 4  2.276. I
Suab-TcotaI ASANA                               6,6020.6  41. "S. 7 40,258.  80.013. 5  46. 703.4 34.867,0 20, @38. I 2.0"8. 7 245. 53. 7 182,088.09
9. TARSUS
URBA  EXPANSION AREA                         2.207. 7  2.443.1I  2.248,3   2,438.6  2. 228,4  1. I8. 0    185.8  037.5S  14. 547. 3  11,694.5
GECEIIONDU UPGRADING                           155.4  1.693. I  2. 137. 6   3, 326.0  2. 018.0  1. 080.7   80So. I     IS1. 112.?  9,430. S
NOUSINIG DEVELOPMENT RANIAGENENT                                            707.3   1,152.1I  1. 734.7  1.308.5  524.1  5,514. 8   3. IIS.1
MIIICIPAI, SERVICES (MATER & SANITATION)     1,727.8  5,482.6   2,013.0  3,173.5  3,103.0  3,022.2  1,016.5   886.4  21.255.9  16.051. 2
OTHER ENGINEERING SERVICES                     803.8  4. 138.0  3,6$18. 2   4. 152.5  2,604.0  3,038.6  3,343.0  455. 0  23,232.0  160593.59
NIIICIPAL FINANCE AMD MAN1AGEMENT              280.6    411.1    304.5    107.1        00.3   105.6                     1.305.?   t 1208.2
Sub-total TARSUS                               5,362.2  14,147. 0  11I-2"1.?  14,505.0  12,277.7 11,356.8  7,403.7 2,002.0  76.067.0  50,351.0
C. NERSIN
URBA  EXPANSION AREA                         4.345.3  7,240.8  6.713. 6   5,871.9  8,&624. 8  7 711.5S 4,102.1         44.62?.0 34,025.2
GECEKONOU UPGRADING                                   5,200.2  7. 389.0  S. 720. 6  12,070.6 10,475.0  4.556. 0        45. 431    It.1 00. 0
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT RANAGENENT                          884.5   1,200.2   1,600. 8   1,942.1 I . 38.6   615. 6      - 7,480.8  5,268.8
WMUICIPAt SERVICES (WATER S SANITATIONI      1,854.1   8,150. 7   8,260.5   8,350. 0   7,035.6  5,712.4  1,1.fi.5      40,542.8  31,504.68
OTHER ENGINEERING SERVICES                     763.5  4. 503.1  S. 661. 0   6.388. I  5,257.3  4,882.0  3,600. 2    -32,245.6  23,544. 5
MUNICIPAL FINANCE AND RANGENENI                193. 0   423.6    4810.3      110.09    00.3   100.6                     1. 412.7   1,263.0
Sub-total RNRSIN                                7,165.09 26,421.4  31,013. 6  28,060.2  35,020.6 20,854.8 14,194.5     - 171,749. 0 128,704. 1
0. CEYHAN
URBAN EXPANSION AREA                          380. 3   1, 113.0   1,552.0    100.8 a         1,247.1    It7.4           4, 414.5S  3,688. 0
MUNICIPAL. SERVICES (ATER 8 SANITATIONI       200.I  2.707.1   1,376.1   1,300.3    940.0   285. 7  1, 228.8        -  8.,146.7  6,482.4
OTHER ENGINEERING SERVICES                      93. 6  2.212. S   1. 101. 3    085. I    854.0   764. 2   863. 6        6, 07 3. 3  5.428. 2
MUNICIPAL FINANCE AND NANAGENET                114.1    280,6    178.0       06. 0     87.3    10.5.                      802. 4    751. 4
S5*-Total CETHA                                   707. 0   6,313.3   4,308.0  2.562. 2   1,1. 2.2  2,422.5  2,163.6 8     20, 457.0  16.350.0
E. ISRENOERUN
URBAN EIPANSION MIA                          4,6$40.7  2,807.2   2,462.1   1,826.09  2,875.2  3,645. 2  2,814.7     - 21, 083.0  16,084.6
GECEKONIIU UPGRADING                           282. 7  2,883.0  2,452. 0  2, 707. 6  2. 738.8  2.460.1   1 32, 1  208.7  14, 464. 2  10, 750. 6
HOUSING DEVELOPMNT IIANAGNE.T                      -    420.8    623.4  1. 117. 4   1, 364.5S   930.4   604, 7  582.6  5,742.5  3, 713.5
MUNICIPAL SERVICES (WATERI 8 SAniTIaTION       798, 0   6,9013.2  5.,761.0  8,&363. 7  6, 101.4  4. 122.5  1.65M. 7  387.4  34,275.8  25,0"8. 0
OTHER ENGINEERING SERVICES                   I. 021. 2  3,358,0  3, 142.4   1,054.5   2,257.5  2,643.8  1,808.5  104. 31I. 179.1I 12, 342. 6
MUNICIPAL FINANCE AND PMANAGEENT               288.1    38. 1     280.9    122.4       00.3   102.1                     1, 281.02  1,164.0
Sub-Total ISNENDRNO                            7,03?.17  16,850.8  14, 722.1 71. 704. 6  15, 617. 6 13,013.1I 7,7092.6 1, 281. I 03, 028.3  70. 042.4
F. NATIONAL AND REGIONAL
TRAINING                                      658.6    a6l.5S    471.8      188.7       3. 0                        -  2,183.6  2.103. 6
ItLERt B=A  TA AND EOUIPMENT                 1,3M..2   1,408.5    220.4                            .                -  3,035. 0   3,282.6
Subtotal NATIONAL AND REGIONAL                 2,057.86  2,267.0     701.2 I   1le. 7      3. 0                            5.218.6  5, 483. 4
C. PRO.JECT MANAGEMENT
PROJECT REVIEW IMPLEM. MONITORING UNIT        2000.5  1, 107. 2   1,046.0   1,210, 7   1,314. 3  1,420.0   008.6  8381. I  8,645.4  6. 462.09
Sub-total PROJECT NAAGEHENT                      2000.5S  1, 107.2   1,040.0   1, 210.7   1,314. 3  1, 420.9    98.8  838S. I  86445.4   6, 462 ~
total PROJECT COSTS                             31,0. 8 108, 803. 2 103, 270.7 113. 334.0 112.835 8 94. 435. 2 52,508. 4 7, 078. 8 624.211 0 407.:   7
,snz.*xs sgz:zzzR*  asts::::: :2:2:521* 2.tguts,2   182: S E*8*23zS3 28832   238*tS*s4 lxtz::S.:
.t987      3: 0-   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -I - - -



- 67-                                                                       ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPNMT PROJECT
Table 3: SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY PROJECT COMPONENT
(TL million)
. ...................................................... .................................  ... ............................................................. ..
on"683                IMOSING      $1914111Is      Ottef1    lUlCIP3*1         Ono63                  NaUst"    SI3lCS           OI4R       tl4CIPI.l
t7PNSl  it     um Ctt"t        M  Dtt_t  TEt a   EttU    ElttEU    fltm       _   gavais5cif ZBOu t DE%tttml   mile It  ttUlttititi   *ltfttC£  as
Utt 1I463 6*1130449  /tM     t31 S1i4t4*1E0     1 )M11   4                              0PGRADIN       v iUlt  S3t tU100             St1V3CES 1E11 4 t0 tl
839*  9209*0436 38448610234  58341441094   SIUVICIS    *U84... S4         SS1*    44 .v883  uah. nw ..SS.* * 3409..  SS  IcS.....*1134
,ftt#*e.. *****s*s .u*se@satsst  *s..,sS.,*s  *S*S*S$s*5S  *st**ttt*S#   W*h*SlWh  **SSSSSSS **tSS*hSt*t *$S)$%s-X ztttStt *Tt,*S ttt**t trt 
1. 4INf31151 coSts
.......... .......... 
A. 1830t*8I0I4*   1. si6.4                                         *      422L .        3.2)2.3              -       t.8        t49.¢ 0                      It9        1.2)68a
8. Cl4lt  0RK5                     t. I111.4  21.681.  S.     9 41.0     13.Ofl.9    22.02.0                 -     s.i).t   4.28.8           068.2       2.679.t 7I 389. I
C. Pins No 1)T44I4                   143.0   1. 32,           431.6    S&6. 21.S        1,41.I              -       483.0       218.6          39.       2.22.6             ?-7.2
o. 1E01putl4 t                     t.0.S   2,)?) *            394 3       D.C92.4       t7t29.1         149.1       683.8       421.4          33.6      2.210.0       t 50t 5          Is0  I
. P9U41SS1Ilt Stt1lCts               144.2   2.015.S          24). )      3.08. 4       1     9140                  281.2       422.2         tn. 4         864.6         643.0
t104ICM       assII t                1*339                                                        I. 2.2              -          *8.4                                 2)2 6         6se.3
IL 012831*0-    .                                                  .             .             .             .           ..                     .
I). 11U03tS3t491                          -             -                                                    .           -           - '          
total I3t154t41t3  COSTS              2.t12.1 2t8,.41 .9        202. a    45.2t.U      31 5.5  1  1*641.9             t. 1.t S     044.?  I1.U88  4    It. 102.2          11,014.4          71. 0
total 6811t1l)   COStS                 2.12.)  28,141.9          *.e"S.0    45.38a. 4    3 t2      S .     .84).9      7.626.2   6,044. 1        .884.4      44,102.2      11,014.4         St e
9.hcaI CnI.et_gt                      278.0   2. 84tf,i         143.9      o.04.         2, 9". e.0                   100.6      1     94      223.5         92t.9         901.7 
Pvtce Cont      i..4o.              4,632.3  32,322. 6       S.s9s.I       1.5191.3    n1.ot7.s          s1.s1     6220.4   6,41.4           3.409.9      9.494.8       11.310.0         434.2
......             ...                                   ...........    ....I....     .........    ...........    ............. ...........    ............................................................ ... 
total P86tt1C   COStS                  4.4 4  63,7i1.           4      aI909.6  80. I2 t1          2t109 .4    14,47.2  4I, 112.                S.1514.8     I4.255.9      23.232.0       4,305.2
0.......! .ls  * S .. SS*a *s*   t%** S$  41 % s eaS%t Sttst.tttst  *t4t$$s"t                                 St**....$$w$st   l-$S.  *.*#ttt ......I7t
I,n"                                  38.8 1S.   S22.0       14I.,0        6,438. 3      3,42. 2         300.4     4, 406.9  14 ,I. S          Mt.        I  .028,      4,422.7         IS? 2
lore)p  Incho""                     1S723.5   14.871t        3, 98t1.0    238,?it       I46283.3       t e019.1     21,25.9 I 2. M.2  I      15.5 316.1S  s.9. a          46t.5         s39.6
........................... ................................................... ......... .......... ........... ................ ..........................................................................
.. . . . . . . . . .. . . . .    . .  . . .    .. .. . .. .. . ..    .. .   I. . . . . . . ..........       ... .. .    . ..
44gr.h ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      " 28  498  t42                                           -      -*   -0*1   *
dWtm                   1011tsila  s   tnlCtS        oltit      llifttlC        Lowt                   tSIIIC S)182S                OftEtl 41418PAL
EXPANSION 0t1103t     9t111OttEIII  438419 8 MAV 4Na436 t        4t)3l 8 f Il * AND  Elt8450#  OtCtt_  OIViOPt)13T   UUttiE  I   E1304UEtRIIG I fiNSCE A
ARIA,   WOWING "lut4etiEf   S Iit4tll                 SERVICES   IlI_ttt        AREA    u"UDING lAUttt            soliAlitile      SERVtICES    MAMMAwt
= ...............
A. 1too8ls       mi4             2,'4144       68.               -         491.0        271. 6                     3.0                                    126.7          61.4
R. ,Itn   Ne                    I.s On. 0Vso 1,88.7.2     2.229.1    I0.821.0    t1.08.8                   -        4.             *                     .s6. I      2. 22.:
e.          o                                  44 1.521  144.  407.9    4,114.          8n6                        483.8                                  413.4         49 1
L. 98 5SSI4        t                   S 2t2e.    1,32.1     70t2.0     4. V1.2       2 ,t1160        4. 0         41--                                 1.40219.S       946.4         439.
7. 4184i9o)8    s 8u9149           841.2    1.4)0.9         243.2       4t 439.S1       8l.O                        14                                    3 .  249 1     26.0
O    alu         Ila                                                     442.4         2)s1.8        141.0                                               31.41         6t.4         4004A
tt ttttelpsl
3,  flttO45uIPI                ......... .........  ........... ........... ........... ....               .  ......... .......... ........... ........... ..........  ..........
total $Mill5     t COlStS          St 20a.9   49,139.1S      33. 0        20,.864.1      t.15    t I     n0.0       2,421.8                                4.29)         3,-2211  19 .s
°        s#1 4 toatir."CW          22.20e9  9 19. 2.          3.282,8      2,8t8. S1     IS. i       e.1  9400    2,421.8              *                   4.2*91.       31.1S". S       s       S
13.y,Ital         5                :741.   1 4.992.) 1        444.2       1.474t8.4      ,3 8                       20.?                                   343.8         320.0
*Pite Com     _ ut               20 ,41. 3  23.701          2,793. I     8, Ift. 4    t89.2  193       102.7    1.81L3                                   3,1S4.0      S22.8 .22.9
. ... ............ .......... .........  .........    ...........    ...........     ...........    ....................  .........    ..................... .............................................................  .................
total 90l        t  sts             44821.0  41.43).1          7,40.     A,142.6S    32.241.s            1.442.1    4.414.             -                   4, 446L?      6.9q73.3        88  4
finn. ,*.Ss.i..t ..t.,fl.t.i f.l$tn.iiSS  SiSSSS*S fttSSSSSt-*98tS.4  *.*fl,9*3                t tS       *tf.lWtt  flSSSttfl *SSt...S*.t *tStS...S.W
fee                                ,348.0    ,1 1". 0         6814       s.289.?       t. Stf46A        487.4       497.4           *                      87.0          419 7         m72 2
7w. p 1est4.p                    I0,8M   0  40, 429.3       ,104.2      42,118.4       8.88a8           119.2  I4.003.                                   2, 02t   45    . 49 4         714 0
............... ... .. .... ... .. . .. . ... . .. . .. . .. ... . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . ... . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .
.................................................. _ TOU                                      we   _aa         _ M
PIOICtt
154tt cEtB                                  ...................ica
_n                     lattlSlC     SRVIClES        cttlft     NUItlClSt                 lItzl $M       UtYtEIL                 cantI ..'1
EXAlmSsfs  ctetlo         oEntepFtl  (tiet a   EatlelFtl            tlllllllt No               101111     NONttll K                 ............
Itto    UttOIIIG *ttUMttl  salttionle            StTtctES        IlmUlSE*l    lWtatleso  teiiFtsttsEt     lNitti     totalF       I    a
......................SS                                                                                                          S*....  I. S .%   ..  .
.3843.3881 636 0, 2640 3*Ista 0                                                                                                      a        a 
II) tnit NM                       S.   - I5S. Xt. S         1. So. *     1 4    a 01 1                                                                      M.8a 4119 M- - 4t1. 11.    .  20. Coa, oS
t  motst anD #$Itll               1118 .41      Its.$         Its.s   1      .1 7 8t.1                      -4S1  *S.1    *    36 3410430
e. tQpqw                            813.§8     4V683    846 9            L8e9.1 on,    t415       33 6in3 s         144.3      1It4.2 90.8  41  4tl.1,  *.)            I    81 .
t 4w71 SS1141ttS                    33145        ea               a      1.43.4           3                                            -          2. I  19on2    o.e           oo
8. 1839 884 ns110                 283.            2.                        I2.           48tI8.2.   1.    .i                     o              s  S.20420.0S   0.0           0 0
4t. notsS4 g       nf2t-81.                                                                Ist         u . .n                      e2             too.    1e.15.   to.e        o e
it  CittI30w s                           -           *       .8              84               -             - *  *                     *                              .o    o o0
ttl9. $11I1IlIVI?1Mt$                   108.6 1 246.9                                  1 9  3.4.  41,                                                      3     4 4ea     QS.  3   .    8.8 3, S   35 n
tot. Matsui COST                         872.6        8488        4.18        2.809          ,96.2M          411.3     144t4.       24,4              80.428.9  40,4 .t    8.36  ,872203
1. 4069S436a i9v45                   233.9      2864           412.6      4,434.4         284.4                                        .      2,268.IM   4992.2a     0.0       0.0
1.ce C110181        e              *."8 Sl 8.  .e             . It.S.        III&          2 t411."     480         4    .).       802.4       4. 10.8   02. 2t .  0.0 2        0.014.9
101411 0M*V      O-TS                21.e1t.0    4t40t.t        at42n        34.2M                 - 16. 179. 1  111.9   2. Itlt     -.on o        ,4w    M211.9   0.09             0. 4
7o4*4 )s3W14      coiii  44,282.1    1004.?  3.3)0.6  41,804.1  e.431  848.3      4.5818         t 2,466.3    4,423.9 304.98).?    6.2 .1Ss ; t ,
4 0     01 6017                   24,083.0   44,484.3        1,42.1.1 24  1, 22 4  79.8 sk*S           4.8n49.   .     2,482.6    M..          184. OKt    49.I427.9    . 9  7 .911 .
?wo)p U*410p                       4T40.2       3.6          4,284.4      42. 83.4 1    9.04.6            44 2         88K8      2,931.?       4.2. 14479.32.9        1   15.  43.29 9
.............................. ................................................. ...................................... .................................
fTf a Om93t l:O



TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: SUMMIARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
it  i I I i                                       fuss ' 001
8 Total                                          2 total
2 Foreign  Base                                  I Foreign  Base
tocRl    Foreign   lot#   tchang.  Costs    local   foreign  totol    Exchange   Costs
1. INVESIWNI COSTS
A. IAND aCQIISItIOn          20. I50.         - 20 150. 0          -       7   26.866.7         - 26.6C6.7          -       7
B. Clltl ImS                I338443.2  40.210.6 116t.6S3.8       23       59  184.598.9  53.614.2 236.20s. 1       23      59
C. PIPES AND Fl11i3GS        16,966.8  19.S24.7  36.49 1.5       54       12  22.622.4  26.032.9  48.655. 4        54      12
0 t[IPIIEUT                  19. 400. 3  21. 041. 4  40.441. ?    S2      3   25. 861. 0  28. OSS. 3  S3.922. 3    52      13
E. PROIESSIOI*  SERVICES     14. tif.7  S. S. S  19.382.2        29        I   16.31S.    .6827.4  26.643. 0       '        7
f. ItCINNICAt ASSISIAICE      4 98. S   3. 729.0   8. 027. 5     46        J  5.731.3   4,972.0  10.703. 3        4b       3
G. OVERHEADS                    SS9.3     147.0   1. 106.3        13       0    1.279.@0    198. 0   1.415. 1      13       0
N. FtIIoSIPS                     16. 7    112.0      38. I       87        0       22.3     141.3     171.6        St       0
Total B5SMl at COSIS            214. 346   903. 5. 3 304,981.7       30      100 285.  5. 3 120. 4. 0 406. 642. 3      30    0OO
Physical Continsc log         10.344.3   S. B?S 3  25. 220. S     2?        6   24. 4S. 0   9.316.3  33.627.4       27       S
Price Coetiimencies          212.194.3  81.821.3 2".0IS.S          20      96   19.S43.3  ?7.5.6  27. 113.0         28      *t
- - -  ,- ---  -- -- -----  -- - - ----  -- --  ----  --  ---- -   -- -- ----  ------   - ---- --------- --    - ----
Total PROEWCT COStS             444. 86S. 0 39. 332. 9 624. 217.9    29      205  329. 797. 6 133. SS6. 0 467. 382. 7  29     IIS
tS::S:tS5~~~~~~  2:::::. :::S:  2--:   ::_    ::S:   :_::   :5::   ::::   :::
Norch 26. 1987  13: 08
OQ[z
DtJ
X
0:
oh
Co



TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMfENT PROJECT
Table 5: SUMMAARY ACCOUNTS BY EXECUTING ENTITY
(US$ million)
uwi i*   un,rn6m  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Cens sm,wslsuO                               taeOo              cm         octc tasasa        nss   wil   @34n346?           aug         flo
I    ~~~in9  3 ~~~~~uu    U  ~~~~  U ~~~rn    S  ~~~~u.    U  ~~~~  I  ~~~ s. .......   ......         ....... ... ....                  ~             . ....   .....       9.......
..5s *5~0   l5.CS-t5                                                                                                         ttteS*Wt  Sat 1.8,4*5 I04*  *8*.1.I1 *01
*c441511S00  1.0094216  3326211       51261  )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*    -         - 41.13,    -a                                      .            .             - MD11431   10                  17.4092'9.01 ,G.
:I,98in1                 w.,gis~~~~~~~~~~~~$ 112*.6e.' sso  it. as,e  as   -                       .30      9    i4,S          233         1 6.044    .    IS  6 464M2 I  202. 431U1  OSUSO                        S 500.490  1.204 0
2.00     1 4   6.954 0I   ML  4  .1 at0                                  2.45         1I                                                                         14 --.4618  930t  2,.21-t     22'. we  2.009I
40*43.5          .           020~~~~~~~~~11S      its" 4a11 I   nll,3  1 *2) 2 43)  013. 292 a    0    so  #9      1.6)4 4 4    4,20324  an4   3.,3)9   2 I6   6  90 00       I."$49020   00,2   of1   326 i      2&830   S. no 
MISSION venal1                         402 I   2 J.  31m0 21       It11 4.4321                 8 .24111) $s     in I   0 4  1. to4  1 1      I.%91 I S        00on0  3      i  0  14      on 1124  91,3600061146                  341 so an4aI692Stw
erncaca"slim"u                  -                -      0 6.mIs       mu ISt  1a.10ai Sl 8.ai*  20                                                                                                       so    . .- - 9 0  2 4    S. on a  4.10 Sf  9.0020
0933.                                                                                            2330.                                                                                                 916 0            4350       5.3509     Om 0
*993439%  -                         .              -         0019400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  .                                               .9100                                             01140        411      *2,
9.9W04 1.9   10.416 G   4 0  3 1.69  146   3 A023.1  3.1 2S.2.6  0 6    M1.3  25I       7 11210 G 9?  2&.434 2)   24.1 ....2..    *....6...4...........6 S     2  1~ of9S 0 4   99.030 S2a4  402.241 MS   MI.2  0.01    046
t ..1  ... ......... ...  ...........I.....    . .. ..   ..  .  ...I.....-.....  ........  ..   ...  .......  .....        ..    ....    ..........
...2.           . ..1.  . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . ..2- - -- -  . . . ..0. . . .   . . .
9-99



Go
. . .*n                                                *a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......   ..  ....  ...    ...........   ..  .........4.
... ...  ... . . ..... ... ...  ..... .... .............-                                                                             .          ... ... ........                                                        a.nw
a  ecu     .me      cc  cm~~~ ~~iil      .      --   .-.................... ..!  .    ...  .....    ........ .                       ....... ..-.....  ..... .    .... ...... ...u.
"aa'  Iu M          uc        mce    c    ..            tce    cIc                & e s          c r-                         I                          cuesTois  ..   . *~-                   :-..... e-s
*ue  g5,,   ... ....   ...    ...    . .. . . .. ..... .......  . . ..........                    .........                                           ... .....                      .......  ...u.....
emi"  Sm1 Sm.    7-                                     -.                        -    -                                                                             m cirn-                  I                          "*aw" M   M %MSm"
*W    *ct           *s*t*p                                                                           .       --                         -             15*5                                                     iIimSila,hSnl
Se      cI.It1tT     on,-    cc  ewe's   cc  ue                      i   55      SS   8Ct        SUaS                           r.*                                xeacms                                                      Zmmm
*   0      *.  S,        ***nm    ,**, *    .s*                         t    soev-su-.                                                                                                                                               "amm8 - -. -      54 ~ V   * ~ *  51 * c
cues   cusp  *te.i~~s  ci Mc,e     I a4.0 *     C IW        i   OVW       6i  cIte        * S   W    0-c   su       -    -                  soa cue.1   ci.                                                                 GM"eec
~~,  .~~~.  .~~    .-.    **~ ~.    ...   ......     ....... .. ...    . ...      .. . ... ..    .............       ....... ...    ...      .. .  .........min.........
Cm    cues  ~~~~icc    cc .~~ In  a   -a atIi mS*- I*8   dui      I'm   ova                                                                                                            4mucaM   suinmacueta
$am11  mt %M%           5 Su  S   #V0~    8  u-    cc  cv . cc             o     ;.-c   'O comic c ,vsm'r  t#   cm                                  so   gal    em  ses                i-awn ccsin                                           O
......s   .............                               ....        ...e-..   ..                .                                                    .              r   y  . . ..........    .   . ...mas--m
*SS&c  smltal     a la's   ccS  e mW    - ..S'ne                                                                                                                                                                         wm.umee.
gal                18ai   cu I   su%   s'  SiR       . -      *   icc M           SKI a   ac  ;MM.,                                                    -soOVImm                                                                mu.  innsof
iSolaSA em          M'cs    a cc  Sea-cc  ITem            eisa   cM cSc   5V                                                                                     0*pc aec.-  . - -at ue c W ue- Mwl   les-    e   ca'       sem         in
*  .MT  cussi    cle            a. cs          .com.up'"om Ic-c`0cssel    a*  815.   is  ca                     us *5          .                  in~ewac                                  m-        c
ccc.%   Msue       sin      AcaS aimsVs  O   .V'                   e ..        a           w         . Mt   9          I0t       U.                                o        .u t    O            .u    M                            laws
ccin  si  aWe.   a.  casm   -   .                                                                                                   .         cuesiam   .    - ---.------  .........---- ------...S.........................h---------c....m......c..m....
cmt  cm's  cues    cc  scum~~~.  ...........a.-.... ...... .... ........                                                                                 :10                                         mcs"noorn" M Swma        me
SamS    .4114'6      W-a,         *-       ctin                     c c  oa,                                                                                        "ISems-  ne s a   m-a                                $"$ m *ma ma"
ga's  am-         cus       c     us sem                cce t            we C          1i        a     'sI M'S   I              .      .   -ftsIN-Sm              ca so's  VW        cm-c    sit"HeSimn ncsina
cu   teit's     NOT s   ow  6         **v  u 5 O   '   -      Si5            5      W'        i: aeii   Ss el-ia. -                            sa   a-sp st   M'sm -i     ct
.10 6f9                11   5SIo$             0"                  g    R0V'            VI       01IM                                                                                                  nV                           iw   M
cm  cue    sect  cc imac    -.om,m.', -                                                                                               . .                 auinueineme~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sn4 
.me   cm-as   s~~ea-ta   ,    cue"-ic     4w                                         40 t           llaOs 4V                                    U0611 S.up0 em-se                          .                                        4"nmi7.4
cues  sins~.                                .....        ----        ... .          ......        ---- C..t.... tue.s                     a...        .......                       .........    ......w
ClU    .01 n  's7 sues      cc  c I -t   ""  :                   ~ces                           .sacms                                                            c.as.. .MOM"                                                  WsmUM em.=
cues  4M- Iues        n'"   58$ 5U0 0asicess   e    u'                                           siom                                   - .         a              s     m..
-c           i ~          j        ma in  .$0  g                    s    0WMes  SS   a t                     a    c S11,"   S4m te   a               a                      -4,8   0$11   M                                              Wm-
eactAI   uSi "mum           twcam   au  intat    I.  P*tUW?   a  IwA          a n  55   a         5s   mntim S Ia    a    "low       smaWm"       a     WA,    SVm%
pss      o     USA  umst   -W"304                             m411           n$Q                 umastm                       mom           m  a"m
AUB SLM2OdwOO LO33O'ad -9 GwiqL
103MI'd J1UWdO'JA3G MVm1VAUIXl



:; D
Sz fd
W:s  .9  g q3aq
38:3t:8:: :::::2::: :z::::::5 :::23::s: JS:as:::::: gas.:::: :s:.::t:S. 8::t ::2:::g :::::::g::t ug:.:::::: 3:tins:a :::::85:::: 3::3:::
5SWS    *,u IH-I                £ -ms    *116-t         ts1t*s  O             **I.        £15            tuil         rsKt t-*I t1.*          -                         "a,  111
£ *sw   siss    "Nasc  s  ;""a ass vuzn'ssxs  *SgSaS*  *Svxa*ss  sualsa   xsosgsxvs    zvz,vs,1     *s.Rwes   2*2uacsia *ases8*b    .                            w3S  s'  ol i
t ' *'C   9C"9  OW-§ 11 W   gSt  O'i g    G'MIg 9 l  "-S t  9'S1                            '            O'i  CIn    9      ut 0 "a's t    0,9 1141   (atel 131            11
0 WSWS's      M I 6    6   015   lawI   006D     3 IO*I3 ut-CC It                l-ts     6n 9U                       19 19 1 S 81t  C  K'S   -                      , *J I
:::::z  : :2::s::_ c    h:::: ::   28:8:8::  3s28s::  r 3  8:ss  :3:3:s:      3:: :       :22S3s8        :::ss::: 332s 3ss 3ss 2s33382:    3ss3as
10101   S111512  M8IND32    flm            (311311   S_S         SiW        in  hI1111I  IlWSAVSSy   vSollUi lUdIl3IU          AdND3        WSm
nNMAU      #3LU      sIlill 411231J3313                _= ur 1  smleasm                     IugwiIwiS              IUIUdilAU  IUSUK
01w  *5W                                                 SflltWI3I          ll1WN                  _fW         1*11
ssn)
XIII   ~        ~       ~        (UTI! $NIf1l) -SvDn Ksd: 
AJUN3H 9NI1f1O3 AUl S3VJJ'V307M/3NVH3X3 N!OI"IOa :1 a'"'J
13O3MVd INWOrI3AG N n UVAOwfnXfD
A3Xldfll



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of I
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PRQJECT
SUMMARY OF ARRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTING FINANCE AND COST RECOVERY
Implementing                            Cost Recovery
QTDnent                                     Agency          Finance Sourceg      _-t4an il sL_
1. KJNICIPAL
A. Urban Expansion Areas
1 . Lad                              M                   DSF                  Land Price
2. On-Site Facilities
(1) Site preparation             HUDC                IB, We. 1            Land Price
(0i) Water & Sanitation           HUoC                Is. We. M            Land Price
(iii) Roads, footpaths             HUDC                I8, We, M            Land Price
drainage
(iv) Fire stations.               M                  "I Is                 M. Taxes
community bldgs.
3. Off-Site Infrastrutture
(a) Water and Sanitation            WSD                 I8, WB, M            Land Price. T/C
(b) Roads                           M                   TB, Wh, M            Land Price. M. Taxes
4. Government Facilities
(Schools, health, police)       SPA                G                     G. Budget
S. National Utilities
(a) Telecommmunications              PTT                PTT, G               T/C
(b) Electricity                      TEK                TEK, G               T/C
B. Ungrading and Nousing Management
1. Water. Sanitation - Networks      WSO                ", I,. WB             T/C
- Tertiaries                      WSD                  , I8. WeB           I. Levy, L.C.
2. Roads, Sidewalks - Networks        H                  "I Ie. We            M. Tax
- Tertiaries                      H                   "I IB, We            I. Levy. L.C.,
M. Tax
3. Government Facilities, National
Utilities                          as for Urban Expansion Areas
C. Municipal Enaineering
1. Water and Sanitation              WSD                 M, IB, WB            T/C. I. Levy
2. Solid Waste                        H                  M, IS, WB            M. Taxes,
3. Drainage                           M                  M, I, WB eM. Taxes
4. Roads                              M                  M. I8, Ws            M. Taxes, I. Levy
D. Municipal Finance and Management    IB, M                M, Ie. W8             B. M. Taxes
II.   NATIQNAL AND REGIgNAL
1. Training                           CMTA               M4. l. W1            M. Taxes/G. Budget
2. Iller Bank                         to                 I8, WB               IB Income
1I1.  PROJECT MANAGEMENI
1. PRIMU                              Is                 Ie. WB               IB Incone
Legenj:  CMTA - Cukurova Municipalities Training Association. DSF - Development Support Fund, G
- Government, HUOC - Housing and Urban Oevelopment Corporations, IB - tller Bank. I. Levy -
Improvement Levy, L.C. - Legalization Charges, M - Municipalities, 1. Taxes - Municipal taxes,
PTT - Posts and Telecommunications Authority. SAP - Special Provincial Administration, TEK.-
Turkey Electricity Authority, T/C - Tariffs and Charges. WSO - Municipal Water and Sanitation
Department.



ANNEX 4
-73 -                    Page 1 of 16
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE/ACTION PLAN
A. PfoJect Launch Workshop                                      June 15-19, 1987
Municipal Actions
B.  Intitutina Compoents
1.   Appointment of Project Coordinators
Adana                                            May 31, 1987
Mersin                                           May 31, 1987
Tarsus                                           May 31, 1987
Ceyhan                                           May 31, 1987
Iskenderun                                       Done
2.   Finalization of draft RFPs (Requests for Pro-
posals, inwluding Terms of Reference, Shortlists,
and proposed Budgets) for institutional technical
assistance                                             June 15, 1987
3.   Approval of HUDC Policy Statements
(Mersin, Tarsus, Iskenderun)                           June 15, 1987
4.   Establishment of project entities and appointment  (Before award of
of directors                                           any contracts for
those entities)
C. Financial Manement Improvement for Municipalities and Water and Sanitation
Co!rpori OD8
1. Immediate Actions
(a) Establishment of financial management
committee in each municipality                June 1987
(b) Appointment of Technical Assistance
Finalization of Draft Request for
Proposals (RFP) (incl. decision on
joint procurement if desired)                  April 30, 1987
PRIMU/Bank review, Issue RFPs                    May 21, 1987
Proposals received                               June 30, 1987
Evaluation completed & negotiation of
draft contract                                 July 31, 1987
PRIMU/Bank review of draft contract              August 21, 1987
Award of contract                                August 31, 1987



ANNEX 4
- 74 -                   Page 2 of 16
(c) Submission by each WSD, Municipality
and HUDC to PRIMU of its Three Year
Finance and Investment Plan 1988-1991,
including record of actual receipts
and expenditures for 1986 and revised
estimates for 1987, and draft annual
action plan                                     September 30, 1987
2.       During project implementation, a program to improve financial
management, supported by technical assistance shall be undertaken. The
process of improvement will be managed by a small management committee to be
established within each municipality with the following attributes:
-    chairman to be the Chief Financial Officer (or an individual with
equivalent qualifications pending appointment of the Chief Financial
Officer);
-    powers of the committee to include the right to require departments
to provide such additional information as is needed by the new
accounting systems; and to take any necessary actions to avoid a
delay in implementing the new systems;
-    dutiec of the committee to include setting priorities within the work
program to achieve each year's output as defined below, identifying
resource requirements to achieve each year's output and obtaining the
agreement of the Mayor (and the Assembly) to the provision of these
resources, and regular reporting of implementation progress compared
with plans.
3.       The improvements to be sought have been divided into two phases,
respectively 1987 and 1988, and 1989-90.
(a) PHASE I
Improvements by end 1987
-    separate accounts for municipality and water and sanitation
departments (WSDs) (ASKI in Adana);
-    separation of capital and revenue transactions;
-    capital accounts, in detail and in total (including allocation from
force account);
-    preparation of first three year rolling capital plan, by program and
scheme, and an outline multiyear financial plan (by September 30,
1987);
-    accounting statements and reporting as required by the World Bank;
-    accounting for all loans and debt service;
-    cash flow forecasting, monitoring and management procedures;
-    basic service costing by cost centre;
-    allocation of service income to cost centres;
-    a budget reflecting the form of the accounts;



ANNEX 4
- 75 -                  Page 3 of 16
-    an action plan for improved "own revenues" income generation to be
executed in 1988;
-    income collection systems improvements and monitoring procedures (WSD
essential, other services important);
-    a formal pricing policy review mechanism (WSD essential, other
services important);
-    management reporting/budgetary control (on an exception basis);
-    full year-end financial statements (WSD only) (i.e., income
statement, balance sheet, and sources and'applications of funds);
-    partial year-end financial statements (municipality) (i.e., capital
and current account, loans account, limited balance sheet items);
-    operational manuals for enhanced financial systems;
-    on-the-job training program;
-    an amended and approved work program.
Improvements by End 1988
-    costing systems including, as appropriate, stores accounting, vehicle
costing, force account costing;
-    allocation of debt service to cost centres (WSD in 1987);
-    job costing systems;
-- accrual accounting;
-    income collection system improvements and monitoring procedures (all
other services);
-    formal pricing policy review mechan4sm (all other services);
-    revised and more detailed multiyear financial plan;
=    development, trial testing and implementation of simplified financial
administration procedures;
=    policy and performance based annual budget;
=    project appraisal techniques;
-    monitoring of capital schemes (pre and post contract award);
-    introduction of codified financial regulations;
=    preparation of a computer development strategy;
-    full year-end balarce sheets (municipalities);
-    operational manuals for all financial systems;
-    formal inservice training staff upgrading program; and
-    revised and approved work program.
(b) PHASE II
The municipal authorities of Adana and Mersin will be expected to
adopt the improvements as described. Other municipalities may choose to do
so, or may choose instead to consolidate Phase I improvements.
Improvements by End 1989
-    full costing system including cost allocation of central departments;
-    accounting for asset use (depreciation/renewals funds) (WSD 1987);
-    development of renewals fund and other-fund accounting techniques as
appropriate;
-    development of internal audit (or, in the case of Tarsus and Ceyhan,
access to internal audit services) including:



ANNEX 4
- 76 -                        Page 4 of 16
. audit program,
. audit manuals,
. internal control questionnaires,
. compliance audit, systems audit and value for money audit
techniques.
-    development of performance indicators (by service);
-    definition of user requirements and systems specifications for
implementation of priority computer systems;
-    development of financial modelling techniques, and
-    revised and approved work program.
Improvements by End 1990
-    allowance for the effects of inflation upon assets and depreciation;
-    development of contract audit and computer audit capabilities (in at
least one authority);
-    implementation of priority computerized financial systemR; and
-    revised and approved work program.
D. EngineerhM and Physical Components
The major initial steps to be undertaken for these components
comprise:
(a)  the appointment of principal design and supervision consultants to
handle detail designs of those works for which only preliminary
investigations are available, to assist with preparation of bidding
documents, bid evaluation, and to undertake supervision of
contractors: see Tables I (a) to (e.)
(b)  tendering of Initial Contracts for which detail designs are underway:
see Tables 2 (a) to (e).
Tables 3 (a) to (e) set out the forecast implementation timetables
for physical components in each project city.
E. National and Regional Actions
1. Cukurova Municipalities Training Association
Formal Establishment of CMTA                     Done
Appointment of CMTA Director                     June 30, 1987
Issue RFP for Training Implementation
Unit                                          September 30, 1987
Appointment of TIU                               March 31, 1988
Review of Scale and Scope of
Permanent Training Center                     December 31, 1992
2. Project Review, Implementation, and Monitoring Unit
(a) Staffing
Appoint Director                                 Done
Appoint Deputy Director, senior engineer,
senior financial analyst, senior accountant    September 30, 1987
Appoint remainder of professional staff          December 31, 1987



ANNEX 4
- 77 -                         Page 5 of 16
(b) Technical Assistance
Draft RFP for Bank review                              May 1, 1987
Bank review and RFP issued                             May 22, 1987
Proposals received                                     June 30, 1987
Evaluation and negotiation of draft
contract                                             July 31, 1987
Bank review                                            August 20, 1987
Award (& appointment of TA)                            September 30, 1987
Financial Analyst and Senior
Engineer in post                                     September 30, 1987
Other Technical Assistance personnel in post           December 31, 1987
3. Technical Assistance to Iller Bank
Decision on Iller Bank's future role and functions  December 31, 1987
Iller Bank to prepare draft REP                        December 31, 1987
Bank review & Request for proposals issued             January 31, 1988
Proposals Received                                     March 15, 1988
Evaluation and draft contract negotiated               April 15, 1988
Bank Review                                            May 5, 1988
Award                                                  May 31, 1988
4. Mid-Term Review of Project                                    Mid-1990



9JIUBLIC OF TURKEY
cliKUbOVA tdam DEULOPHMENT PEROJECT
Table 1: ENMIWEERIKG COMPOMENTS: DESIGN AN4 SUPEPVISlO) (a) ADANA
Evaluation
Review                     Completed &       Review
ADANA                       Submit       Completed by   Receipt of   Neg. of araft   Completed by   Contract
.D.raft RFP*      PRIU/wB        PrQosal        ContrACt          IS. AwardL.
A. Hydrogeological Studies               05/22/87        06/12/87       07/10/87       07/31/87        08/21/87      09/01/87
B. Drainage for Storm Drainage
Problem Areas                        04/17/87        05/08/87       06/12/87       07/03/87        07/24/87      08/03/87
C.  Upgrading and H. Mgt./S & T**        04/15/87        05/06/87       06/17/87       07/08/87        07/29/87      08/03/87
O.  Karaisali Road & Drainage and
Other Roads                          04/30/87        O5/22/87       07/17/87       08/14/87        09/04/87      09/18/87
E. Consultants for Mapping  Loss
Reduction and Rehabilitation         04/30/87        05/22/87       07/17/87       08/14/87        09/04/87      09/18/87
F.  Road Maintenance                     04/30/87        05/22/87       07/17/87       08/14/87        09/04/87      09/18/87
G.  Wastewater Management                04/30/87        05/22/87       07/17/87       08/14/87         09/04/87    o09/8/87
N.  Supervision Consultancy              05/01/87        05/22/87       06/19/87       07/10/87        07/31/87      08/07/87
RFP:  Request for Proposals. including Letter of invitation. Terms of Reference. Proposed Shortlist. and Budget for Study.
t H. Mgt: Housing Management
S&T:     Secondary and Tertiary Infrastructure
I-h



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: ENGINEERING COMPONENTS: DESIGN AND SUPERVISION (b) MERSIN
Evaluation
Peview                      Completed &       Review
MERSIN                      Submit        Completed by   Receipt of   Neg. of Draft   Completed by   Contract
Draft RfP*      PRIMU/WB       Proosal         Contract       PRIMU/WB        Award
A.  Sumnit Reservoir and Dumping at
Berdan Dam/Reservoir for Mersin      05/22/87        06/12/87        07/10/87       07/31/87        08/21/87      09/01/87
S.  Upgrading & H. Management/S & T
(Phased TOR)                         04/15/87        OS/08/87        06/12/87      07/03/87         07/21/87      08/03/87
C.  Trunk Sewers. Interceptors,
Sewage Disposal, Outfalls,
Stormwater Drainage Problem Areas   04/15/87         05/08/87        06/05/87       06/26/87        07/10/87      07/17/87
0.  Camili Road and Drainage and
Other Roads                           05/01/87       05/22/87        06/19/87       07/10/87        07/31/87      08/07/87
E.  Supervision Consultancy               05/01/87       05/22/87        06/19/87       07/10/87         07/31/87     08/07/87
F.  Consultants for Mapping, Loss
Reduction and Rehabilitation         04/30/87        05/22/87        07/17/87       08/14/87        09/04/87      09/18/87           4
G.  Road Maintenance                      04/30/87       05/22/87        07/17/87       08/14/87         09/04/87     09/18/87
H.  Solid Waste Management and                                                                _
(Upgrading of Compost Plant and
Wastewater Management)                05/29/87       06/19/87        07/31/87       08/21/87        09/11/87      09/13/87
I.  Wastewater Management and
Water Quality Monitoring          04/30/87        05/22/87        07/17/87       08/14/87        09/04/87      09/18/87
.Q
4/
0v.
m



r  r Eu uLl
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PRDJECT
Table t:  ENGINEERING COMPOMENTS: DESIGN AND SUPERVISION (c) TARSUS
Evaluation
Review                      Completed &       Review
TARSUS                      Submit        ComPleted by   Receipt of   Neg. of Draft   Completed by   Contract
°_p_ft__         PRIHU1lUW     Proposal        Contract        PRIMUJWB        Award
A. Stormwater Drainage Problem Areas    04/15/87          05/08/87        06/12/87       07/03/87         07/21/87      08/03/87
B.  Upgrading & H. Management/S & T       04/15/87        05/08/87        06/12/87       07/03/87         07/21/87      08/03/87
C. Planning & Engineering for UEA
(local Al & A3)*                    04/15/87        05,'08/87       06/12/87       07/03/87         07/21/87     06/03/87
0.  Road to East UEA and Other Roads    05/01/87          C5/22/87        06/19/87       07/10/87         07/31/87      08/07/87
E.  Supervision Consultancy               05O/01/87       05/22/87        06/19/87       07/10/87         07/31/87      08/07/87
F. Consultants for Mapping, Loss
Reduction and Rehabilitation          04/30/87        05/22/87        07/17/87       08/14/87        09/04/87      09/18/87
G.  Road Maintenance                      04/30/87        05/22/87        07/17/87       08/14/87         09/04/87      09/18/87
M. Solid Waste Management and
Sanitary Landfill                  05/29/87        06/19/87        07/31/87      08/21/87         09/11/87      09/18/87
I.  Wastewater Management and                                                                                                                o
Water Quality Monitoring           04/30/87        05/22/87        07/17/87       08/14/87        09/04/87      09/18/87             0
*   U.E.A. - Urban Expansion Area
Table 1:  ENGINEERING COMPONENTS: DESIGN AND SUPERVISION (d) CEYHAN
Evaluation
Review                      Completed &       Review
CEYHAN                      Submit        Completed by   Receipt of   Neg. of Draft   Completed by   Contract
Draft-REP*       PRIMU/WB      Pr.ouaal        Contract        PRIMUWB         Award
A. Engineering for UEA
S.  Supervision Consultancy               05/01/87        05/22/87        06/19/87       07/10/87         07/31/87      08/07/87
C. Consultants for Mapping, Loss
Reduction and Rehabilitation          04/30/87        05/22/87        07/17/87       08/14/87         09/04/87     09/18/87
0.  Road Maintenance                      04/30/87        O5/22/87        07/17/87       08/14/87         09/04/87      09/18/87
E.  Solid Waste Management                05/29/87        06/19/87        07/31/87       08/21/87         09/11/87      09/18/87
F.  Wastewater Management and                                                                                                             0
Water Quality Monitoring           04/30/87        05/22/87        07/17/87       08/14/87         09/04/87     09/18/87
.                                              .                                                         a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



REPUBLIC OF TLIRKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: ENGINEERING COMPONENTS: DESIGN AND SUPERVISION le) ISKENDERUN
Evaluation
Review                     Completed &      Review
ISKENDERUN                   Submit       Completed by   Receipt of   Reg. of Draft  Completed by   Contract
______________________ _ _ _ _ _ ____  Draft RFP*        PRIMUIWB      ProposaL        Contract       PRIMUN/W    _  Award
A.  Hydrogeological Studies              05/22/87       06/12/87       07/10/87       07/31/87        08/21/87     09/01/87
S. Oceanographic Study
C. Upgrading & H. Management/S & T       04/15/87       OS/08/87       06/12/87       07/03/87        07/21/87     08/03/87
0. Planning & Engineering for UEA
(Sites 11 & 12)
E. Road Around Canal and Osmangazi
and Other Roads                      05/01/87       05/22/87       06/19/87       07/10/87        07/31/87     08/07/87
F.  Supervision Consultancy              05/01/87       05/22/87       06/19/87       07/10/87        07/31/87     08/07/87
6. Consultants for Mapping. Loss                                                                                                         co
Reduction and Rehabilitation         04/30/87       05/22/87       07/17/87       08/14/87        09/04/87     09/18/87
H. Road Maintenance                      04/30/87       05/22/87       07/17/87       08/14/87        09/04/87     09/18/87
I.  Solid Waste Management               05/29/87       06/19/87       07/31/87       08/21/87        09/11/87     09/18/87
J. Wastewater Management and
Water Monitoring                     04/30/87       05/22/87       07/17/87       08/14/87        09/04/87     09/18/87
IoQ z
a-
0'
tD h
o >



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: ENGINEERING COMPONENTS: WORKS (a) ADANA
Preparation     Review                             Receipt                  Review
ADANA              Final Design    PRIMU/      Finalize    Issue        of       Evaluation   PRIMU    Contract   Mobilization   Construction
Tender Docs.      Ws        Documents  Tenders    Tenders                    WB        Award
Rehabilitation at
Zilltdede Wellfield          04/30/87         05/22/87   05/29/87   06/01/87   06/30/87   07/17/87    07/31/87  08/07/87
Storage Reservoirs            05/30/87         06/19/87   06/26/87   07/01/87   07/31/87   08/21/87    09/11/87  09/21/87
Primary Water Distribution   05/30/87          06/19/87   06/30/87   07/01/87   08/31/87   09/18/87    10/09/87  10/19/87
Trunk Sewers and
Sewage Treatment              05/30/87         06/19/87   06/30/87   07/01/87   08/31/87   09/18/87    10/09/87  10/19/87
Iabtl 2:  ENGINEERING COMPONENTS: WORKS (b) MERSIN
Preparation     Review                             Receipt                  Review
MERSIN             Final Design    PRIMU/      Finalize    Issue        of        Evaluation   PRIMU    Contract   Mobilization   Construction
Tender Docs.      WB        Documents  Tenders    Tenders                    we        Award                     C
Urban Expansion Area          04/30/87         05/22/87   O5/29/87   05/01/87   07/17/87   08/07/87    08/21/87  09/01/87
Table 2: ENGINEERING COMPONENTS: WORKS (c) TARSUS
Preparation     Review                             Receipt                  Review
TARSUS              Final Design    PRIMUJ      Finalize    Issue        of        Evaluation   PRIMU    Contract   Mobilization   Construction
Tender Does.      WB        Documents  Tenders    Tenders                    WsAward |
trunk Sewers                  05/30/87         06/22/87   06/29/87   07/01/87   08/31/87   09/18/87    10/02/87  10/09/87
Sewerage Treatment            05/30/87         06/22/87   06/29/87   07/01/87   08/31/87   09/18/87    10/02/87  10/09/87
Secondary and Tertiary
Sewers                       05/30/87         06/22/87   06/29/87   07/01/87   07/31/87   08/21/87    09/04/87  09/11/87
Irban Expansion Area          04/30/87         05/22/87   05/29/87   06/01/87   07/31/87   08/21/87    09/11/87  09/18/87
0
6%9



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY.
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: ENGINEERING COMPONENTS: WORKS (d) CEYHAN
iPreparatein    Review      F lRecespt                                      Review                                              .
CEYHAN            Fi Pnal  tesign    PRIMUe     FRnaleze    Issue        of        Evaluation   PRIMU    Contract   Mobilization   Construction
Tender Docs.       sB       Documents  Tenders    Tenders                    Ws        Award
swerage and Drainage         05/30/87        06/19/87   06/26/87   07/01/87   07/31/87   08/21/87    09/04/87  09/11/87
initary Landfill             04/30/87         05/21/87   05/29/87   06/01/87   07/07/87   07/27/87    08/10/87  08/14/87
Table 2:  ENGINEERING COMPONENTS: WORKS (e) ISKENDERUN
Preparation     Review                             Receipt  IReview.
ISKENDERUN           Final Design    PRIMU/      Finalize    Issue        of        Evaluation   PRIMU    Contract   Mobilization   Construction
Tender Docs.      WB       Documents   Tenders    Tenders                    WB        Award     M
)novation at Pinarbasi       OS/15/87        06/05/87   06/12/87   06/15/87   07/17/87   08/07/87    08/28/87  09/01/87                                         1
tservoir Storage            OS/30/87         06/19/87   06/26/87   07/01/87   07/31/87   08/21/87    09/04/87  09/15/87
ivelopment at Akcay         04/15/87         06/05/87   06/12/87   06/15/87   07/17/87   08/07/87    08/28/87  09/01/87
imary Water Oistribution   05/30/87          06/19/87   06/26/87   07/01/87   08/28/87   09/18/87    10/02/87  10/09/87
-unks, Pumping and
renporary Outfall           O5/30/87         06/19/87   06/26/87   07/01/87   08/14/87   09/04/87    09/18/87  09/25/87
icondaries and Tertiaries
Savas and Numane Mah.)      05/30/87         06/19/87   06/26/87   07/01/87   07/31/87   08/21/87    09/04/87  09/11/87
mnitary Landfill            04/30/87         05/21/87   05/29/87   06/01/87   06/30/87   07/17/87    07/31/87  08/03/87
I0 
0'I-



- 84 -                                                                  ANNEX 4
OAWUWA UUo tiwWPOOR"                                                       Page 12 of 16
STAFF APO*tSAL
TabG1o3: (a)   ProJect Zelinttten Progr
bl
.~~~~~~~~~ia                               lam _                               I  IUl    I   1   140                                          19    I       A  
timi                                       JU11|1MM                         AS 911 Am mufi 5]111I 1 aa i 3s m        
Kirinintiiene 1             000s CU 00  SO  CC  CC CCC CCC CCC CC   C
ui      s.f Aka 2                   ISSS SDO OCUO      U IIIWCIICC ce C CC CC CCC CCC C
Ogalbalteosi Akke9t                       t #    55    K     _       ta  tteeaCttC aCC   a c    tec ICC    ae a 'M CCCe
KOpri,.lud                    o                    S> OSC St tCC CCCCCCS S                           DCCC
arica. witaterasa,i
wolltiolds"                  m  on# ONI " c ct ctcc tCtCC  actctcCCCC
Olrvsn-ial,      s                           so        SoDo I                 t' CC    CCC   s tc cCC  ac t e  e   a    LV
Distrubi    aSm* e                                        I"C c    C  e on   c  cc ac ecc cc IM MC  MC CC  CM  =
Di1stribution CewttrwCt 2                                       0  O0  m   m( eWtC      a     e eaa ctcac CCC  acM          CCC a
|Secodry ane Twtiory
Conotact I                               SSS SOC                                                        S t  we   cec  c     CCC ccC ccc CCC Mc ea  L  C 
(Contract 2                                                                                     = #     = M DW_    Ceccecc cCCCCCCC CCCtCCCCCCC         0 
eation VWtnta
ot tfttin and ftr                   10°° EI  mlB ecC  CCC cce ccC CCC cCC ae ecc ecM c CCC cc CMecc ee CCC  ac ec ce = ce CCC| 
btildinp  otr  SE                                     l       I        tt
Storsatnton On i*CC C l n                                             CCC
|Contrat I,, and                     1K N ICCCCCCCC CCC cee       ccCCCC  cc  CCC  ccC CCC CM
Cntriact 2                  00I)MMinC* COC US  C CCC    CCC CCCaCCCCCCC
Contract 3                          I0    O8MI                                      CCCC     CCCC CC CCcCcctcCC CCCCCC
Dtoisaterbtnra                                                  S                                                              I                    I   I   I
|Secondary sal tws Teotiaroseycc e e'ecaecCCa
Problems NApngLsk
oe Mtecin and floi            tCCC   CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CC CCC
|Prourmt et   quitmnt             |0                    1 100 K1ff £ tt    seo  C ttt t          t W 8CmCs
Ou'lding foi£r w orkSh p I
Sytore                                    PPn   w   i   c Dmew= = = = = =      ==S= = ==CCCCCCCCCCC
DispoTsal                           I AXIIII
(SlA1ty LatWill Site          1      °°° m    e am CCC CCC CC                                  coo   aeCCCC
|Procet   of OuSt,                  I               8        tt tt                                                      .      |0 $Be Ca   ut       I I  
trunk  ewes nd   ra
Kontratl 1                   000 CU  CU  SOS C         CC   CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
cntm   stct       odP lM                                                   M CoM C    CCC Ccc CCC CCC CCc aC
tsectionl                                                     Pn eoo eons  eso CC cM a c   Cc acM CCC CCC CCC
Conrata   Id                                                      rasn    lsi'r f   Mn CM  Ce = CC   CC              c   c c
Stoster      rna
|DINd1Gtt Action Pit"                    00 "       an MM  CCC CCC tccC ccC                                                    
Pest41c                              CUr  C       CU   "cc CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC                                     CCc CCC  CCC CCc
Soutine NtlantS d maCa                   000 il     "cc l PCCC  CC C   CCC 5 0: CCC CCC e CCCe Ce       MC      MC CC CC e  CC CCC CCC
iProcurwot of Plant SN                               C     E .
5    PlanniollStudlot                                              Of * lWlib1tatin
P      ntruct1i ry o nn n                                          C x ttruct1t
O       - Final O0sin                                                 t = t      I  t Delivery
fr * rtdditn                                                        'Cnoad in fCurth nttr of Sl
otnei Cnmnnc   1in tI IrI .uer"c, of 1586



- 85 -
nmy                                         ~~~~~~ANNEX   4
CWUb0VAU JSWLM  MJCT                                                      Page 13 of 16
STAFF APPRASAL
Table 3 (b)  Prject XlCUntation Pr0avr
infrastructure; On-site
amd Off-site
contract I Localities 65/6
and C  S S SOM   O   IICCCC CC   CCC CCC   CCC CCC CCC
Contract I Lo .lities AS,           SSS PPO CUO SM  IIIISCc CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
Contract S LoClitis A.                                              Sss pep         IID  DI m C  CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
8I. CI ONd DI
oteirtas   aSS   So  *c anH we                                  CC  CCC CC    C CCC  CCC
Portagal/Ostyr.                         as  soC co  a               CCC CCC CCC      CCC CCC
Toskoawran. Satlik
Akbolan, 2ua*lar.                                                        SS OSo 00  on        weC CCC CCC cc C  . CCC  CCC  CC| CCM
&uiiOgdia Teniestar
Priuary ilktor Suply                                                                            S         S
Wydrogelogical Study
S4i"t ReServOir. PiMing
Station atern lo    a E t |nt and
R|eervoir 2                         P   SM S  EC CCC CCC C   CC
Zone I Reservoir Prinary
Distribution and addition
of E/  Euin in PuiA                                      onat                   CCC CCC CCC
station at ferdan Plant                             -1P1JJ.L11.X.X   X                  
Priarey Distribution                                                                                 as m       mm CCC MCC
Secondary/Tertiary                    I |1 me ON   m          a    c CC U       CCC =  CCC CCC CCC CCC|CCC| CCC MC MC CI  I
operations Nid mimntsnce
System dapping. Leek
Detection and Rpair                 AL AL so. =X  Cm.           Cm X    . CC    CM. U   .5.    CCC.5  CM.
Pr|curc,ent of Equirt   |           MWD mie Kg tEEo on NCII   'It to ODII - atu tC
Buildins for Wbrkshops     |
stores  PC9C  SM SM |C c C CCC CCC
SANITAYION *5 DRtlAiSC
Trk SOWerS, intterceptors.
pretre5trnt at Karaduvan
and PosCo
Contract I                          P99  n      SM   C CCC CCCCCC CCC       CCC CCC
Contract 2               tCU U                                       a  o   NC CCC CC C CCC CCC CCC CC CCC
Rehabilitation of Existing
uutfall Facilities                  P99 USe an CCC CCC CCC CCC
Secondary/Tertiary   ad                       we BK  CM CCC  CCC   CCC CCCC CCC: =  CCC CCC|CCC CCC i        CC C   CCCC
Storamater Drainage
Proles Areas:
IP*aniye                            CU SM SEE CCC CCC CCC CCC
operations an f winten*nce
syste  Naping aNW Repair            SMM m  Wi CCCC CCC   meC C          CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
Procursaimt Of £iwigmnt             C    MR    5E    M01LELD                 ME    E
Collection:
buildings for Warkshopsl
Store                                    PP P99 055 SM  cC CCC CCC
Refuse Collection System0onEEUt08o                                                                              sC
Procurwmt or tquiommnt                B an OK  15 CM                     5   MECLE                    SS    IG
Disposal:.
Upgrading CosMt Plant                   CU SM  NC =C  cc
Sanitary Landfill                       DoS "a so= CCC   cc
Procurnmt Of Iqulemnt                         B M  LE  LE
ROADS AND 1MUMIM
Cotnstution:
Contract I wovenats to
Camilt Road            r~~~ Po1 ont tUS (Cm  =~ c0. ta
Contract I torovemnts to
Beau Dead                                            .9. Ot 00 J XL Lt MC     XL X C
taudite Actisi Plan                              ElIS   S mm     U =   C
Periodic Upintuerncs,                   =s515i  CCC  =E                            UU  CC MC             c U:        CM ~ ' CM
BoatingeMaintenance                      SI EPSCC .                 IS     ;    ISX          'U U   :U SI        ' I               :
Proturltn of plantad
Equipmnt                                SM  SMII5    MIMlE11CUS   E  E
Legend;
S   aPlanniinDfStudies                                             N IbMliStioIi
P       Preliminary Design                                       Ca Construction
B   sfinal Design                                                I a toiquiRt Selivery
a    Bidding                                                     * CncedW In ffourth  uarfter of 1946



- 86 -                                                                  ANNEX 4
,,,v                                                         Page 14 of 16
CWCUOVA Una OEWLOr PRJXCT
STAFF APRASAL
Table 3 (c)  Project  pl_entat1en Pregr_
- _ ~~19L   -    _ l                                         _L       9i__"i__S       
U   IXSPASION - CAST SIDE
infrastructure On-site
Omd Off-site
Contract IA Loality A?"    =  CCC CCC
Contract     Balance OF     co DB     w C CC CCC CCC C
Locality A2Z1
Localities Al/A3                    SSS PPP PMD OD   BBB IMCC CC  CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC C
UOIl'ZAiL IdISIGUMA3
Casiler                             OOD     age CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
afhce/Barharos ard r1irne
Ilincluding stometer
drainage works) t eSSS SSS WO Df     IoC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCI
Yeninehalle                                             SSS SSS OOD OB B a    C CCC CCC CCC  CCC CCC  CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
WATER SIMPLY
Primry Water Supply
Hydropeological Study                                                                            SSS SSS
For 1987-1992 Develont              DOD.0 OOD  MI .CCCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CC. CCC CCC C =CC
Operations and Nsntenmnce
System Naping. teak
Detection and Repair                NOo Dtu  tCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
Pracurmnt of toui1nt                NO   B ttE at.                        0 Doo O B   Ett m
Building for wDrkshops Ad
storage                                 mP  ooi U   U "CCC  CCC CCC =
SANITATI ADU MO AXIMACI
Trunx Swers and Treatant
Contract 1                  DOD OSUS _eC CCC CCC CCC C Coe Coe CCC  CCC C
Contract 2                                                    D DDD Dll tUB IC CCC we      CCC|CCCC CCC
Storter Drainae prolm
Areas
Centract I Eevzi Cakauk      O DD Om B CC  CCC   CCC CCC CCC t      CC & CC
Secondary/Tertiary  xetworks
I"?7 Prgm                           am  US NC =C  CC ce C=
198S Program                              0 Dwe US 3CC CCC CCC CCC
1989 Program                                              0 0DI  S tSCC CCC CCC CCC
1998 Progm                                                           15i IM WCCC
1991 Progrem                                                                         NILE BO  "cc   Uo
1992 Progrm                                                       D                                     aD  ICC l  |CCC   CCC
Operations and Mainternae
System Iapping and Repair           DO OB am MCC CC                                         CCC                      CCC CCC CCC
Procuraemnt of tquipau              NO NB fJt tt its                        Do as onE L   a
Collection
Buildings for Workshops and
Storage                             so Do           CC C    C
efuse Collection SysteS
Procurent of tquipaDnt                C NB 6BB EOK   ttt ina                   San   t               Do as mE m
Disposal
Sanita  Landfill                    NOD US   C CCCCC                                                  SO   NM |D   CCC
Procurearnt of Equ1i t                fB US   tEt                           U Bat  Dtt g                   S US |_|ttt, IU
WIADS, AND  q,RM                                                                                    ll                                                  |* 
Construction
Road to East txpanion Area          P     B Bl  IC CCC CCCc  CCC CCC CCC CCC
Caal Road                                             P PDDS  a   ICCCCC CCCCCCCCCCC|
Maintenance
Ir_diate Action Plan                    NO  Um  Dt7 KCC CCC CCC  C CCC
Periodic Maintenncoe                    DDD  f    I   CC CC ICC CCC C CC CCC   CCC|CC mC  :o    CC  CCC CCE  CCC   CCC C
Routine Neintanac                        W  S  fI  CC CC CC  CCC C  CE ICCC    C CC  CCC     C           CC  CCE  CCC CC C   CC  CCC
Procurement of Plant and
(ai_Erit                                BOB US In    l tO  NB EEL LEa u s _     l L _L_ E_
S        Plann1inetudies   .                                       = *   bilisBt1n
P   * Pelitairy Oesimn                                           C * cotErutimon
O   * final  asigon                                              t * Iqoint  alivry
s Uidding                                                       * Cnend in oe*e  qrwr of 1936
117Us m                                                            Conced in third  4atr of 19t6



- 87 -
Tnn                                                          ANNEX 4
OU8A VAUMLO   mT POJCCt                                                    Page   15   of   16
STAFF AWPAUAZA
Table 3 (d) Projet tglmntati@n Progra
.                     IS [7     L    ISit       1 __ 191I1IOU  take             I    11o        1    1412       1    IS4        1    lo"       I
infrastructure on-site
aVd Off-site
Contract I                             amC AU AL BSe mC CCC CCC CC CCC CCC CCC CCC =   CCC CCCCC.
SaMITATtN AND ODAIIM
Collection lletwr and
TeIorary Oispesal
Cntract 1^*          D    tD  ols  sCC CC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
Contract 2                                                   SD0 we 1  we NC cc CCC CCC CCC coc CCC CCC CCC
Seage Treatment Plant"    000 BO3M la          MCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
Operations  nd Maintenance
System Naing  nd    air            000     Illse    IC CCC CCCC   CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
Procurement of Iquipmt                   0 0   881 ESt t                 00PD   Du  tU  a
Buildins  for Nakhops/
stores                                                             pon                t   C  C   C
Collection
Building fo UOI*IO00/
Stores                                             P   JD 001    1 n w   CCC CCC CCC
Rfuseo Collection Systam
Procurmentt of  quit                    00 018 au  tE  a                                 0 Ws81  m  mL| 
Oisposal
Sanitary Laindfill"        00  3M  80 CCC CCC CCC                                                S -  CCC CCC
Procurement of Equipent"                 S 555lI I tSu aII e
|RADS ANO TRMSPOT
Imeediate Action Plan                  MD 8  so ICC CCC CCC CCC CCC
Periodic Maintenaeo                    am  U  t  "CCC CC CC CCC         = CCC   CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CC CC CCC CCC CCC ccC ccc CCC
Routin Mainte1nane                     On   O am CCI CE CC CC  CC  CCC               CCC CC tCC  CC CC CC  CCC    0  C|C
Procurent of Plant ndW
tquiipnt                _011 A         O tt     t m  _ _               U _ _ ___
S   - Planning/Studies                                         1N  Nob1iliatin
P    Prelimnary Oesign                                          C  Conction
o   -final Design                                               £ *  qihit Salivary
O     Bidding                                                      ncef1    in fOurth  qarter oat I9N
357W                                                           ' Conced in thiird qarter of 1906



- 88 -                                                               ANNEX 4
,,WD                                                          Page 16 of 16
Ciiuva hAl Mm WLW00U  PRUIXT
STAFF APPOAIALA.
Table 3 (e) Proect naleistatien Pr"tin
Isekndernm
1|_a_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  I 
UMM&LSIU=
Infrastructr on-sitsi
Contract I                              ODd Of-st  1111 MONIMCCCCX   CCC  CCC CCC CC =CCC acml                                                    
contract Ia                                            ss        Omj zo oo m  m  MCC cec  CMt          CCC c  c  cceceII
^ IaJsiXEC  .EIL   ffl
GUlt"e and YildIrietCpe                000     C N  C =       C CM M       CCC
Koeatepe and BariStop                               PP m   o  De  SO    ece       tc cc cc      t tce
leat.,                                                                     . PO re4  ^  rs  aC  ct ncr  CCC   ctc eCCC CCC CCC
Priasry water Supply
n"ydrogoloegcl Studifs                     SSS SSS S5
Source Wwrt StudY                                   5 SsS as
Construction
Extraction. Collection aN
Paaping
Contract 1i                 00U 0  wc NCc              Cm   =  =c Cm MCc
Contract a                 ODO                             800 CCCC CCC CCC CCC CCC eee
Reservoirs aNd Prim ry
Network
Contract 1,                MS  U   B  iC CC CC C ec           :   CCC  CCC CCC 
Contract a                                             PPP POO we  B       CCC CCC CC =      CCC eCCCCMC
Operations nd Maintenance
Systam "Maine, Leek
hietectioneSnd Repir               im   -  DC =  CDC Cm CM           CCC CM '   =     CM   =  U CM     U  CM       CCC m
Procura_ t of cquignt              £0              t au                D D 00003 tff t£t
Ouildings for Wdorksho/
Stores    APP 000 0O0s  eC CCC CCC CCC
cAAITATIlOh ANDi OrNA?M
Oceanographic Survey               SSS SSS 555 SSS
tfui* Sewerage
Contract I                  00 0                               OtlC OBB   WC0  MC CCC CCC CCC CCC  eee eee eee CcI
loerations and Maintenance
System Maing oNW Repair                 BOB BXC CCC CCC         CCC cm  =  CCC CCC CCC C   CCc CcC e    CCC   CCC CCC CCC    CI                   I
Procuremnt Of Equipmen
iSalo VA=II    
Collection
Building for workshops/
lXus  Collection SysteS  00ai-                            CCc                                                                             I       I       I
Procurewet of |t£tu£itt                      0 m   m   at  t       "  £ E   m   ut £1                  on     I    Ui
Disposal
Sanitary Landfill"          U 00    iS. XCC 'XL X(                     0003t CCC CCC
Prcuretat of Equi1_                |     m tu                                                        a I E  Bt
eamASMO TUilmIUO
Construction
Road alon Cal ad Ona
sGai le_nt                         PPO 003  n ICCiCCC CCC CCC cCC
Maintenance
ldiate Action Plan                     00000 8      8CC eCM CCC CCC CCC
Periodic 1 ie^ntence                    Ut000  S am WLC c ec CM  MC CCC = e  XL iU   c  XL  :o: CC cc c  CCC XC CM  CCM    C CCC
Routine maintace                                               CC 000  UM 'Ue e                                    CDC 'C  Cc  C  e  Coe ece ee U    IC
Procurement of Plant ed
S   a Planninr/Studi1s                                          N a  ebilintin
P   * PrelinarJy Oneion                                         C a Construction
o   * Final Design                                              t * Equsiwpnt OSlivary
a   * IBidding                                                  * C nce  in fourth quarter of 19t
lush                                                              Conned In third quarter of 1965



- 89 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Turkey
Project Year        Disbursements       Cumulative                  Profilee.'
(USs million)    (US$ million)        X             S
Year 1   Dec. 31, 1987        6.0                 6.0            5              1
June 30, 1988       8.0                14.0           12              5
Year 2   Dec. 31, 1988        9.0                23.0           19            11
J-me 30, 1989      10.5                33.5           28             18
Year 3   Dec. 31, 1989       10.5                44.0           37            27
June 30, 1990      11.5                55.5           46             36
Year 4   Dec. 31, 1990       11.5                67.0           56            46
June 30, 1991      11.0                78.0           65            55
Year 5   Dec. 31, 1991        9.5                87.5           73            64
June 30, 1992       9.0                96.5           80             72
Year 6   Dec. 31, 1992        7.5               104.0           87            80
June 30, 1993       5.5               109.5           91            86
Year 7   Dec. 31, 1993        5.0               115.0           96            91
June 30, 1994       3.0               118.0           98             95
Year 8   Dec. 31, 1994        1.5               119.5           99            98
June 30, 1995       0.5               120.0          100           100
I/ Combined for all loan types.



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 15
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING
1.       The existing staff of the project municipalities for the existing
organization structures are summarized ir tables 1 to 5.
2.       The municipality assemblies have adopted the revised organization
charts set out in charts 1 to 5. These charts are currently being reviewed by
the MOI and State Personnel office.
3.       Members of the organizational task forces in each municipality are
formulating the detailed staff requirements. Tables 6 to 10 show the senior
staff proposals as of February 1987 for the priority departments now being
reorganized as part of the project. Reorganization of other departments will
take place in the course of project execution.



REPUBUC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: ADANA MUNICIPALITY STAFF NUMBERS BY JOB CATEGORY AND DEPARTMENT
Job Catogory                        Dept      Protfes.             Cler-   Super-           Oper.&
Departueut          Deputy Mayor  Nasoger  & Tech.   Admin.   ical    visory  Craft  Drivers  unskilled  Total
Ui0mrn2 u4 AduiUailIESiRU
Mayor's Office            5          -           3         -         7        1       -       6           7        29
Accounting                           1           -         2         2        -       -       -           -         5
Revenues                             1           1        23       161        5       -       -           3       199
Expeaditure                          1           3         1        24        5       2       6           -        42
Waterlevy                            1           1        16        1S        a      19       3          25        88
Tenders and Final
Act.                      -          1           3         -         -        1       -       -           -         5
Audit                     -          1           3         -         4        -       -       2          10
Correspondence            -          2           -         -         9        1       -       -           -         9
Personnel                 -          2           -         -         9        1       -       -           -        12
Legal Affairs             -          1           3         -         2        1       -       -           -         7
Supply                    -          2           1         8         4        1       -       1           2        18
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
TOTAL                     5         11          17        SO       237      23       21      1s          42       424
Road, Water. Sewerage   -            2          32        13        16        a     136    163          282       657
Scavenging                -          1           1        29        11       -        6    100          446      594
Municipal Works           -          1          35         2         9        3        1      2           4        57
Vehicle Naint.            -          3           5         4         4       2      173       8          1t       217
TOTAL                                7          73        48        40       13     316    278          750      1525
_____________________________________________________________________________________________           ---_____ _______
K-
U'



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPME    PROJECT
Table 1: ADANA MUNICIPALITY STAFF NUMBERS BY JOB CATEGORY AND DEPARTMENT
(Cont'd.)
Job Category                      Dept.    Profets.            Cler-   Super-          Oper &
Department         Deputy Mayor  Manager  & Tech.   Admin.   ical    visory  Craft  &rivers  Unskilled  Total
gguuuu!itz lIUica
Police                             -          -       139        -      34       19     16          1       209
fire Brigade             -         I          1         1        1      25        1     41         72       142
Veterinary               -                    -         I        1       4        -      4         45        46          1
lealth                             -          -         1        -        1       1      -           3        6
conomices                -         4          -         1       20        2       -      1           2       30
ParkesandG erdens        -         I          5         4        1        1       7      7          90      116
Cemeteri e                         -          -         4        4        1       -      2          40       53
Admin Aftairs            -                    -         1        -       -        1      -         41        43
newolv1t  IF'ud                     -         -                  15     10      6T     18         61       181
lakery                  *          1          -         3        3       5       22     12         36        82
Market                   -         2           1        9        9        2       -      4         35        62
Culture/Theatre          -         1          -         -        3       -        3      -          2         9
Slaughterhouse          -          1          1         1        7       1       35      a         65       119
fusservicos              -         1          1         9        3       3        1    181         25       224
Dus Terainal            -          1          -         4        3       -        -      1          1        10
TOTAL                             16          9       188       70      89      is1    295        519      1342
Urban Pluiag            -          I         18        -        14       7        3      t          7        55
lteal Estate                       1          4         -        T       1               2          1        16
TOTAL                    -         2         22         -       21        8       3      7          8        71
-  --  --  -     -     -- -   - ----  ----   -   ------------------------------    ------   - ---- -   -------------   -   ---------- --     -     --  --  --     -     -     --  --  --     -     -    - -  -- 
GUARD TOTAL              5        36        121       286      368     133      496    598       1319      3362
0 z
w 



KLYULSLALL k' TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPbMEN PROJECT
Table 2: MERSIN MUNICIPALITY STAFF NMBERS BY JOB CATEGORY ANI) DEPARTMENT
Job Category                      Det  .   £rofess.           Clar-   Super-          Oper.&
tuoUt         Deputy Mayer Nemager  & T8eb.   AdAia.   ieal    visory  CruAt  Drivers  Unskilled  Total
U2622g and AdviaLaSru1La
Mayor' Office           2          2          4        1        -        -       1      -           -       10
General Adis.           -          -          6       12        14       -       6     16         47       100
Finance                 -          2          -        2       16        2       -      -                   22
Personael               -                     -        -       28        2       -      -           2       34
Corresponda*ce          -          I          -        -        19       -       -                          20
TOTAL                   2          7          9       1s       77        4       7     16          49      186
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Project Constructiom    -          -          -        3         1       9      68    100         133      314
Deig                    -          -         13        9        4        -       8      6           9       48
vehicle plaint.         -          -          2        6        -        1     112      7           7      135
Water Corp.                        1         16       10        38       8      73     26          46      218
Scavengiag                         I                   -         -       1       -     53         249      3"0
Copost rectory          -          -          -        I         -       -       7      4           7       19
TOTAL                              2         31       29        43      19     268    195         451     1038
A"iz fisrTIeSS
Poalie                             4          -       65        -        -       -      -           -       69
Fire Brigade                       -          -                  1       8       _     34         61       105
Veterinary                        -           2        -        -        -       -      -           1        3
Pel.ol.le                          2                                                    4 1  1  -  _  4  60  68
Cenetry                           -           -- -                               1      2           8       11
Bs Servic                    -      e                             1  _   1      11    86            9      115
Economic                           1          -        -        6        -       -      -          -
lelth                       -         _      _.                I        -       1      -          -         2
Abbetor r                         -           -        1        1        3      33     13          6        59
Parke   d Gardens       -         -                             -        -       5      8        t08       122
OTAL                              7           2       70       10       12      58    149        253       561
Urbba Planig            -          4         37        4       19        1       -      -           _       65
TOTAL                              4         37        4        19       1       -                          G s 65
GAND TOTAL              2         20         79      118       149      36     332    360         753     1850
___________  __________________________________________________,,_______________________________________________---



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: TARSUS MUNiCIPALITY STAFF NUMBERS BY JOB CATEGORY AND DEPARTMPT
___________ _-- _             -- --      --------------------_-_ --------- - -
Job Category                       Dept.    Profess.              Cler-   Super-          Oper.&
Departoent          Deputr Mayor  Manager  & Techn.  Adain.   ical    viisry  Craft  Drivers  Unskilled  Total
--- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --__-- -- -- ---_-------------------_----------__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ - _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
!iunuRs 224 446W~uR&ESIL2
Mayor's Office            1          -          -         -         _        _       _                             I
General Adai.                                     1      1         -        -       -       -           -         2
Finance                   1          1          -         9         _       _        _       _           _       11
Personnel                           -            1        8         -        1       -       -           -        1?
Correspondence            2          -           -        3         -        -       -       _           _         4
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-------------------------------
TOTAL                     3          1          2        21         -        1       -       -           7        35
Project Construction    -            3          6         -        18        4      12      3?          99      179
Vebicle Maintenane                  -           -         -             -            -       -           -        -
Vmtur Corp                           1           1       23         -        1       7       3          11        47
Scavenging                           -           1      195         -        3       2      83          33      242
TOTAL                                4          8       218        18        8      21      48         143      468
2£or-mitz fstri¢ss 
Police                    -          1           -       33         -        -       -       -           1        35
Fire Brigade              -                     -        16         -        -       -       3           1       21
Veterinary                -          -           1                  -        -       -       -           1         7
Wholesale                 -          I           -        6         -        -       -       -           4        11
Cesmetry                  -          -           -        2         -        -       -       -           8        10
Bus Service               -                     -        11         -        -       2      43           2       59
BconomiC                             -          -        18         2        2       -       -           -       22
Parks and Gardens         -          -          -         -         -        -       2       -          20       22
TOTAL                                4           1       91         2        2       4      46          37      18?
Urban Planning
TOTAL                    _           _          _         _         _        _       _       _           _
GRAND TOTAL               3          9         11       330        20       11      25      94         18T      690
_-n



REPUBLC OF 7KY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: CEYHAN MUNICIPALII'Y STAFF NUMBERS BY JOB CATEGORY AND DEPARTMENT
-- - - - -- - - - -         --          - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - ---- -----             - - --- - -------------
Job Category                           seot.    Prof.ss.                 Cler-   super-              Oer.&
Department            Deputy Mayor   sariger s b Toch.   Aduin.   ical    visory  Craft  Drivers  Unskil1ed  Total
________________________-___________         ___-_____----_______________________       ___________________________________
Pare and  ardess             -           -            1          1          -        -         1        1           36         40
Price R*.ulatio              -           -                                                                           -          I
Scavenging                   -           1            -          2          -        5         -       9             8         75
Police                       -           2            -         26          -        4         -       -             -         32
Wbolesele                                -            -          -          1         1        -       -             -          2
Correspoodence               -           1            -          1          2        -         -       -             I          5
eelth                                    -            1          -          1        -         -        -            -          2
Conatruction                 -           3            4         13          1         -       20       17           52        100
Water and Due Services  -                -            -          6          6         1       32       15           20         80
Fire Department              -           1            -          1          -        5         -      14            32         53
Abbatoir & teterinary   -                -            -          -          -        -        16      1              -         31
Accountiig'                  -           1            2          9         23        2         -       -             2         39
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__-------------------------------
TOTAL                                    9            8         60         33       18        69      71          191        460
oa
0 



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5: ISKENDERUN MUNICIPALITY STAFF NUMBERS BY JOB CATEGORY AND DEPARTMENT
Job Category                        Dept.    Profess.              Cler-   Super-           Oper.&
Department          Dejluty Meyor  Manager  & Tech.   Ad-in.   ical    visory  Craft  Drivers  Unskilled  Total
t2LalvstRed fift dis%tEatiea
Mayor's Office            2          -           -         -         -        -        -      -            -         2
Finance                   -          1           -         S        22        6        -                   4       38
Correspondence            -          4           2         1         2        1        1       1           2        14
TOTAL                     2          5           2         6        24        7        1       1           6        54
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__-------------------------------
T1^g!Ue91 flL!ic9
Project Construction    -                       22         2         2        5       23       7         208       269
Vehicle maintenance
(includilg garage)        -          1           2         3         2        1       21     82            6       118
Water Corp.
(including bus serv.)   -            2           2         3        31        7       29       3          76       153
Scavenging                -          1           2         -         -        _        1       4         147       155
TOTAL                                4          28         8        35       13       74      96         437       695
gwoffsa tz SSE9vices
Police                               I           -        65         -        3        _-                  -        69
Fire Brigade              -          2           -         -         -        -        -      17          29        48
Veterinary                           -               -          -        -                     -
Wholesale                            1           -         5         I        -        -       -           2         9
sconomic                  -          -           -         2         8        3        7       2          13        35
leslth                    _          -           -         I         -        1        3       2          32        39
Abbatoir                  -          1           1         -         1        -       22       -          10        35
Parks and Gardens         -          -           --                  -        1        9       -          23        33
TOTAL                                5           1        73        10        8       41     21          109       268
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
YAWt 2923E19posa
Urban Planning
TOTAL                           -                -         -         ---
GRA"D TOTAL               2         14          31        87        69       28      116      118        652        1017
------------------------------------------------------------                                                                       oN



CUKUROI
ADANA ME
CHART 1
PRO
ME
BOARD OF AUDiT
DEPUTY SKLYRY  GENERAL                                    DEPUTY SECRJCAY GENERAL
PIANNINO  SERVICES                                       TECENICA   SEVICES
UBNO PLANNING                             INPOOW. HOUSING                           IMPLEHCE6TATIIN                     PROTECTION SERVII
M  PROGRWUWG                 ENT ANO                           AND ~~~~~~~~CONTROL.               oEpARiNEN  OIRfC
OEPARThENT DIRECTOR                        $GBNG PROGRtMS                           OtPARTMNT DIREOR
tDPARMN  DICTOII
a.n1ct  4W                                                        tiec1wts >16                                am
c _ _ w~~~~~~~~~~~fn0 na                                   on        PLSs.                  useull_ i
gm,.,'.  t,....u  _..  tMs
4... m~j                                                                  CR141    (bi
| t-mt-o                                                                    -toN (d  S1 .1  g i  |
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tu                                  l }*X$_
I        *Il                                         I
of                                        "a"             - ---- *   b--...... ale,..,f
_-"                    _u~~~~~4t  _.i
cb   .4        r         w_i_                               _n                     _                                                  st
.1   O    ~ ~     ~       ~ ~ II 
SOLI WASTE MANAGEMENT                            ,OAD  SERVICS                      FIR  FIhtIN                 AE,GMN
sale      1455 c4w?                                                  ttiUVft nnn  _
Uu~~~?  444*454  RW44         -a 40404                                   9 VMU .4444
7 _ zt ~~~~~~~~I-=                                                        tW  ''->d--'.w---, Gtm
-                           i.- - - -- -- l -- -.--- ..... . .. ..
t*§w C §~OA                      CC-        to-_Wr trs  y¢
$'"~~~~~~~S9                               Str  -*
~~~        ,.                              wee.~~t"lc  msov                 .45,....                                  (4454attol
Ct11----.,t (44544,5..,        r--.-  , .
wowat1                            (4              etd     O                               .      0
41If     4a" 4C1, 1               Rt 4$-1.
W  of ~                    ~i    5.5.  Uas4
.St*    S-    n..4                     *4      p..4454                                                        411
ST~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                    e..                                               444444



- 97 -
IC OF TURKEY
I DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LITAN iMUNICIPALITY                                                                                                    ANNE 6
Page 8 of 15
tGANIZATION CHART
LITAEI MAYOR
- AYKOMI
- uxo.
I                          - PPB C0rTMs
DIRECTOR OF PL4X=G,                     -    ERTS
METAR1( GENERAL                         PROGRAAMIDG AND BUDGETING                   - PUtLICATIN
(PROJECT COORDINATOR)                    - LIBRARY, 
'SECRETARY G                              DEPUTY SECREARY GCI3A                          WAT  AD SAITATION
2CIAL SERVICES                               ADMNIJISTRATIVE AUD                             AMISTIATION
FUWINCtAL SERVICES                            GENERAL DIRECTOR
SOCIAL AMO                PUBLIC                                     KpUTy FME
ULTU A AFFAtRS          TRSPORTAON                                 T C        5                                                 u
PAUThXWT OICth*  O£PARThNT aIRnCTl                                                            A
Cw t      n _      uts
£   t _          t          , _
t*  -t
t-Wi _ l  Me," .__d
_    T.,.  SERVl.S                                 1 1 S1  1
~~~~t ,I,  mg*,  " -dt|llhz@*t
tI"AKIAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE fERACCA5 PRtt f
OEP OIRER               ' 0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~WWI
I                                                                 -------
he~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,wk   q _, ,,t_ e...  #"Isowl t.                  - -
FINAIICUL $ERVICES. PWMREMEA   SZYIcS                                                                   lNMAL ERVCT
ANO DATA PQocFSSjxG ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      MAAGR                                               ANGE
....... ..                     A' u.. ..... . .  _
icts  -,,,                              t..,                    44V4so49                     *l   S4I444
441B                 ul4m414a
IF  Ck"t   CNW   Cbut~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Iot l
FINANCIAa.                       I~srt- awtj  o  o
SERVICS. PROUREMNIAlow"                   ERVTCL



CUKUIR
cmtr
M
CHART 2
BOARD OF AUDIT
MtNICIPAI
D IPM MAYOR                                                nuefl MAYO&
DEPUTY MAYOR                                                                     YO
FOR                                                                   FOR
PL GUG SEVICES                                                       TECMCA ARVICU35
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                           NIl                                I   F   I               I
Una  LAMIfl AM            ~    UU            M~                     WPIft  NMU A6 AC1KW         MSIU     UU.ITU            N
P80EMEiTAT l O@rECTWO                                              UP6RtDIIG P     S    O1WO4 ox
411M  1*46466*  CUlt-    M6*  16488   6    6mW- mu m  U'tO                AM 6tVt,   Am =tku
. ... ;;   cow      co;- cw *V;         .w   *"'of-          _        e        e       a*s           fvmw    'am
i< of         of   of      f      f      ot          WSUS
Lo_ m  Cant-    WW  SWUl A~                " I.       1-dI
ft#AV-~~~~~~~~~~ GWO     -&  --  __                                                    _
15.0~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CtAII                             11080 SffVlCE @'2  fl6H.ll          PS,16  4AMS.         fll
I      I
f, ~~ 11  *I  *f  oft 
""t644 )4141  10.8.   *66ft.                             _
161881  PIAMIAS   MU   *1*8w*04  501i6   or mm
CLEANSING    laD SEAVICES    FIKE FIGHTIN       PARKS, BARREN.        BUIILOING
OIRity"     GINeCIO           GIRCTO!       ArND CtNUUIES        CoNSTsR=Ic
NAtNTENANI
I   a              Io4
r     o  ll  V       -- - --                                                                     n 
C S   et     t      .*OS
~~~51*11*                  6*41555    §s            sePtv C6*)
I      _       I                                                              _..
met        i'-'-''-''I                                                             1-''
x1                                                                                                to 4  O
$*6|                   No _* 
o              It    ,   ............. ,,.
4lI. t* d            6,o-,
c~               11*8664
$.~~~~~~~~~~~~~Asso ,.,,"                 $4    o



- 98 -
PUBLIC OF TURKEY
WBAN DEVELOPEN PROJC                                                                                                                A fE 65
a Wb~~~~EVEfOPMNNTPROjEGT ~~~~~~~~~Page 9 of 15
N MUNICIPALITY
D ORGANIZATION CHART
MAYOR
I    PSSAAPURLCDIRECTORD- REEARCR AND PIANNING SERVICES MANAGER
_ * PRESS AND PUBLIC            DDRECTOR OF                     - ARCHIVE, LIBRARY AND DOCUMENTATION
RELATIONS DIRECTOR  PROGRAMME PLANNDIG                        SERVCES MANAGER
AND BUDGETING                    - DATA PROCESSING SERVICES MANAGER
-- LEGAL AFFAIRS         (PROJECT COORDINATOL)                 - PUBLICATION MANA6ER
DlgECTOR (COUNSELOR)
lRECTOR-
DEPUTY W AYORt                                           DEPUT  MAYORt                                            GENERLAL DIRECTOR
FOR                                                      FOR                                                         FOR
SOCIAL SE itVICES                                        ADMINISTRATMV                                           WATER AND SEWERAGE
mCSAL SE arcEs                        ~~~~~~~~~~~AND FIANCIAL SERVICES                                   CO}¢PRATION
CUL A       S eS stwvzcEs       VtIANCIA   PERSOaMtL AO    PtOCUUEt  CtISC
:Es    CULTURAL     OlRCTOC           SERVICES    MANPOKId        DIRCTOR      ANO ANCILLAY
frt tISR                       OIRtCIOR    OMLOMETHtl                      EINE
DIRECTOR                                     DIMCTO                       ODIRO
WlUUMt      I.t ""   -$  Sa
IS                      C_q4    Cet                                                           U      I u I.*IUI  W;W C e
... - .........  ...c.   ...
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                            of               4 f 
I                                                   a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m~~~r   Uwo% I
-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               -   _
,*It   tooA
I  7IS d d t            ..v     c.   I -lI -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.                                          bw t    _ _ 1W           st
Ta"                                                                  -
S   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~ttwI   TIUIIm  wpo   dISal'ttl                                          Co"
&.0    -b  onill  cin4  cot   (14,   01.  utIh  *-,o
4114)14            ~~~        ~~~W04I fs IS'anW
-"A    f



eza_~~*.   z-a.U  sW                                   - batw ba4
--a             St                    a "er
!IJ ~ ~ ~ se   see _se 
-                                                    45  a a=
.DU,mf  wwe,                b-ot            1oft" O
a~~~ ~ ~    ~ _S  5                                       _5
^ *~~~~s            l       sov     |     04"   It  X"    SW
see  ser  Lee  _b- e                           s
" e~~~~~~~w                                                                  OR  do_ °
W.  IM0 c"m,*W
i I                            .                .           ,
tQv~~~~~                   ~~~ to   Joo
mns~~~~~~~w
em           ~~~~~am   WV -, u       ai   U3ih           am     s*      3l
Af32SW   02
04-0 Oft-""uz                  Ouu  m3&*d3
S3~~~~~2M2S WU~~~~~~~~~
ob    .6U
10.4          ~-                                 - )
NOAVW AJAna                                   volvx~~~~~~ a      a      S
- I~~~~~~~~~~-S.   . .
Inv io auvoenae    U                                             a
al    e9.a nHe5 
kmao ~ ~ ~ a                    a                                                   ge               e



- 99 -
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUS MUNICIPALITY                                                                                      ANIt 6
Page io- of 15
MSED ORGANIZATION CHART
-MAY'OR 
- IKSIMCj AND PIJM   SEZVCKS HawGIn
DIRECrOR OF               - MTA PROCsSING SEIIVICES  1m
PROGRAhNE PLANIJU             - "MMu   Ija   _, AMM
AND BUDGETING                DOCINAION SRVICS MM"=
(PROJECT COOIDINATOR)          - MLITIN H
I                                                                   I7
DEPUTY MAYOR                                                     GENERAL DIRECTOR
FOR                                                               FOR
SOCLAL AND ADbWSRATIVE SERVICES                                          WATER AND SANIlTATON
CORPORATION
PWLIC   .aaszaAL   Csiu    UCIM.AM   FIUIKRA    PCNWWILZ~    LUMAA    FUN=    P~JSU
RELATIOS    r.Zc   Mime      OILMM    stw=         PA      A#Ag      mOWS       h
Oiitcme    NWTO    SZUV1C"3 st4 AFFAM  DM*        "        zMwct    TrATU-
~_* .  j                           NTOS 
Wavitis  ea 4#.fl   oaoftft   OW    US a%                                             -A
mvif    - 01_ _-.,o if                I
de_ a
mwq..  _1_,., I     ..t4W                           e    tl.z _.le
ar4 ~ ~ ~~~~i                if                            tanI.
_0 IF   I
_~~~~~~~~~~~~Sns                  t               Iuse                       ,,  ..
" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~- .                                     i.n
nubm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ m 
Cm"?~~~~~~~~~~~~es                         u                                                   i
4#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fi
C"fu" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~m.  ...-'Wn



CUKURO'
ISKE!
CHART 4                                                                 PRO
BOA"R OF AUDiT
DEPUTY MAYOR                                                      DEPUTY MAYOR
FOR                                                               FOR
PLANNING SERVICES                                                TECD1CAL SERVICES
URn   PA  INI                                    IfOWL NOUSING A     ENT AI                            Ol_
DIRECTOR                                     UKhUDISt; "PAeRS DIEtO                                AO ANCILLAR
SERVICES
I~ .! ~UI              It     £WISU*                    _w-                 _.
------ --- - --- - =t-_---        s
*1  oWi    ,1    1    S  >1                a"*w    >       cls      9tv       d-e~~~~~~f  w  f  o
9   ."    chw tfnZ           of$-                    so"'    w"l              tv <-tw    *ntw
0    ,   I _     I *        It
vlo.    I-    sw4**-l.'  'i       1'''' '1
t      otft  It           r       t
,It~,  contAtl" 4-w     t_-m-    ctll*Rll
tont    ti* t      4  wtl   4e
_ ~   ~~~~~~~  I _ t 
SOLID WASTt 9IAABENT       aOmD SEtVICtS       FIRE PIGITXIN       PAS, GAOElS           aml
DEPATrElNT DIRECTOR                              DIRECOR  O1RECTOR  AND CEMTRItS      cNwS1
OtRECTOR       Age IUI
chlo  .  CISOt*W   ch.0
If           _
rtw" ft~                            It ,,   .  ._. __   _     t _
s I.ru..ga .trl.wlf                        w 
.t                  mow -
t44~~~~~~~~~~~o.                cbc   zal.



-  100 -                                                                                                                         ANNEX-6
Page 11 of 15
PUBLIC OF TURKEY
RBAN DEVELOPNMET PROJECT
RUN MUNICIPALITY
MD ORGANIZATION CHART
MAY O
- RESEARCE AND PLA N  SERVICES mANA
DIRECTOR OF                       - DATA PROCESSIM  SERVICES MANAE
flOGRAMM1  PLANNING             -       - ARHM   LIBUMY, AMD
AND BUDGETIG                          DOCUMENTATION SERVICES MANAGER
(PROJECT COORDINATOR)                      PUICATION MAXAGER
DEPUTY MAYOR                                                                                          GEERAL DRECTOR
SOCIAL AND ADM IS'TR.ATE SERVCES                                                                                WATE  AND SANirATION
CORPORATION
ILIC     MI~mCIrIAi    C13UNSW¶   SOCIAL MMS   FINAMSCA       PUOISEL       L(a"        PtISIC      NOCuUImUI
%TtONS    POLICE     PRtCTION    CULTURAL       SERVICES        MD         A$PiRS      TRAS-   Ottmt 
ECTCI    ORECUR  EiNCIECICO     Ata DIRECTE             KEWOPHM                   OWIREI
vigtcm  019ECTOil     J         DEVELCTO
'7^ -aZ'ttcc                                             "m _c
,,t   ;'@         "          cs~~~~~40ft    ""W'  _
:   or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
eta             oro
- ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      R I                  I                                       . _        a Ic
a,~~~~ cl 'M'  °wb,r. ., 
VEHILESAM SUPPLY                                        II
l3~t   h#t.w    t
=t-,-.  -t9
U"3-tem   -4"
bSt.~ SW
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
ft-   --      -             -1
au~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ie   cb..  11, Urtaw
OttS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sit                                                         LawS       Law'
OZUECTOUt                                                                                                          I'_^
@~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ws                                                        hISWb5
b£l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~f 



CHART 5                                            CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CEYHAN MUNICIPALITY
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
MA 'OR
BOA"D OF AUDfr                              I
DEPUTY MAYOR                                                DEPUTY tAYOR                                       WATER AND SAAIN
FOR                                                         FOR                                         CORPORATION DRECTOR
PLANNIG AND TECHIDICAL                                     SOCIIAL AND ADMINTATIVE
SVICES                                                   SERVICES
_ ' . ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mxftl  ItD _1 SOlCU                     v lt    Ltst   voun    fam:    com  w=                   toom       .-F   Io
*c t                                                                                                                                   -       =gtl_tttWS       
Ds -,r  AM  iNKIM   olSb   SWIS sl    eva ctrier   10hItb ml           ncl.                      Brg   ~~n'  10.wo gml OWN        101b
Mm    ,atw      ,al   *C.a,_  ,ttW                                                                  ,         r
ml      Pl t    lwvten _c            C 1 -or          m           ".ttA Se   1 rvsa                                        w _ srd
.10mw ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s~~~~~~~~~~~k  o ieo
lor.r,,;S  a "  =- .
t~~~r P_W  IO7CU8C
cw | S  ab t S  a   of  c w of    chw at
Calles"ws  ofsa   cmltro   mrtestear1                                                                                                stfe
>>*5eq-~0           S W Y 0.   'b A   Ibpts_a .  _
clew'.    wu
<,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ , t^  tii,
tWPIdtllg  1061    'S'.tOgISO    *'.tStVOttW                                                      cM~~~~~~clw   of ebw or   s of    cern o  CMS     O
01'...ImQ1 
Lk f ct  fcs,o   ho  b co   a  . 
am  ead   .. ,  bweau"   ttw" 14410"IS06tt"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
contfwttw  SAW"Imm  a" cat~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 102 -
REPUBLIC OF TUREY                                          ANNEX  6
CUKUROVA URBAN DtVELOPHENT PRDJECT                                  Page  13  of  15
Tabl-g6: AOANA: PROPOSEO MANNING FOR REORGANIZED DEPARTMENTS
Area                  ceputy Secretary   Department   Section   Professional"   Support    Total
General          01Drector    Manager
Planninfi Servicesa                                                        --                                      1
Urban Planning o                                                      4               4           98         107
Gecekondu                                                 31          4               4           46         S1
Implementation and Control               1                 3           4              8           20          33
Sub-TOtal                             1                             1             1716
Technical Servicei                                                         -                                       1 
Solid Waste                                                            3               3          40          47
Road Services                            -                 1           4              12         137         354
Fire Fighting                            -1-                                           -         141         142
Parks. Gardens and Cemeteries                              1           -                         268         269
Construetion and Maintenance             -1                            3              4          266         274
5ulb-Total                            I                 1         tln             1 o         2vs2      0o7a
Social Services                              1                 -                                                   I 1
consumer Protect ion                                       I           5               -         57          563
social and Cultural Affairs                                1                   -                 108         109
Public Transportation                                       1        -                          283         284
Sub-Total                 _           1                                                                  957
Admin and F1nance Services                   l                 -           -                                     427
Financial Services. Procurement                             1           2              3          421         427
Admin Services                                             I          5               3          202         211
SuS-TtAl rv1s                                          2           7               A          623        639
Water and Sewerage                       1                 2          S              1S          465        491
PPB                                      1 l                          6              1S           10          32
GRAND TOTAL                    |         6                15         44              7S         3262       3402
(^)  Including Water and Sanitation General Director and PPS DirectOr.                       No. of existing staff: 3362
('^) Minimunm and only for reorganized departments.                                          No. of recruitnments:   --0
3402
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELONfENT PROJECT
Table 7:  MERSIN: PROPOSEO MANNENG FOR REORGANIZED DEPARTMENTS
Area                  Deputy Secretary   Department   Section   Professional"   Support    Total
General*        Director    Manager
ilann1no Services                            I-                                           -      -                1 
Urban Planning                           _                 1          4              13          57          75
Gecekondu                                                  1          6               -          20          27
Sub-Total                    _2         7__7___    _         _        _ 10        13._ .._ 103
Technical Services                           1                            _                            _ -
Slid Waste                              _                1           4               S         343         353
Road Services                            _                 1          S               8         108         122
Fire Fighting                                                                         -         104         IOS
Parks. Gardens and Cemeteries                                                         -         152         153
Building Const. & Maintenance                              1          2               2          S1          56
Vehicles Maintenance                     _                 1          2               2         150         1ss
Sub-Total                             1                S          13J._   17   ._  sea                   94.
Social Services                              1                                                                    I _
Police                                   -                1-                          -          68          69
Consumer Protection                      -                            4               -         164         159
Social and Cultural Affairs              -                 1          -               -          24          25
Bus Services                             -                            -               -         124         125
Sub-Total                             1                4           4         _370    1 37Z
Admip and Finance Services                   I                 -          -                                       I 1
Financial Services                       -                 1          3               4          92         100
Personnel & Manpower Devt.               -                1           2               4          27          34
Prc-urement                              -                 1          2               4           S          12
Cor.espondence                           -                 1          -               -          23          24
Public Relations                         -                1                                       S           6
Sub-Total                             1                5           7            l2 1.2.                    . .
water and Sewerage                       l                            5              16         238       . 260
pp8                                      l                            4              10           4          19
GRAND TOTAL                              6               17          43              68        1749        1883
(')  Including Water and Sanitat1in General Director and PPa Director.                     Ne. of ex1s'1r staff: 1850
(1") Minimum and only for reorganized departments.                                         No. of recruitments:  lase



-103 -                                                        ANNEX 6
Page 14 of 15
REPUBLIC Of TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN ODEVLOPMEMT PROdECT
Tkbla :  TARSUS: PROPOSDO MANING FOR REORGANt2ED DEPARTMENTS
Area                  Oeputy Secretary   Oepartment   Section   Professional- I Support    Total
General*         Director    Manager.
Planntng sarvies                                                                 1--
Urban Planning                                              1          4              10           16          31
GeCekondu                                                   1          2               S            3          11
Sub-Total                        _    1                 2                          is                  .-._ 19  4.
TechniCal Services                            1                                                                     1
Solid Waste                                                 1          4               4          231         240
Road Services                                               1          4               8           62          76
Fire Fighting                                               1          _                           20          21
Parks. Gardens and Cemteries                                                   -                   31          32
Building Const. &  1aintenance                              1          2               2            a          13
Vehicles Maintenance                                        1          2               2           40          45
Sub-Tptal                             1                 6          13              16          192   _    {"
Social and Admin SarvIseg                     1                 -           _                                       1
Correspondence                                           -                                          3           4
Public Relations                              1 -           l                                       2           I
Police                                                                                              2 _  34    35
Consumer Protection                                         1          4                           35          40
Social and Cultural Affairs                                                                         I l         2
Financial Services                       -                 l           3               4            3          11
Personnel and Manpower Oev.                                1           2               2           12          17
Public Transportation                                                  -                                        I
Procurement                                                l           2               4            2           9
Sub-Total   _1    I                                                                                 l  l  lI I  182 
Water and Sanitation                                                   4              12           30          47
|  PPB                                      1l                             4    J          8            2         151
GRUND TOTAL                              5                18          38    |         61          593         715
(V)  Including Water and Sanitation General Oirector and PPB Director.                        No. of existing staff: 690
C") Minimum and only for reorganized departments,                                             No. of recruitments:  __a
71s
REPUBLSC OF TURkEY
rUKOVA UnnM  DOVIELOPNT PROdECT
Table9: CEYMAN: PROPOSEO MAtNIG FOR REORGANIZED DEPARTMENTS
Area                  Oeputy Secretary   Department   Section   Professional'   Support    Total f
General,         Director    Manager
Planning and Technical Servieet               1                                                                      1
Urban Planning                                              l           S               _            4
Solid Waste                                                 1           4               -          70          7s
Municipal Works                                                         4               6           67          78
Fire Fighting                             _-                                            -           52         53 
Parks, Gardens and Cemeteries                               1           _                           39         40
Sub-Total                       _                                  13             6            232       257  I
Social and Ain Services                                                                       
Correspondance                                              1      I                                 4          S
Public Relations                                            1                                                   2;
Police                                   _                  l                           -           31         32
Consumer Protection                       _                             4               _          28          33
Social and Cultural Affairs                                 l 1         -                            l          2
Financial Services                                                                      4          31          39
Personnel and Manpower Oev.                                 1           2               2            e         10
Public Transportation                                       l-                          -           39         40
Procurement                                                 1           2               4            3         10  1
Sub-Total                             1                  a          11               L         143         174 
Water and Sanitation                      I                 _           3              10           24          38
| GRAND TOTAL2                                             14          27              26          399    |   4691
I')  Including Water and Sanitation General Director and PP8 Director.                         No. of existing staff: 460
(") Minimum and only for reorganized departments.                                              No. of recruitments:       9
469



- 104 -
REPUBLIC OE TURKEY                                   ANNEX 6
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                           Page 15 of 1
table lO: ISVENOERUN: PROPOSED MANNING FOR REORGANIZED DEPARTMENTS
Area                  Deputy Secretary   Department   Section   Professional"   Support    Total
General*         Director    Manager
plannina Services                            1                 _           _               _                 | 1
Urban Planning                           _                 1           4              10          25          40
Gecekondu                                _                 1           2               S           a          16
Sub-Total                             1                 2           i             iS           33          57
Techvical Services                           I                 -           -               -_          - 
Solid Waste                              _                 1           4              4          156         165
Road Services                            -                 1           S               8          91         105
Fire Fighting                            -                 1           _               -          47          48
Parks. Gardens and Cemeteries            -                 1           -               -          42          43
Construction and Maintenance             -                 1           2               2          24          29
Sub-Total                   |         1             _  6           13             16          473      ...il
Social and Admin Services                    1                 _           _               _           -           1
Correspon4ence                           -                 1           _              -           13          14
Public Relations                         _                 1           _              _            3           4
Police                                                     I           - _                        68          69
Consumer Protection                      _                 1           4               _         113         118
Social and Cultural Affairs              -                 1           -              -            8           9
Financial Services                       -                 1           3              4           40          48
Personnel and Manpower Dev.              -                 1           2               2          10          15
Public Transportation                    -                 1           -              -           99         100
Procurement                              -                 1           2              4            7          14
Sub-Total      I_la _1                                                            In 1I          -O ll  363    3. 5
Water and Sanitation                     1                 _           4              12          48          65
PP8                                      1                 -          4               8            3          16
GRAND TOTAL                              S                18          38             61          920        1042
C')  Including Water and Sanitation General Director and PPB Director.                        No. of existing staff: 10
(") Minimum and only for reorganized departments.                                             No. of recruitments:    -
10



- 105 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 11
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORPORATIONS
POLICY STATEMENT
Contents
Foreword
1. Preface
2. Objectives
3. Activities and Functions
4. Legal Status
5. Board of Directors
6.  Organization of the Limited Sirket
7. Relationship with the Municipality
8. Capital Structure
9, Financial Management
10. HUDC Activities on Behalf of Land Buyers
11. Marketing Strategy



- 106 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 11
FOREWORD
Housing and Urban Development Corporations (HUDCs) are newly
established entities which will manage the development of the Urban Expansion
Areas in Adana, Iskenderun, Mersin, and Tarsus. As new agencies, they do not
yet have policies and operating procedures.
The purpose of this statement is to set down the policies which will
guide the HUDC activities. The municipality, by action of its Assembly, shall
acknowledge and endorse the policies set forth in this document.
HUDC POLICY STATEMENT
1.       Preface.  In recognition of:
-    the pressure on the municipality to manage the growth in demand for
serviced land resulting from a rapidly expanding population;
-    the present uncontrolled growth of housing patterns in unserviced
areas and the need to provide more serviced land as a solution;
-    the need to adopt housing policies and develop new growth management
strategies and programs;
-    the opportunity created by mass housing programs which have allowed
the municipality to acquire land for future development and plan and
construct the required infrastructure in anticipation of future
growth;
-    the extra financial possibilities created by the Government's recent
activities on the solution of housing and urban development problems
through the Mass Housing Fund and the Public Participation
Administration and the enhanced municipal financial base;
-    the need to acquire land development management skills and expertise.
The municipality of                 has acquired land, in a designated
Urban Expansion area, for primarily housing development with supporting
commercial and employment generating activities. This is expected to provide
for housing demand for the next ten years or so, after which time, further
Urban Expansion areas may, or may not, be acquired for development.
The municipality of                 has formed, as a separate
operating entity, a Housing and Urban Development Corporation, henceforth
referred to as the HUDC.



- 107 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 11
2.       Objectives of the HUDC:
(a) to develop specified urban expansion sites which the municipality
acquires.
(b) to provide serviced land for residential development at prices which
are competitive and affordable, so that a reasonable proportion of
serviced plots are suited to the needs and financial abilities of
lower-income families.
(c) to make urban expansion development financially viable and
economically feasible by the achievement of full cost recovery.
3.       Activities and Functions
3.1      In general, the functions of HUDC involve the selection, planning,
servicing and subdivision of land in order to place legal serviced building
plots on the market at competitive and affordable prices.
3.2      In more specific terms the activities of the HUDC are as follows:
(a) to assess demand for housing and devise appropriate development
strategies;
(b) to acquire land for residential development in specified urban
expansion areas;
(c) to plan the development of sites in the context of the adjoining
areas and the town as a whole;
(d) to plan the installation of roads, water supply and distribution, and
sanitation on a site, and coordinate the planning of power
distribution and telecommunications;
(e)  to plan  .he allocation of land to non-housing uses (including
schools, health centers, other Central Government requirements and
social facilities, commercial, retail, and other employment
generating activities) and to work in liaison with the appropriate
Central Government agencies on the financing, design, construction,
and operation of the facilities;
(f)  to help arrange financial sources to fund development costs;
(g)  t, acquire and manage the necessary funds and to operate appropriate
financial planning, budgeting, accounting, auditing and cost recovery
systems;
(h) to formulate development briefs and award contracts for the design
and construction of on-site infrastructure;
(i) to supervise the construction and installation of on-site
infrastructure;



- 108 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 11
(j)  to arrange coordination of off-site infrastructure construction to
the site, in conjunction with the municipality and other
infrastructure agencies, and ensure that it is provided in line with
the site development program;
(k)  to market and sell developed land to housing developers, housing
cooperatives and individual house builders, as well as to commercial
business and industrial users;
(1) to advise and assist land purchasers in finding credit facilities
external to HUDC;
(m)  to support land buyers by providing advice on the design of low-cost
houses, building materials and improved building techniques,
including through maintaining a register of contractors who can
construct houses economically and according to approved standards and
to whom land purchasers can be referred.
(n) to promote construction of houses by private developers.
3.3      The functions shall not include, among other activities inconsistent
with the above operations and functions:
(a) building speculative (i.e, not presold) housing;1'
(b)  making long-term real estate investments and/or leasing of houses or
commercial building on a long-term investment basis;
(c) operating or investing in other businesses or commercial enterprises;
if the municipality decides to establish a firm to build houses, this
will be a separate sirket;
(d) entering into development of land on other sites, until World Bank
funded Urban Expansion Area development loans are repaid by HUDC,
except as may be approved by the lenders and the World Bank;
(e) extension of credit for house or land purchase. The HWUDC may accept
advance payments, but sales will only be accounted for and title
transferred when the full purchase price is paid.
4.       Legal Status.
4.1      The Limited Sirket form has been selected as the legal entity under
which the HUDC will operate.
1/ The HUDC will not build houses for sale later. It may undertake housing
construction on a power of attorney basis for certain families if the
Printout cancelled by operator.



- 109 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 11
4.2      As a sirket, the HUDC will operate under the Turkish Commercial
Code. All powers and rights under the code will be recognized. The Board of
Directors will operate the sirket as provided in the by-laws of the Sirket.
4.3      The amount of capital may be expanded by acceptance of all of other
shareholders.
4.4      Any change in legal form shall be approved by two thirds of the
shareholders or as prescribed in the commercial code.
4.5      The voluntary disposition in whole or in part of the sirket may take
place either by liquidation of the corporation or by sale of the capital
shares as may be appropriate at the time. In the latter event, it is assumed
that it will continue as an operating entity. In either event, such
disposition, in whole or in part, shall not take place without approval of the
Iller Bank and the World Bank while any amount of the of the proceeds of the
World Bank loan to the municipality is still to be repaid.
5.       Board of Directors
5.1      The Board of Directors will be charged with the authority and
responsibility of managing the sirket. The board and a chairman will be
elected at an annual meeting by the shareholders. The board will establish
the strategies and operating policies of the sirket. It will delegate to a
chief executive officer the authority and responsibility to manage the company.
5.2      The shareholders at each annual meeting shall elect between five and
seven directors to serve for one year or until successors are elected. A
director is not required to be a shareholder and may be elected based on
business expertise and management expertise.
5.3      The board shall appoint the chief executive officer and clearly
specify his authority and responsibility. The other management staff will be
appointed by the board upon the recommendation of the chief executive officer.
6.       Organization of the Limited Sirket
6.1      A chief executive officer will manage the sirket.  He will appoint
such other core management staff as may be agreed upon by the board. The
chief executive will have the authority to operate the company within the
policies and fiscal control of the board.
6.2      Core management posts will consist of a Marketing Manager,
Engineering Manager, Planning/Architecture Manager, and a Finance
Administration Manager. The IIUDC shall operate with the smallest number
practical of permanent staff. Technical assistance and consultancy will be
used to supplement or provide the planning, engineering, marketing, and
finance skills required.



- 110 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 11
7.       Relationship with the Municipality
7.1      The municipality has a role as shareholder and provider of land,
planning approvals, off-site infrastructure and loans. This relationship
between the HUDC and the municipality will be based on a protocol which
establishes a contractual agreement between the two parties for each p.^oject
or development. The protocol for the project in which the World Bank is
participating shall include the following provisions:
(a) The municipality will purchase and hold the land under the terms of
the loan with the Development Support Fund. The land will be
developed by the HUDC in amounts needed for each development phase.
(b)  Under a sales agreement with the HUDC, the land will be transferred
to a designee of the HUDC when it sells the plots or tracts.
(c) The price of land paid to the municipality upon the transfer of the
land to the designee will recognize the replacement value of the land
or at least the cost of the land at the time of purchase inflated by
the wholesale price index to the date of transfer plus at least a 2
percent annual return on the inflated amount.
(d) Title will remain in the municipality until payment in full is made
by HUDC.
(e) Only the developable land will be sold and the remainder will be held
and maintained by the municipality.
(f) The municipality, in consideration of an agreed land contribution to
off-site infrastructure costs, which may be included in the land
price over and above the inflation adjustment mentioned in (c) above,
will agree to bring the necessary infrastructure to the site. A
binding contract relating to the timely provision of the off-site
infrastructure shall be concluded between the HUDC and the
municipality for each site, prior to the HUDC commencing any on-site
development for that site. The off-site infrastructure services will
be provided by the municipality as required by the site development
program(s). All municipal services will be initiated to correspond
to development timetable.
(g) The municipality will take over, operate and maintain on-site
infrastructure and public open space which elsewhere is normally a
municipality responsibility;
(h) The municipality will approve the context, structure and parcellation
plans, design standards, preliminary and final designs;
(i) The municipality will approve construction and occupation permits as
required;
(j) The municipality will be acting as an intermediary in the development
loan to the HUDC, and the municipality and the HUDC shall be jointly
and severally responsible for the repayment of the development loan;
and



- Ill -
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 11
(k) The development loan shall be repaid by the HUDC at least
proportionate to sales, so that the loan is fully repaid once the
sales program is complete.
8.       Capital Structure
8.1      The shareholders shall provide the HUDC with sufficient paid-in
equity so that paid-in equity, including retained earnings and reserves, is at
least equal to two thirds of the total of all HUDC debt.
8.2      Sufficient fully paid-in capital shall be provided to cover sums
required for working capital needs (at least the first half-year's operating
expenses) and to maintain an average ratio of specified current assets to
current liabilities of at least 0.66. For this purpose,
(a)  specified current assets shall comprise cash, receivables expected to
be realized within one year or less, and investments capable of being
liquidated within one year or less. (Stocks of materials, land, or
unused plots, work in progress, and subscribed but unpaid capital
shall be excluded from the above as will be any receivables in
respect of sales or deposit arrangements.)
(b)  Current liabilities shall be all liabilities of the HUDC expected due
within one year or less, including term loan repayments falling due
within that period and all prepayments or deposits on sales.
9.       Financial Management
9.1      The following financial policies will be adopted by the HUDC:
9.2      Land Development:
(a) Every effort shall be made to ensure that the amount of
infrastructure under construction at onie time shall not normally
exceed that necessary for a one-year forward program of sales except
for investment in primary infrastructure.
(b) All investments in infrastructure shall be the subject of approval of
the board.
(c) Prior to each new phase of development, the HUDC shall undertake an
appraisal to ensure the feasibility of its proposed investment plan.
This feasibility study shall, inter alia, incorporate an assessment
of the sensitivity of the sales program to the provision to off-site
infrastructure and on-site social facilities and shall indicate all
the necessary activities and assign responsibilities to ensure their
timely provision. It shall be presented to the board and to lenders.



- 112 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 11
9.3      Loan Arrangements:
(a) The HUDC may pledge any assets which it owns as collateral for loans.
(b) All loan credit arrangements will require approval of the board; and
by the municipality where it is a lender, guarantor, or its assets
are pledged.
(c) No loan arrangement that would require an addition to fully paid-in
equity shall be entered without first increasing the paid-in equity.
(d) The HUDC may seek credit from the municipality, Iller Bank, Emlak
Kredi Bank, or any other banking or commercial lending source both
foreign and local. In seeking loans for capital investment, it shall
demonstrate the reasonable viability of all such investment including
the ability to service debt on all such loans.
(e) The municipality may act as guarantor for liabilities contracted by
the HTJDC.
9.4      Pricing:
The pricing of HUDC products shall be set so as to achieve on
average, at least full cost recovery which means, to recover, at the time of
sale:
(a)  the cost of the land sold including the cost of land required for
common facilities, based upon the replacement cost of the land at the
time of sale, or at least the original cost of the land to the
municipality plus revaluation by the wholesale price index plus 2
percent annually on the revalued price from the date of purchase to
the date of sale.
(b) the onsite infrastructure costs required to service fully the site
including the share of costs of infrastructure for social or public
facilities which are not paid for by the public entities responsible
plus revaluation by the wholesale price index from the date of
payment for the infrastructure to the date of sale.
(c) the agreed proportion of the off-site infrastructure costs, plus
revaluation by the wholesale' price index from the date of payment for
the infrastructure to the date of sale; and
(d) all overhead costs including interest payments, any losses on loans
held in foreign exchange, and any other expenses.
9.5      Dividends
The payment of dividends shall only be paid out of profits as
authorized by the board.



- 113 -
ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 11
9.6      Financial Reports, Accounting, and Audit
9.6.1    Each year, the board shall receive a three to five year financial
plan in the form of income and expenditure statements, flow of funds
statements and balance sheets three months prior to the beginning of the
financial year with the first-year budget which it will approve. The annual
profit plan shall include the development program based upon an integrated
program of land acquisition by the municipality, on-site investment by the
HUDC, completion of assets for sale and a program of sales supported by market
analyses.
9.6.2    At least quarterly, the board shall receive financial reports which
will include income and expenditure statement, a flow of funds statement, and
a balance sheet.
9.6.3    Accounts for the HUDC will be maintained on a consistent basis and in
accordance with the requirements of Turkish legislation, and will provide, as
necessary, further information of the type and in the form required to meet
internationally accepted accounting standards for commercial undertakings.
The accounting statements to be prepared will include an income and
expenditure statement, a sources and applications of funds statement, and a
balance sheet, each of which will allow for the effects of inflation upon
asset usage and replacement.
9.6.4    The accounts will adopt the convention that profits on disposals are
not recognized until completion of the servicing of the land and its sale.
Deposits and presales will only be recognized to the extent that cash has been
deposited with HUDC. The financial statements will include in detail and in
total information about capital expenditure.
9.6.5    Memorandum records will be maintained in order to establish whether
the HUDC is meeting the requirements relating to limiting its invo vement in
housing construction, in neeting its cost recovery, financial and marketing
targets and such other monitoring information as is required.
9.6.6    The accounts and memorandum records of the HUDC will be audited
annually by an independent, qualified, and well-established audit firm
appointed by the shareholders at the annual general meeting of the HUDC. The
audit shall apply auditing standards as prescribed by Turkish laws and, as
necessary, further audit shall be undertaken to enable the auditor to express
an opinion as to whether or not the accounting statements show a true and fair
view of the financial performance and status of the HUDC.
9.6.7    Audited accounts, including an audit certificate shall be prepared
for the HUDC shareholders and a copy shall be provided to all lenders within
three months of the HUDC financial year end. An audit management letter shall
be prepared, commenting, inter alia, upon the efficiency and effectiveness of
the HUDC's financial systems and financial management. This report shall be
sent to the board of the HUDC and a copy forwarded to the shareholders and
lesiders.
9.6.8    The HUDC will prepare and maintain a set of financial regulations
governing all aspects of its financial dealings.



- 114 -
ANNEX 7
Page 10 of 11
10.      HUDC Activities on Behalf of Land Buyers
10.1     The HUDC may act with power of attorney on behalf of low-income
families to arrange mortgage finance for housing construction.
10.2     If requested by them, the HUDC may also act with power of attorney on
the behalf of low-income families to coordinate superstructure development.
10.3     Before acting under a power of attorney, as described above, the HUDC
shall give written notice to the individuals and to any contractor receiving
funds that the HUDC is acting only in an administrative role on behalf of the
individuals and is not liable in any way to failure of the individuals to make
payment to the contractor or fai4ure of any lender to make payment to the
individuals under a loan commitment nor is the HUDC liable to the individual
for any failure of the contractor.
10.4     To minimize risks to the HUDC, the HUDC shall not enter any building
agreement on behalf of its clients unless the total value of such agreement is
less than or equal to the value of funds provided by the clients (plus the
value of confirmed mortgages arranged in their name). The HUDC will make no
payments before it has collected the funds and may not assume any liabilities
on behalf of the home purchaser.
10.5     On each occasion the HUDC takes powers of attorney to coordinate
housing construction the HUDC shall open and operate a separate account to
record all financial transactions associated with that business.
11.      Marketing Strategy
11.1     The marketing strategy will be based on sufficient analysis and
market tests to estimate as realistically as possible the demand for housing
from which the demand for land is derived.
11.2     The supply of serviced land will be based on the population
distribution preferences and demand. The supply will be geared to the sales
absorption rate and close control will be maintained to prevent an oversupply
of plots and infrastructure development.
11.3     The HUDC shall arrange the supply of plots of a suitable size and
with suitable infrastructure to achieve its objective of making at least 50
percent of the land available to, and affordable by, families in the lower
half of the income distribution. (Household income of TL 65,000 per month in
prices of December, 1985). This objective is achieved if individual plots of
land are provided at cost of TL 640,000 per unit or less in December 1985
prices). At least one half of the land aimed at low-income families under the
above aefinition will be sold as serviced plots to individual families on
which they may arrange for construction of a dwelling (by themselves or by
contractors, with or without the HUDC).



- 115 -
ANNEX 7
Page 11 of 11
11.4     The sale of serviced Duilding land will be directed to individual
home builders, local small builders, and cooperatives as well as large
regional and national building developers.
11.5     Sales to low-income groups will exclude purchase of more than one
unit by each family.
11.6     HUDC will carry out periodic surveys of households which have settled
in an area to 3asess the success cf the HUDC in reaching the low-income
groups. It will revise its marketing and its product as required to achieve
its targets in the light of experience.



- 116 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CUKUROVA MUNICIPALITIES TRAWING ASSOCIATION FINANCES
Table 1 shows the financial situation of CMTA. Receipts from
municipalities and WSDs are calculated as 0.5 percent of their previous years'
budgets. Cash expenses include costs of operations, including rents, and
salaries of full time instructors. Technical assistance and equipment to be
financed under the project are included in investment expenditures. The
proceeds of the World Bank loan are furnished on a grant basis. These grants
would come to about TL ..0 billion over the project period, compared with
municipalities' contributions of TL 5.7 billion. Loans from the Iller Bank
(16% interest, repayable over 15 years) cover any shortfall of project
investment expenditures not financed by operating systems or the World Bank
Loan. The overall surpluses shown for 1991 and following years will not be
realized if the CMTA decides, as expected, to construct permanent facilities
in the early 1990's.
Table 1: CMTA FINANCIAL SITUATION
(in TL million)
1987  1988  .1989  1990  I91   192l  1li  t9I9        195   987-21
R-eceipts-fraQm:
municipalities          141   221   392   450   531   613   680   789   947   3,817
WSDs                                                                        84 _22   306   Z7 313   Iii   22    278   337   L.903
Total Receipts         183   320   697   718   844   918   973 1,067 1,284   5,720
Operatina Exoenditures:
Cash Expenses          144   288   401   526   626   737   855   992 1,151   4,569
Debt Service (Iller Bank) 12    69    59   5 _U  ..2   _5    _§2   -5       59  4-5
Total                   175   356   460   585   604   796   914 1,051  1,210   5,021
Investment Expenditures    659   862   472   189     3     1      2     2     2   2,189
Financed by:                                             12     5       6    7       9
Recurrent Balance        8    36   237   133   160   122    59    16    74         698
IBRO Loan              299   391   214    86       1                               991
IS Loan                352   507    21      0                                    1,147
Balance C/F              0      0     0    30   188   309   366   380   453
NB - Some totals do not add due to rounding.



- 117 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 11
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT REVIEW, IMPLEMENTATION, AND MONrIORING UNIT
1.       Project components to be executed by the municipalities and their
subsidiary agencies will be financed through the Cukurova Project Account
(CPA) in the Iller Bank. The CPA will be the channel for all project loan
funds, including the appropriate proportion of the World Bank loan and loans
from Iller Bank, Government, Development Support Fund, and other official
sources. The CPA will also be the channel for loan funds for projects outside
the scope of the World Bank project which are being executed by or for project
municipalities or their subsidiary entities during the Bank project period,
including funds for ongoing Iller Bank works.
2.       The CPA will be administered by the Project Review Implementation and
Monitoring Unit (PRIMU) in Iller Bank which will b. responsible for allocating
resources, monitoring project implementation, ensuring that procurement of all
items financed by World Bank funds is in accordance with World Bank
procurement guidelires, and reporting on the project to the Government and the
Bankt.
Resource Allocation
3.       PRIIJ's major function is to allocate resources Lz' municipalities
based on an assessment of their creditworthiness, the viability of the
particular schemes for which the funds would be lent, and adequate performance
of borrowers in achieving project objectives.
4.       The review of creditworthiness will be based upon review-of
three-year financial plans to be prepared and submitted annually, at least
three months before the beginning of the financial year, by each project
municipality and its subsidiary entities (WSDs, ASKI, HUDCs) for which loan
finance will be sought or for which loans are outstanding. In general, these
plans will show intended investments by project, forecasts of revenues and
operating expenses (hence finance from internal sources), and proposed finance
from other sources. The plans will include:
(a) information on past years' performance, and revised estimates for the
current year, the budget year, and two future years; full-year
effects will be shown for items on which only past year data are
available; variations from previously agreed plans will be shown, and
reasons given, including reference to physical measures (such as
changes in number of staff), together with an indication of the
consequences of these variations;



- 118 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 11
(b) details of income and expenditure by major source or program, showing
separately recurrent and capital transactions; these analyses will
show the recurrent consequences of each scheme, separating operating
expenses from debt service;
(c) information required to illustrate achievement of key objectives
(e.g., cost recovery) and to identify clearly those actions required
and intended to achieve the forecasts (e.g., timing and amount of
changes in tariffs or tax rates underlining income forecasts),
includiag progress on implementation of the improvements in financial
management;
(d) separate information on actual and forecast performance as measured
by agreed performance indicators (e.g., level of recurrent
expenditures, recurrent surplus as a proportion of income and as a
proportion of capital expenditures, debt service forecast separately
for subsidiary entities, including service to Iller Bank and to other
lenders, per capita receipts and expenditures); and
(e) actuals and forecasts of balance sheet items, including (i) required
increases in working capital, (ii) debtors, arrears in income
collection, creditors, (iii) information on subsidiary entities which
may affect the municipalities' financial situation.
5.       In reviewing the financial plans, PRIMU will pay special attention to:
(a) success of the municipality or entity in meeting previously agreed
objectives;
(b) the relation between proposed changes in receipts and costs and
indicators such as (i) past changes in analogous magnitudes in this
city and cop,arable cities, (ii) current rates of inflation, growth
of population, and growth of tax bases;
(c) balance in planning (avoiding excessive resources to particular
activities);
(d) in the case of the HUDCs, restricting the debt equity ratio to a
level less than 1.5, and the acid test ratio to more than 0.66; and
(e) the implications of the plans for continued creditworthiness of the
municipality, as judged by debt service of the municipality and its
subsidiary entities not rising above 35 percent of recurrent
receipts, or above the amount of the recurrent Government grant to
the municipality (now set at 6 percent of Government taxes, allocated
on the basis of population).
6.       The plan review shall be concluded in time to enable municipalities
to finalize their budgets for the following financial year. The PRIMU will
assist municipalities and municipal entities by providing them with guidelines
for the preparation of financial plans and by reviewing earlier drafts when
these are provided.



- 119 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 11
7.       Following the review of the financial plan, PRIMU will agree lending
targets with each municipality (and its subsidiary entities) for the coming
financial year for schemes contained within the financial plan. Funding
priority will be: (a) project components/schemes that are already under way
and that are be-ag implemented according to agreed timing and cost schedules;
(b) project components/schemes that are under way but that cannot be completed
to minimum satisfactory standards without additional funds, whether due to
volume or price variations; and (c) starts on new project components/schemes
which meet appraisal criteria (paras. 8 to 10 below), ranked according to the
extent they contribute to overall project objectives. (When municipalities
are competing for loan sanctions within the total loan finance available for
Cukurova, PRIMU will reflect in its allocation the past performance of
municipalities in implementing project components, and favor those
municipalities which can demonstrate the best performance in accordance with
approved plans and agreed performance criteria.)
8.       PRIMU's appraisal of subprojects on which disbursements will be made
under the project will be based on criteria to be agreed with the World Bank.
In general, these criteria will incorporate an analysis of the schemes'
technical, financial, and economic viability. For those components which have
been appraised in detail by the Bank, appraisal will consist largely of
ensuring that the schemes as presented are consistent with the plans appraised
by the Bank.
9.       PRIMU/Iller Bank will only approve investments under the project
after:
(a) appointment of the Project Coordinator in the municipality concerned;
(b) formal establishment, and appointment of the directors of the WSDs
(ASKI) and of the units charged with upgrading and housing
management, solid waste management, and roads (in respect of
approvals of investments for those components);
(c) formal approval by municipalities of the policy statement on HUDCs
and of the agreement between the municipality and the HUDC (in
respect of HUDC investments); and
(d) financial performance by the WSD (ASKI) consistent with its financial
objectives (as described in the Project Agreement with the World
Bank) during the current year (in respect of water and sanitation
investments).
10.      In all cases, PRIMU will appraise only on the basis of designs which
are at least at the preliminary design stage (costs within 20 percent of final
estimates). Municipalities will be responsible for submitting all necessary
information on schemes to enable PRIMU appraisal. In addition, the PRIMU will
take account of the following specific criteria for different components.
(a) Urban Expansion Areas. The main criterion in appraising future
tranches of UEAs will be consistency of the proposal with the
financial and social objectives set out in the HUDC policy statement,
and judgments will take account of experience of HUDCs in achieving
those criteria in earlier investments.



- 120 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 11
(b) Upgrading and Housing Management. The principal appraisal criteria
are that the municipality will be able to recover costs of
investments proposed, from improvement charges, connection fees,
receipts from legalization of planning status of the plots concerned,
and any other charges which may be introduced in the future, and that
these charges are affordable to residents of the areas concerned.
Based on estimates available to the World Bank appraisal mission,
this criterion will be met in most instances if 75 percent of the
plots have buildings on them, and if the distances from serviced
areas to trunk networks do not exceed 1 km. This criterion may be
used in lieu of an explicit analysis pending availability of better
information.
(c) Water and Sanitation Components. The principal water and sanitation
components requiring appraisal are extensions of secondary and
tertiary networks in specific neighborhoods. The main criterion is
to ensure that least cost solutions have been adopted, and that there
is a reasonable density of households to be served (for tertiary
networks, in particular).
(d) Road Components. All schemes should be accompanied by traffic
forecasts, and schemes estimated to cost more than US$1 million
equivalent should be shown to yield a first-year economic rate of
return of 10 percent or more.
11.      PRIMU will not approve award of contracts for civil works before
supervision consultants have been appointed by the entity concerned.
Staffing
12.      The overall control and direction of the PRIMNU is in the hands of the
project director. Proposed staffing is set out in table 1. Because of the
difficulty in securing appropriate qualified and experienced staff on regular
terms, the Iller Bank will engage most PRIMU staff on consultancy terms.
Responsibilities of staff are summarized in attachment 1.
PRIMU Cost Recovery
13.      On the assumption that CPA receives all interest receipts associated
with Iller Bank lending to the project municipalities during the project
period, its overhead costs will be comfortably covered from this source from
1988 onwards (table 2). This calculation assumes zero cost of funds, in
accordance with the existing situation in which Iller Bank operations are
financed almost entirely by capital and noninterest earning deposits.



- 121 -                                            ANNEX 9
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                                      Page 5 of 11
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: FORECASTS OF PROFESSIONAL STAFF AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR PRIMU
Professional Staff Years
1987    1988    1989    1990       1991      1992      1993      1994
A. Professional Staff
Director                 3/4        1        1       1         1         1       1/2     1/2
Deputy                   1/2        1        1       1         1         1         1       1
Engineers A/           11/2         4        4       4         4         4         2       2
Planner                  1/2        1        1       1         1         1       1/2      --
Financial Analyst          1        3        3       3         3         3         2       2
Economist                1/2        1        1       1         1         1       1/4     1/4
Computer Analyst            1   1 1/2   1 1/2   1 1/2    1 1/2    1 1/2            1        1
Accountant                 2        2        2       2         2         2      -_         2
Subtotal               7 4  14 14 1/2   14 1/2   14 l/2    9 114   8 7/5
B. Technical Assistance
Engineering A/             2   2 1/2       1/6    1/12      1/12
Financial Analysis          1       1      1/6    1/12      1/12
Economics                1/2      -        _
Subtotal              3L1/2   3 1/2       1LI      J6l       1/Li
C. Financial TA to
Municipalities B
Foreign                                    1/2     1/2
Local                       I       I            I --            
Subtotal                   I        1  1JJl     1 1 2        1         1
0. GRANOTOTAL            L2_Jz  ____1, lfiJ.L.               1I&2 Ls=1.l SlLi"    LZ5
A/  Includes engineers qualified and experienced in municipal, water and
sanitary engineering, roads, traffic and transport, and procurement.
k/ To assist with and coordinate the program for upgrading municipal
accounting and financial management.
Tablg 2:  PRITU EXPENDITURES AND INTEREST RECEIPTS
Total
1928    12M       1989      1990     1991      1m        1993   I99      1987- M
----------------------------------(TL million)----------------------------
Interest Receipts on
IB Loans A- to
project municipalities   787   4,720   10,045   13,995   17.005   18,669   19,054   19,247   103,521
PRIMU Expenses              91O   1197    1.046    1.211    1314           4U 2122                     8.845
Net Income from
Project                -123   3.523    8,999   12,784   15,691   17,248   18,145   18,409    94,676
Loans Outstandings/      9,833  49,264   76,884   99,386  115.235  120.912  120.748  124,007
A/  Assumes that interest payments commnence during year loan is made.
k/ Includes loans for "non-project" investments in future years, but excludes existing loans to
prfiOat mun1cn1Din t1es-



- 122 -
ANNEX 9
Attachment
Page 6 of 11
The responsibilities of various PRIMU staff will be as follows:
A. PROJECT DIRECTOR
1. Management of PRIMU staff, including recruitment and training.
2. Selection and recruitment of necessary consultants.
3. Execution and authorization of project-related documents where this
function cannot be delegated, including those relating to contracting
and funds disbursement.
4. Liaison with IB, Development Support Fund, Government departments, WB
and Municipalities.
B. DEPUTY PROJECT DIRECTOR
(a) deputize for and assist Project Director, as appropriate.
(b) have specific responsibility for recruitment and management of
technical assistance personnel for PRIMU and for suppnrt of
project executing entities.
C.  PLANNERS AND ENGINEERS
1. Technical Studies:
(a) draft or review TORs prepared by municipal project entities.
(b) review:
(i) inception reports;
(ii) interim reports;
(iii)  final reports; and
(iv) the suitability of plans, layouts and designs.
(c) monitor and supervise progress of the studies and (as
appropriate) implementation of recommendations.
2. Project Physical Components
(a) review the overall magnitude and spatial context within which
component is intended;
(b) review:
(i) feasibility reports;
(ii) final designs; and
(iii) contract and procurement documents.



- 123 -
ANNEX 9
Attachment
Page 7 of 11
(c) ensure that satisfactory arrangements exist for review and
approval of interim and final certificates, authorizing payment
on civil works, mechanical and electrical and building contracts.
(d) ensure satisfactory administrative arrangements exist for
procurement of works, goods and services.
(e) ensure that proposed project and/or components are technically
feasible and represent affordable standards at the least economic
cost solution to problems.
(f) review the timing, phasing and general realism of implementation
schedules, including reference to timely budgetary provision.
(g) ensure that project and/or project component is of appropriate
priority in the spatial context of the town or community being
served.
(h). ensure that adequate provision is made for the execution of
complementary works, including coordination with other executing
entities.
(i) ensure that the executing entity has or will have adequate
technical and administrative implementation capacity, including
the reliability of the processes, materials, equipment and
technical systems to be used.
(j) ensure that adequate arrangements have been made regarding land
acquisition, planning approval and environmental safeguards.
(k) visit project sites and facilities before, during and after
implementation to expedite and authenticate project.
(1) prepare and update various computer models in cooperation with
project implementing entities to monitor project progress and
costs.
(m) provide and/or arrange appropriate advice, technical assistance
and training to personnel and consultants of project implementing
entities.
(n) assist project entities to recruit and manage consultants for the
design, implementation and supervision of project components.



- 124 -
ANNEX 9
Attachment
Page 8 of 11
D. FINANCIAL ANALYSTS
1. Financial and Management Studies:
(a) draft or review TORs for municipal project entities.
(b) review:
(i) inception reports;
(ii) interim reports; and
(iii) final reports.
(c) monitor and supervise progress of the studies and (as
appropriate) implementation of recommendations.
2. Project Physical Components:
(a) ensure that adequate financial plan exists to finance the project
component and complementary components.
(b) ensure that the financing plan provides for the financing of
interest during construction/implementation and necessary
increases in working capital.
(c) review financial forecasts for the implementing entity, to
examine the expected incremental effects of the project and
complementary components upon the financial performance and
position of the entity as a whole with particular reference to
incremental debt service (including foreign exchange adjustments)
and operating costs.
(d) based upon the examination in (c), exercise judgement as to
whether the project is affordable to the implementing entity
and/or whether feasible changes in operational, charging and
taxing practices can ensure affordability.
(e) based upon the examination in (c) and irrespective of the effects
of the project, exercise judgement as to whether the entity is
following sound financial management and performance practices,
consistent with reasonable expectations for entities of similar
size and type.
(f) in general, make recommendations and judgements for improved
financial management and performance.



- 125 -
ANNEX 9
Attachment
Page 9 of 11
(g) examine pricing and taxation policies and practices and make
recommendations for appropriate changes.
(h) review, in particular, and make recommendations for improvements
in:
(i) accounting systems;
(ii)  billing and collection;
(iii) management information systems;
(iv) budgeting and budgetary control;
(v) audit arrangements; and
(vi) financial reporting.
(i) provide or arrange appropriate advice, technical assistance and
training to personnel and consultants of project implementing
entities.
(j) assist project entities in the recruitment of financial and
management consultants, as appropriate.
E. ECONOMIST
1. Overall economic planning strategy:
(a) work with planners and/or engineers in their review of
spacial/sectoral context of project preparation to ensure
adeqt.ate attention is given to:
(i) economic planning;
(ii) social cost/benefit analysis; and
(iii) demographic considerations.
(b) assist with prioritization of project components, within overall
investment programs of municipal project entities.
2. Project Physical Components:
(a)  review and/or carry out economic analysis dependent upon project
component type, e.g.:
(i) economic rate of return analysis;
(ii) cost/benefit analysis;
(iii) average incremertal cost analysis; and
(iv) least cost feasible solution a,alysis.



- 126 -
ANNEX 9
Attachment
Page 10 of 11
(b) work with financial analyst to review or propose changes in
pricing and/or taxation policies and practices.
(c) assist definition and analysis of surveys to monitor project
impacts, including assessment of beneficiary groups, and size of
benefits achieved.
(d) review marketing strategies of HUDCs.
F. ACCOUNTANTS
(a) design and establish accounting system for CPA.
(b) arrange for disbursement and reimbursement for project funds,
including those from World Bank.
(c) closely monitor the effects of changes in rates of exchange
between TL and foreign currencies, to ensure that these are (as
appropriate) passed on to project entities.
(d) prepare reimbursement requests and other documents required by WB
and/or any other foreign lenders.
(e) generally manage the debt and investment of the CPF, including
(to the extent authorized by law) provision of cover for exposed
foreign exchange risks.
(f) review the financial aspects of civil works and procurement
contracts and forward copies, as appropriate, to WB.
(g)  prepare and submit to government, WB and project entities,
periodic (quarterly) financial statements.
(h) arrange for the annual audit of financial statements and for the
periodic audit of statements of expenditure.
(i) prepare loan amortization tables for project entities - updating
these as required for foreign exchange adjustments.
(j) promptly collect periodic principal and interest payments from
project entities and pay (as appropriate) principal and interest
payments to lenders.



- 127 -
ANNEX 9
Attachment
Page 11 of 11
G. COMPUTER SPECIALIST
1. Project Physical Components
(a) prepare, improve, maintain and update various computer models for
financial analysis - in cooperation with financial analysts.
2. CPA Accounting
(a) assist with design and implementation of computerized accounting
system for CPA.
(b) prepare, maintain and update various computer models to monitor,
e.g.:
(i) sroject/fund cash flows;
(ii) debL amortization tables; and
(iii) foreign exchange adjustments.
3. Project Entities
(a) monitor performance of project entities in their use of computers
and recommend necessary assistance.
4. PRIMU
(a) provide general computer support on:
(i) personnel and administration;
(ii) office equipment and materials; and
(iii) purchasing, billing and general bookkeeping.
H.  SUPPORT STAFF
In addition to the above specialists, a small number of support staff
will be necessary for secretarial and other office duties. This staff will
include:
(a) secretaryftelephonist;
(b) typists;
(c) drivers - to facilitate visits to project entities; and
(d) general office assistant and messenger.



- 128 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 19
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
1.       This annex deals with general points arising from the financial
forecasts for municipalities and their recurrent and capital receipts and
expenditures up to 1995. Particular emphasis is placed upon the financing of
investment programs, 1987-94, which include the municipal components of the
project. The section is introduced by a summary of municipal investments and
their financing, paying attention to whether or not municipalities will
require more than their fair share of national loan finance. The forecasts
are affected by two general considerations: the conservative assumptions made
when projecting future income from local revenues, and the basis of judgements
on muhicipalities' ability to afford the proposed work program.  After
reviewing these factors and the issues which arise on a town by town basis,
the forecasts are shown, town by town, and detailed assumptions underlying the
forecasts are given.
Summary of Municipal Investment
2.       Table 1 illustrates the impact of the project on the overall
investment programs of the municipalities. The project represents 41 percent
of direct municipal investment during the 1987-94 period. When
project-related equity investments in WSD and HUDC are taken into
consideration, however, the project accounts for the majority of the
medium-term investment program in Cukurova municipalities. Table I also
illustrates that, on the basis of the town financial forecasts, almost two
thirds of the overall investment program is financed by contributions from
current account operating surplus. Table 2 summarizes recurrent accounts for
1982, 1986, and 1995 and for the municipalities during the 1987-94 period.
Loan finance funds approximately 30 percent of the overall program, and
approximately 50 percent IBRD and 50 percent national loans.
Fair Shares Analysis
3.       Table 3 compares the national loan finance required by the program of
investment in Cukurova with the allocation due to the area on the basis of
receiving its "fair share" of Iller Bank and Municipal Fund investment
resources. Fair shares are set equal to 6 percent of the national total,
which is the share of project municipalities in the national total urban
population. Based upon a real growth of national loan funds of 5 percent p.a.



- 129 -                                     ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 19
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IahJr_J.:  FINANCING PLAN FOR MUNICIPALITIES. 1987-94
Percentaae of Investments, in Constant Prices
Ada   Merstn   Tars        CgyhaI   Iskgnderun   Total
Project                 35      46        55       49          39         41
Land for HUDC             *      1                  0           6           1
Non-Project             54      43        35       51          26         46
Equity in HUDC/WSD              _U 10       .2      0         _22       _AZ
Total                  100     100       100      100         100        100
Finanted,byu
Recurrent Surplus       72      54        68       60          55         66
Capital Receipts         5       6         4       16          12          6
Loans from:
-I8RO                12      15        18       16          13         14
- Iller Bank        12       23       10         8         14          14
-OSF                -.!     -           t       0-f                      
Total                  100     loo       100      100         100        100
US$ million equivalent    200       83        39        14         45         380
NB: Some totals do not add due to rounding.
*: less than 0.05%
TUmRKEX
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2:  STRUCTURE OF RECURRENT RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES
(percent of recurrent receipts)
Total    Total                         Averaqe 1987-94                        Total
1982     1986    Adna   Mersin   Tarsus   Cgyhan   Iskenderun  IToal            Si9
Recurrent Receiots
Central Transfers           38.9      51.4     63.6    41.3      46.1     45.4        48.0       64.6     52.2
Local Taxes                 47.9     40.7      30.2    52.2      44.1     38.0        36.4       37.4     39.5
Service IncomeA/            13.2      L2        6.1     6.5        a       16.6       1,i6        8.4      4,4
Total Recurrent Receipts       100.0    100.0    loo.o   100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0      100.0    100.0
Recurrent ExDenditures
Operating Costs             64.4      43.7     36.0    49.7      42.0     48.5        44.3       41.0     39.7
Contingency Reserve          0.0       5.3     10.0      0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0        5.4      5.3
Debt Service                13.9       0.5     10.0    16.1      14.2      11.8       14.4       12.3     10.2
Total Recurrent Expenditures   78.3       49.5     56.0    65.8      56.2      60.3       58.7       58.7     55.2
Operating Surplus/Deficit       21.7      50.5     44.0    34.2      43.8      39.7       41.3       41.3     44.8
Total Receipts
in US$ million equivalent       34        55       41       17        8        31          8         76      107



TUEY
CtKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: FAIR SHARES ANALYSIS: FORECAST OF IS AND MF RESOURCES.
fAIR SHARES TO PROJECT CITIES. AND ESTIMATED USE BY PROJECT CITIES
____mi-----------------------  ----------- in TL Billion------------------------------------------  ------------------in TL Million--------------
Central 1nvestm  Resources to  inicipalities(El               Fair Shares of Cukurova (DI         _               Estimated Fint   e Rejired        Percent
Year  Water S     atian        Other -alWfr ra                  eL& San tat1in    Othe  Act1v ties                 wate  8 .n tantat1on   Other            of Fair
MF(C)  18  Total  MF   IS  Total  MF   IS  Total   HF         IS    Total    MF      Is    Total   Total   Is       HF    Total    (F)    Total    Share
1986(A)   56   76   132   21   16    37   77   92    169  3.360  4.560   7.920  1.260  0.960   2.220  10.140
1986(B)   51   69   121   19   15    34   70   84    154  3.068  4.163   7.231  1.150  0.877   2.027   9.258
1987     54   73   127   20   15    35   74   88    162  3.221  4.372   7.593  1.208  0.920   2.128   9.721  1935  1283    3218   4831             8049      82.8%
1988     56   77   133   21   16    37   78   93    170  3.382  4.590   7.973  1.268  0.966   2.235  10.207 11276  2379   13655  10928    24583    240.8%
1989     59   80   140   22   17    39   81   97    179  S.551  4.820   8.371  1.332  1.015   2.346  10.718  5693   980    6673   7624    14297    133.4%    1
1990     62   84   146   23   18    41   85  102    188  3.729  5.061   8.790  1.398  1.065   2.464  11.253  4872  1264    6136   4666    10802              96.4%   o
1991     65   89   154   24   19    43   90  107    197  3.915  5.314   9.229  1.468  1.119   2.587  11.816  2415   511    2926   3708             6634      56.1%
1992     69   93   162   26   20    45   94  113    207  4.111  5.579   9.691  1.542  1.175   2.716  12.407  1820   560    2380    675              3055     24.6%
1993     72   98   170   27   21    48   99  118    217  4.317  5.858  10.175  1.619  1.233   2.852  13.027   404   489            893    441       1334     10.2%
1994     76  103   178   28 22    SO  104  124    228  6.S33   6         i.S  2 64  1J700  1.29S   2.995  13.679   429   345        774   1197      1971     14.4X
1995     79  108   187   30   23    52  109  130    239  4.75*9  6.459  11.218  1.785  1.360   3.144  14.363   370   277           647    683       1330      9.3%
Total
(87-94)  513  696  1208  192  146.  339  705  842   1547 30.760 41.745  72.505 11.535  8.789  20.323  92.829 28844  7811   36655  34070    70725              76.2%
Percent of Fair Share Received by Cukurya  Municipalities 1987 to 1994 inclusive                       _                  2S.4X  s0 6t 167L.60    76.2A 
HF = Municipal Fund; 1B = Iller Bank
A - 1986 prices. Data from SPO program
B - December 1985 prices, derived by adjusting 1986 figures by I5% (one half of 1986 inflation)
C - Breakdown between HF and other central finance between Water and Sanitation and Other Activities as in 1985
D - Six percent of total
E - Excluding Housing and Urban Development Companies
F - No Municipal Fund Resources are disbursed on non-water and sanitation components.
I0
g~o



- 131 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 19
(the expected increase in GNP in Turkey, with no allowance for an increase in
tax revenues as a share of GNP), the table shows that, as a region, the
program requires only 76 percent of its fair share during the period 1987-94.
Almost 2.5 times its fair share is required in 1988, the year of peak
investment, but by the end of the period the requirement has fallen to only 14
percent. Requirements continue to decline in 1995. The forecasts also assume
that project municipalities would receive less than 20 percent of their fair
shares of Municipal Fund resources.
Affordability and Creditworthiness Criteria
4.       The program has been judged as affordable to each municipality if
debt charges arising from strictly municipal operations, WSD operations, and
HUDCs are less than: (i) 35 percent of total recurrent revenues from grants,
fees, taxes, and service income; or (ii) the amount of Government Support
Grant (6 percent share of national tax collection). The latter criterion
relates as much to creditworthiness as affordability. The Government Support
Grant is paid via Iller Bank and can be withheld in the event of default of
repayment of debt service. The criterion may be considered overly severe
because it includes the contingent liabilities of the WSDs and HUDCs. On the
other hand, practicality demands that an effort be made to identify criteria
which can be clearly defined and measured.
Financial Forecasts
5.       Municipal finances are summarized for each town in tables 4 to 8,
which draw together project and nonproject municipal activities and also
record through flows via the municipalities to their HUDCs and WSDs. The
financial table is separated into two: current account and capital account.
The current account provides details of recurrent incomes and expenditures,
including debt charges. It shows how the surplus on current account, which is
used to finance capital expenditures, is generated. The capital account shows
details of municipal capital expenditure (project and nonproject) and equity
investments, and it records the through flow of loans to the WSD and HUDC.
(Loans are made to the municipality to finance the capital expenditures of
these two agencies.) The capital account shows how the capital program is
financed: by loans (IBRD and national government), by capital receipts (cost
recoveries and land sales) and by application of contributions from current
account. Details are provided for each municipality from 1982-85 (actual
income/expenditures), 1986-87 (estimate/revised estimate data), and 1988-95
(forecast data).
Municipal Forecasts
Assumptions
6.       Government Support:  Recurrent Grant.    The forecasts assume that
municipal authorities continue to receive, a year in arrears, 6 percent of the
Government's collection of taxes, distributed on the basis of each town's
proportion of national municipal population as shown in census data. In order
to ensure conservative forecasts, overall real growth in Government tax
collections of only 3 percent p.a. is assumed, from the base of 1986 actual
allocations (as compared with expected GNP growth of 5 percent).



- 132 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 19
7.       Share of Central Government Taxes Collected Locally (Adana only).  As
a metropolitan municipality, Adana receives 5 percent of total Central
Government taxes collected in its boundaries. The forecast is based upon
zevised estimated 1986 receipts and 1987 budget data. Future growth is
assumed at 3 percent in real terms.
Own Current and Service Income - General
8.       Locally administered current and service incomes include municipal
fees, municipal taxes, property tax, and charges for services. Taken
together, these revenues are referred to as "own" revenues. (Their rates are,
however, almost all subject to Central Government prescription.) The most
significant receipts for which local discretion exists are the charges made
for water and for sewerage services.
9.       Conservative assumptions have been made concerning the growth of the
municipalities' own revenues during the project period. Despite the transfer
of property tax to municipalities from 1986, overall the growth of municipal
income from own revenues, excluding water and sanitation revenues, is forecast
to increase by only 0.5 percent p.a. on a real per capita basis from 1985 to
1995. Substantial increases are assumed in water and sanitation tariffs
(Annex 12), and if these are included the annual increase becomes 5.8
percent. Details are given below.
Property Tax
10.      Features Common to All Towns.  The forecasts are based upon revised
estimates of actual collections in 1986. Allowance is made for increases in
collection efficiency of 10 percent to be achieved by 1988. Revaluation of
property values are assumed every three years and property values are assumed
to increase in line with inflation.
11.      Town Specific Features.  The forecasts incorporate a factor to
reflect the growth in the tax base in each town. The range of annual growth
rates are given below by town:
-    Adana: 4 - 6 percent p.a.
-    Ceyhan: 3 - 4 percent p.a.
-    Iskenderun: 6 - 7.5 percent p.a.
-    Mersin: 6 - 8 percent p.a.
-    Tarsus: 4 - 6 percent p.a.
Other Fees and Taxes
12.      Common Features.  Forecasts were made for each  of some 60 fees and
taxes collected by municipalities, mainly based upon 1985 actual receipts and
checked against 1986 rates and revised budgets. Forecast growth variously
includes an allowance for general real growth of 3 percent p.a., for annual
growth in population and for nominal 10 percent p.a. increases in fees as well
as consolidated increases every five years to bring them back in line with
inflation. The outcome of these adjustments is that other fees and taxes per
capita in real terms, after increasing from 1982 to 1985, would decrease over
the project period.



- 133 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 19
Service Income
13.      Common Features.  The major item of service income is bus fares,
forecast separately for each town. Forecasts of other service income are
based on 1985 actual receipts, together with revised budgets for 1986 and 1987
budget forecast. Forecast growth includes an allowance for changes in rates
of charge of 10 percent p.a., consolidated in line with inflation every five
years.
14.      Town Specific Features.  Bus income forecasts have been adjusted to
reflect actual changes in fares in 1986 and approved changes in 1987. In
addition to annual increases in line with inflation, real increases in income
are forecast town by town, as shown below:
-    Adana: 10 percent in 1988, thereafter 5 percent p.a. to 1991,
following constant real fares in 1986, a decrease of 15 percent in
1987.
-    Ceyhan: 0 percent p.a., following a 49 percent increase in 1987.
-    Iskenderun: 10 percent p.a. until 19?2 after an increase of 44
percent in 1987.
-    Mersin: 0 percent throughout the period following a 45 percent
decrease in 1986.
-    Tarsus: 0 percent following a 40 percent increase in 1986.
Dividend from HUDC
15.      A nominal dividend of 10 percent of the net after-tax profit of the
HUDC is assumed to be paid to the municipality in the following year.
Surplus from WSD
16.      Any surplus remaining within the WSD after allowing for internal
financing of capital and working capital requirements is assumed to be paid to
the municipality.
Recurrent Expenditures
17.      Staff.  After recruitment of an initial increase in high level staff
in 1987 and 1988, real staff costs are assumed to remain constant until 1991
when they would increase to maintain a constant real per capita expenditure.
18.      Goods and Services.  It is assumed that expenditure on goods and
services outside the scope of the project is sufficient to absorb growth until
1990. Thereafter, expenditure is maintained constant in real terms per
capita. Additionally, allowance is made for incremental costs which arise
from the project; these costs amount to 3 to 13 percent, depending on the
town, of total expenditures on staff, goods, and services by 1994.



- 134 -
ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 19
Nonproiect Capital Expenditure
19.      The estimate of nonproject capital expenditure assumes that 1987
expenditure will be as budgeted, with the addition of Iller Bank works being
carried out (e.g., town hall in Ceyhan) and certain maintenance functions
reallocated to recurrent expenditure. From 1988-92, the basic nonproject
expenditure forecast is equal in per capita expenditure terms to the average
for the period 1982-85. This base estimate was then modified to ensure
affordability criteria were met. This modification resulted in reduced
programs in Iskenderun (1987-91), Mersin (1988-90), and Tarsus (1987-90).
(Details are provided in para. 26 below.) (In the case of Ceyhan where there
was no capital expenditures prior to 1986, estimates are based upon 1986 and
1987 data.) Post-1992, an additional allowance is made for a continuation of
project-type expenditures. The result is that post-project investment
expenditures are about twice the per capita real levels experienced in 1982-86
(1986-87 in the case of Ceyhan).
Loan Finances
20.      IBRD loans are assumed to be repaid over a 17-year period, with 4
years of grace, at an interest rate of 8.25 percent. An annual commitment
charge of 0.75 percent of the undrawn balance is made, and an administration
fee of 2.75 percent of the amount borrowed is charged when a borrowing is
made. Foreign exchange risks are borne by municipalities. The amount of IBRD
borrowing is based on proposed loan disbursement percentages.
21.      Iller Bank loans) via the CPF, are assumed to be repaid over a
15-year period at an interest rate of 16 percent. The amount of Iller Bank
loan required is calculated as a residual, after taking account of the
proceeds of the World Bank loan, recurrent surpluses, capital receipts, and
loans from DSF for land purchase in UEAs.
Capital Receipts
22.      Cost Recovery.  Two main sources of cost recovery from municipal
works are estimated:
(i)  Direct recovery of capital expenditures.  Neighborhood road and
sidewalk improvements are subject to cost recovery by the levy of a
charge equivalent to the minimum of a direct allocation of costs to
beneficiaries' properties (typically on a frontage basis), or 2
percent of the property value as assessed for property tax.
(ii)  Legalization fee.  Within upgrading and housing management areas, it
is estimated that a range of charges, fees, and penalties totaling
TL 150,000 will be levied for regularizing planning status (which is
a requirement for securing individual legal title).



- 135 -
ANNEX 10
Page 8 of 19
23.      Cash Surplus on HUDC Land Sale.  At the time of sale of land to
developers or individuals, the HUDC is assumed to repay to the municipality
the purchase price of land plus subsequent changes arising from inflation. At
the same time, the municipality is required to repay any loan on land taken
from DSF, plus a 10 percent fee, and the difference (a cash surplus) is
treated as a general municipal capital receipt.
24.      Contribution to to Off-Site Infrastructure.  The HUDC is assumed to
contribute an amount equivalent to some 33 percent of the real cost of
off-site infrastructure provided by the WSD and the municipality. The total
contribution is prorated between the WSD apd the municipality according to the
investment of each, and the share due to the WSD is shown as a capital
transfer in the municipal summary tables.
Town Specific Issues
25.      Adana.  The financial forecasts for Adana reflect its metropolitan
status conferred during 1986. Although the costs are expected to be met from
reallocating existing staff and facilities of Adana municipality, a
contingency reserve, equivalent to 10 percent of recurrent income, is retained
to allow for costs arising from the de facto establishment of the
municipalities of Yuregir and Seyhan following the municipal elections of
1989. Until that date, services are expected to continue to be provided by
Adana metropolitan municipality. The program of project and nonproject
capital expenditures in Adana is forecast to be comfortably affordable with
surplus funds becoming available from 1992.
26.      Mersin.  Mersin has a relatively high level of recurrent expenditures
and revenue generation from its own sources, which is retained in the
forecasts as a characteristic of this local tourist and transport center. The
forecast capital expenditure program is not quite affordable, with the
constraint of debt charges not exceeding the recurrent Government Support
Grant implying a reduction of nonproject capital expenditure to some 85
percent of lc82-85 average real per capita levels during 1988, 1989, and 1990
in order to satisfy both criteria. The full program becomes comfortably
affordable if the underlying growth of the Government Support Grant is assumed
to be 5 percent instead of the conservatively low estimate of 3 percent.
27.      Tarsus.  Due partly to its pattern of borrowing, the forecast for
Tarsus cannot be made to satisfy both affordability criteria even with
virtually no nonproject capital expenditure in 1988 and 1989, and with no
loan-funded nonproject capital expenditure in 1989 and 1990. In 1991, debt
charges exceed Government Support Grant (6 percent share) by some 5 percent.
If, however, the underlying growth in this Grant is assumed to be 5 percent
instead of 3 percent p.a., the program becomes affordable if nonproject
capital expenditure is restricted to 85 percent of budgeted levels in 1987 and
limited to one third of average 1982-85 real per capita levels during the
years 1988-90. Alternative phasing of HUDC debt repayment, or greater use of
Municipal Fund finance, would enable the overall program to meet both
affordability criteria.



- 136 -
ANNEX 10
Page 9 of 19
28.      Ceyhan.  The financial forecasts for Ceyhar indicate the program of
project and nonproject capital expenditure is affordable, and the surpluses
forecast to arise from 1990 onwards suggest that the municipality could make a
contribution to investment in water and sanitation, so reducing the
requirement for Central Government loan finance.
29.      Iskenderun.  Own current and service municipal income of Iskenderun
is forecast to increase during the project period in real per capita terms.
Despite tha relatively low existing income collection, by 1995 real per capita
income from these sources is forecast to reach average levels for the project
towns. The capital program meets the affordability constraints on the base
forecasts only by severely restricting nonproject capital expenditures, by
undertaking no nonproject investment in 1988 to 1990 and, in 1991, spending at
only 30 percent of average 1982-85 per capita levels. Because of this
situation, the municipality has already deferred construction of its new
municipal building which had been planned to start in 1987. Less severe
restrictions could be allowed if more generous affordability and
creditworthiness criteria were adopted, or if debt charges relating to the
HUDC were rephased. If, however, the Government Support Grant were to grow in
real terms at 5 percent p.a. instead of the conservative assumption of only 3
percent p.a., the nonproject capital expenditures could be fully financed in
1987 as well as two thirds of their average 1982-85 real per capita levels
during the period 1988-91. Smaller municipal contributions to the WSD (which
might arise from charging higher tariffs, or achieving operating cost savings)
would also enable a larger municipal program.



- 137 -
ANNEX 10
Page 10 of 19
CSUomvA UMaM    ELOPHUT POJWCT
laMES 1: ADAMA MUNICIPALITY FINANCIAL FORECAST
l992    lim   jiM    liii    jiM nuai    115              jjfl    1310    im        im       12      1310   Jim
---      ----   ---------------in Million IL-----------------------------,----_---_----
CURRENT ACCOUNT
. Govenment Support
(6Z Share)             "5  1,s595  2.288   4,834   6,084  11,001  12.87"  17,152  21,023  27,602  33.262  39,741  47,483  56,731
. Share of Central Taxes
Collected Locally        0       0       0       0   3,394   6.788   8,563  IO.S8U  12,97n  15,76   18,999  22,700  27.122  32,406
. Property Tax                 0      0       0       0   1,850   2,030   2,223   4,148   4,311   4.502   7,907   8,182   8,504  13,965
. Other Municipal fees
and Taxes            1.n 111  L.t8  LZ2    1.1 ,22Z    it.5  Lii   LII  12,A ls.415   1lU n                        .91 nM     27.268  2LI4
Total Current Income      2.468  2,826  4,070   8,235  18,255  26,150  32,236  40,877  50,952  63,285  78,179  91,574 110,377 138,642
. Expenditure on Staff.
Goods & Services    1,520  2,253  3,628   6,414   6,091  10.277  13,927  16,507  19,385  22,822  28.927  34,7S7  41,771  50,164
S Subscription to CtA                                                 69      113     195      229      296     317      322     295      472
. unicipal Debt Charges  4OS                      __22S ....Ja ..UA 1 4  _3,07M   4-632  _Li24   10.766  11.404  It,                   12.561
Gross Current Municipal
Expenditure          1.987  2,696  4,2e0   6,639   8,093  10,534  16,614  19.779  24,247  33,368  40,010  46,493   4,.045  62,998
. Less Municipal Service
Income                (4401 4697i 1 .fiiX2 (1,4121 £1.24511-44C'1 11.4514  (2421211 f,S131 i4.27m1 aS.65SI a              i 0   1,2SM1
Net Municipal Current
Expenditure          1,547  1,999  3,591   5,627   6,837   9,094  13,769  17.487  20,734  29,091  34,955  40,555  46,16s  53,745
* Dividends from HUOC         0       0       0       0        0       0    (111)   (218)   (249)   (331)   (420)   (227)   (162)   (179)
S Surplus from bSh            0       0       0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0  (3,541) (4,823) (9,216)
Operating Surplus/
(Deficit)              921    827    479   2,608  11,418  17.056  18.578  23,608  30.467  34,526  43,645  54,788  69,198  91,292
Operating Oalance
(prev. year)             0       0      0        0        0       0        0       a        0       (0)     (0)  2,304   3,759   4,713
Contribution to Capital 1,089 1,379  1,976   2.837   5,745  14.297  15,170  19.291  25.021  27.770  332017  43,582  56,416  67,770
. Contingency Reserve          0      0       0       0   1,951   2,759   3.408   4,317   5,447   6,756   8,323   9,751  11,828  14,489
Net Surplus/(Doeficit)      (168)  (552) (1.497)  (229)  3,722          0       0        0       (0)     (0)  2,304   3,759   4,713  13,746
CAPITAL   ACCOUNT
EXPENOITUR
. Project                      0      0       0       0        0   1,577  14,572  16,098  23,343  19,348  12,822   9,395         466        0
.Land (HUDC)                   0      0       0       0   1,654       30        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
m aon-Project             1.1  11.71  lii   2i i                  10i7ag  1S24  1.243  1Si.45   20,2l I      24-648  34.945  52.249  6L2ui
Capital Expenditure on
Goods & Services    1,089  1,379  1,976   2,837   7,274  12,216  25,096  29,341  39,800  39,631  37,470  44,340  52,715  62,689
Transfer Payments
. Equity Investments
- HUDC                    0       0       0       0       25  1.020         0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0
- uSO                     0       0      0        0        0   7,061   1,388   1,715   2,102   2,760   3,326   3,974   4,748   5,673
L Loans Via Municipality to
- HUOC                    0       0      0        0        0     543      77."  1,346      874   1,594      896      636       0        0
- WSO                     0       0      0        0        0   1,385  23,009  15,729  13,799  10.274   8,706   1,957         273        0
. Contribution to Off-Site
Infrastructure - WSO    0        0       0       O        a Q            21.     360      342      404     4       Is 1S8      o .o
Total Capital Expenditure
& Transfers          1,089  1,379  1,976   2,837   7,299  22,385  50,480  48,491  54,917  54,643  50,864  S1,065  57,736  68.362
. Loans - IM81                 0      0       0       0        0   2,099  13,260  12,460  14.484  13,121  10,260   5,542          419       0
- CPF                 0       0      0        0       0   5,642  21,213  14,425  15,050   9,239   3,367            0       0        0
- oSr                 0       0      0        0   1,554      348        0       0        0       0        a        0       0        0
.Capital Receipts              0      0       0       0        0       0      827   2,314        0        0        0       0        0       0
Contributions from
Current Account      l.OS   1.37   1422    2..   1M   14.297Z  lL.LZ  192911  20I  27iZ0Q  33.017  4&L5a2  S61416  62.770
Total Financing           A*J Q   L42L  1.12    LA32   LIII  2 5II5M&.            5    1  5lL ILA LAI  U. LAU   A.5i ALLM      l      60.52



- 138 -                                                ANNEX 10
Page 11 of 19
Table 4 (Cont'd)
i9U  1a  i2U  Ia  1inn mx   Ia Ia  i                               IaIM    mi  In  IM
Total Debt Charees as a X of
Municipal Total Current &
Service, & NSD Income           16%    11%    1X       2%     0%      5%    13%    21%      19%     26%     22%     20%      16%    14%
Municipal Debt Charges as a I
of Municipal Total Current
a Service Incoz                 16%    13%    12X      2%     0%      1%     4%     7X      9%      14%     13%      12%     10%     9%
Municipal Debt Charges as a X
of Gross Municipal
Current, Expenditure            31%    20%    15%      4%     0%      2X    11%    19%     24%      39%     37%     33%      28%    25%
Total Debt Charges as a % of
Geverimnrt Support (6%)         47%    28%    25%      5%     OX    15%    40%    68%      67%      86%     79%     69%      58%    61%
Municipal Debt Charges as a S
of Goversuant Support (6%)      47%    28%    25%      5%     0%     2%    11%    18%      22%      34%     32%     29%      25%    22%
Municipal Net Current Expendit.
as a X of Total Municipal
Current Incama                  63%    71%   S8U    60%    37%    35%    43%    43%        41%      46%     45%     44%      42%    40%
Municipal Net Current Expendit.
as a X of Municipal Net
Current 6 Capital Expenditure  59%    59%    65%    66%    48%    42%    38%    37%        34%      42%     48%     48%      47%    46%
unicipal Operating Surplus as a
X of Municipal Capital
Expenditure & Transfers         85%    60%    24%    92%   156%    76%    37X    49%       54%      63%     86S    107%    120%   134%
Own Revenues as a % of
Total Revenues (including WSO) 69%    60%    57%    55%    46S    43%    46X    50%        52%      52X     54%     54%      55%    56%
Own Revenues as a X of
Total Revenues (excludirtsn 1S) 66X%    5%    51%    48%    41%    36X    34%    36%       38%      36X     37%     36%      37%    38%
Kon-Project Capital Expenditure
as a % of Total Capital
Expenditure (including WSO)   100%   100%   100%   100%    7M%    70%    22%    28X        29%      36S     46%     73%      98%   100%
Mon-Project Capital Expenditure
as a X of Total Capital
Expenditure (excluding WSO)   100%   100%   100%   100X    79%    87%    42%    45S%    41%         t1%     66X     79%      99%   100%
Expenditure Per Mtillion Pop.-Base Prices
Miun1 ioal Aetivities:
Current Expenditure          7,691  8,249  8,610  9,923  8,664  8,212  8,698  8,151   7,703   7,689   7,675   7,658   7,646  7,632
Current Expenditure
Including Obt Charges        10,054  9,871  9,9"  10,271  6.667  8,418  9,703  9,767   9,633  10,769  10,616  10,243   9,896  9,584
Capital Expenditure
(Proj..ion-Pro3e.ct)          5.510  5,049  4,677  4,3J9  6,126  9,866 15,595 14,U49  15,816  12,791   9,942   9,769   9,649  9,537
Capital Expend. (ncl. WSO)
(Proj.+Non-Project)           5.510  5,049  4,677  4,389  6,126 15,918 30,093 24,228  23,770  18,726  14,602  12,772  12,924 12,769
Own Current & Service Ineom       9.679  7,059  5,659  6,827  8,602  7,832  7,234  7,621   8,134   7,809   8,218   7,727   7,994  8,483
Omn Current, Service &
SO Imcam                     11,096  8,699  7,107  9,107 10,475 11,510 12,827 14,327  15,521  15,822  17,187  16,970  17,578 18,155
Total Current & Service Inema   14,714 12,898 11,074 14,305 20,894 22,047 21,179 21,318  21,643  21,805  22,085  21,484  21,649 22,044
Total Current, Service &
WSO Income                   16,130 14,539 12,523 16,586 22,767 26,604 27,634 28,61l  29,86s  30,710  31,936  31,603  32,103 32,579



-139-                                                  ANNEX 10
Page 12 of 19
TURKEY
UXUIAEVA URBAN OEVELOPMSMT PaJEC?
Uahl   s:  MERSIN MUICIPALITY FINANCIAL FORECAST
1Ma2  liii   JM6  JiM    JIM    .ID              JI        J992  .I         J        122    .....1   112! 111
---  -----------------------------      i aion TL -----------------------------------------------------
CURREN T ACCOUNT
. Government Support
(6% Share)             513    655  1.081   1,861   3,229   4,455   5,620   6.944   8,514  12,114  14,598  17,441  20,839  24.898
. Share of Central Taxes
Collected Locally
. Property Tax                0       0       0       0      85O     944   1,050   1,981   2,094   2,219   3,949   4,160   4,413   7.312
. Other Municipal Fees
and Taxes                    __M1 JM LZ      ZJ.      14hZ   LiZI 4.57  . 2 42   2.122  ll.D75  14.A    17.692  2IL=1   1.122
Total Current Income       1.1S4  1,649  2.866   4.704   7,826   9,980  12,491  16,284  20.180  26,208  33.041  39,293  47,335  59,108
EXPE"Dht
. Expenditure on Staff.
Goods a Services    1,026  1.484  2.364   3,691   4,127   6.693   7,484   9,051  10,771  13,557  16,490  20,161  24,643  30,130
. Subscription to CMTA                                                35       5S3     91      120      124     163      175      182     222
. Municipal Debt Charges  1J3      _11  LJ.M _98              1B_    131      4_   17 12   3.661.J.L  _5. .L.Z 7I9Z _L-, 2Qfi  8.459A
Gross Current Municipal
Expenditure           (162)  (29S)  (427)   (607)   (623)   (649)   (771)   (912) (1,584) (1,862) (2,185) (2,559) (3,753) (4,386)
. Less Municipal Service
Income               JJi2l  29SI  1427L   t6071 .(62hf hli t i   t7711 (J12A  il.5.L4I J21,62L  I 241  121.-1 12,75311 h4ail
Net Municipal Current
Expenditure           "92  1,299  3,037   3.306   3,574   6,211   7,234   9,942  12,974  17,748  21,714  25,718  29,298  34,426
O uividends from HUDC          0      0       0       0        0       0      (81)   (101)    (94)   (128)   (140)   (149)    (72)    (7.)
. Surplus from WSD             0      0       0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0    (296)   (758) (2,17k2
Operating Surplus/
(Deficit)              192    350   (171)  1,398   3,952   3,769   5,338   6,443   7,300   8.588  11,467  14,020  18,847  26.932
* Operating Balance
(prev. year)             0       0      0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0    (296)   (758) (2,172)
. Contribution to Capital  469    546    881   1,417   2,921   3,769   5,338   6,443   7,300   8,588  11,467  13,444  19,267  27,086
.Contingency Reserve           0      0       0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Net Surplus/(Deficit)       (277)  (196) (1,052)   (19)  1,031          0       0        0                0        0     554      154       (0)
C A P I T A L A C C O U N T
EXPEXOttCIA                                                        L         C
. Project                      0      0       0       0        0     956   7,539  10,957   8,721  11,588   9.132   4,796            0       0
.Land (HUDC)                   0      0       0       0   2,029      551        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
N Non-Project                       Mi    MfiA  1AU    L2-2    L2I    3t91  J21    5-221   7-546 45L21  11-456 119-41                  ILM226
Capital Expenditure on
Goods & Services       469    546    881   1.417   4,950   4,458  10,736  14,932  13,952  19,134  18,485  16,251  19,854  30,226
Transfer Payments
. Equity Investments
- HUoC                     0      0       0       0        0   1,300        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
- WSo                      0      0       0       0        0       0 2,75   4,831            0        0       0        0        0       0
. Loans Via Municipality to
- HUDC                     0      0       0       0        0     987      830     951      668   1,483      955      321        0       0
- WSD                     0       0      0        0        0   2,284   6,130   4,230   7,382   5,218   3,861         471        0       0
. Contribution to Off-Site
Infrastructure - WSO  __Q    *         Q         O        O       0      358     406      308      355     406      219        0       a
Total Capital Expenditure
&-Transfers            469    546    881   1,417   4,950   9,029  20,829  25,350  22,310  26,190  23,677  17,262  19,854  30,226
FINANCED BY
. Loans - 180                 0      0       0       0        0   1,029   5,934   7,559   6,447   7,972   6,037   2,297            0       0
- UPF                 0       0      0        0       0   3,313   8,663  10,160   6,997   7,265   3,551            0       0   2,850
- DSF                 0       0      0        0 2,029        917        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0
.Capital Receipts              0      0       0       0        0        0     837   2,314        0        0        0       0        0       0
. Contributions from
Current Account                Mi    Ml  1.417     29I   ).M1 3 II    L I 64BA   Lss8  II-"    13.466   19-267  2LQIL
Total FinancAng              £        i"    ML6  J.    & 1   I2'            2*3  2241  22.911  2MOM   2=2   122  112    AL



- 140-                                                  ANNEX 10
Page 13 of 19
Table 5 (Cont'd)
In& 195  19A  JIM  It"  195  Jim I m                          m           I J   mZ  Jim   i               itma
STATISTICS
Total Debt Charses as a 2 of
Municipal Total Current &
Service, & bSD I ncome            9       sX    20%      4X      tX     5     ln      29M     25R      33*      29      24X      20*    17*
Municipal Debt Charges as a D
of Municipal Total Current
& Service locome                 10X      6X    l3X      4*      is     1X     4*    16*       17     21X      21X     19"      16X    13
Municipal Debt Charges as a X
of Gross Municipal
Current Expenditure              12*      7t 46X         6X     2X      2X     43    19ox    324      44       44      39*      2s2    28t
Total Debt Charges as a * of
Government Support (6X)          25X    17   102*    12X       2*    12*    34*    89*       8si    9"i        92*     79*      66X    58%
Municipal Debt Charges as a *
of Goverutent Support (6%)       25*    17*   102*    12X       2*      St    8S    25*       43X      49*      50g     44*      39X    34*
Municipal Net Current Expendit.
as a X of Total municipal
Current Income                   84*    t9X   106%    7M*    47%    623    50S    61X         64B    648        G6U    6o       62*    58*
Municipal Net Current Expendit.
as a I of Municipal Net
Current & Capital Expenditure  68t    70t    78X    70t    42X    58*    40X    40*           48Z      48*      54*     61X      60%    53*
Municipal Operating Surplus as a
X of Municipal Capital
Expenditure & Transfers          41X    64t   -19*    99*    80a    42Z    26t    2lb         33*      33*      4JX     81*      95*    89B
Omn Revenues as a S of
Total Revenues (including WSO) 65*    70*    70*    68*    65*    64          65t   648       69O      67%      69s     609      70X    71*
Own Revenues as a * of
Total Revenues (excluding WSO) 62X    66*    67*    65*    60*    58          U8s    61X 61            57X      5*      '8t      69X    61*
Mon-Project Capital Expenditure
as a X of Total Capital
Expenditure (including WSO)   100*   *OOX   100*   I00         59*    67*    20S    17X       23*      27*      37t     69*    100l    100*
Non-Project Capital Expenditure
as a X of Total Capital
Expenditure (excluding WSD)   100*   100l    100l    IOOX    59*    64*    38*    27*         37*      31*      51X     70X    100*   10ox
Expenditure Per Million Pop.-Base Prices
Munitcial Activities:
Current Expenditure           13,192 13,692 13,971 14,111 10,774 12.8C2 10,97  10,351   9,763   9,741   9.590   9.543   9.469  9,451
Current Expenditure
Including Debt Charges        15,085 14,597 20,030 14,490 10,957 13,146 11.741 12.454  13.19f  14,096  13,899  12,384  12,726 12,175
Capital Expenditure
(Proj.+Non-Project)            6,131  5.000  5,096  5,247  7,624  7,487 15.746 17.133  12,427  13,748  10,733   7,692   7,645  9,482
Capital Expend. (nel. WSO)
(ProJ..Non-Project)            6,131  5.000  5,096  5,247  7.624 12,909 0,200 29,291  21,.06  21,290  11S286   .,949   V,.a 11,4I 8
Own Current & Service Income    10,889 11.804 12,796 12,776 12,843 11.832 11,209 11,761  12.011  11,465  11,996  11,555  11,647 12,107
Own Current. Service b
WSO Income                    12,693 13,810 14,820 14,650 15,338 15,380 15,559 1,705  17,359  17,147  18,673  18,501  t8.802 19,342
Total Current & Service Income  17,595 17,802 19,049 19,667 21,271 20.,70 19,452 19,731  19,7    20,169  20.406  19,$10  19,671 19,917
Total Current, Service a
WSO Income                    19,399 19,808 21,074 21,541 22.767 23,918 23,802 24,675  25.077  26,451  27.163  26.756  26,826 27,152



- 141 -
ANNEX 10
Page 14 of 19
UhlI : TAS eaICIPAALtY VIOCIAL FORECASt
---------------^----------in Nil         -        --n'L--  __ ___ _    __-_---_-_
C U RR EN 1 T   A C C O U N T
. Goverrunt Support
(48 Share)            278    371    476   1.0o    1,672   2,270   2,866       541  4,342   S,622   6,775   5.091   9.672  l1,SS6
Share of Central Taxes
Collected Locally
. Property Tax                0      0              0      458     339     424      925     968   1,011   1,776   1,-S    1,940   3,201
. Other municipal Fees
and Taxes             in               *    L       la"    121   LaiI   L I   L               LIII  Ia I L LI          4       LIIU
Total Currant Income        461    667    926   2,081   3,435.  4,303   1,371   7,020   8,681  10,767  13,515  15,879  18,9M 6  23,638
EXPH D"US
. Expenditure on Staff,
Goods a Services       378    553    72s   1,326   1,58    2,090   2,898   3,475   4,091   6,001   6,050   7,196   8,572  11t,2
. Subscription to CMTA                                              69      113     19S     229     29       317     332      396     472
. Mnicipal Debt Charges   119       73    101      82       56     169     335   1,095   1,279   2,208   2,498   2,748   2,908   3,096
Gross Current municipal
Expeniture            497    626    826   1,408   1,644   2,276   3,276   4,610   5,410   7.262   8,609  10,019  11,568  14,466
. Less Municipal Service
Inee                 (73)  (141)  (187)   (266)   (370)   (469)   (S60)   (677)   (994) 01.184)  1,407) (1,664) (2,235) (2,636)
Net Municipal Current
Expenditure           424    485    639   1,142   1,274   1,817   2,716   3,933   4,416   6,078   7,202   8,358   9,333  11,830
Dividends from IWOC         0       0      0       0        0       0     (16)    (14)    (22)    (42)    (58)    (49)    (40)    (44)
s Surplus from WSO                                                                                                (1,616) (1,914) (2,800)
Operating Surplus/
(Deficit)              37    182    287      939   2,161   2,486   2,671   3,101   4.287   4,731   6,381   9,189  11,607  14,652
operating Salane
(prev. year)                                                            a        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
. Contribution to Capital  142    403    462      680   1,726   2,486   2,671   3,101   4,287   4,731   6,381   9,189  11,607  14,450
.Contiagency feserve         0       0      8       0        0       0       a        0       a       0        0       0       0        a
Net Surplus/(Deficit)      (105)  (221)  (175)   (259)    436        0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0     202
CAPI TAL ACCOUNT
* ProJect                    o0      a      o                0   l,IS6   5,208   4.516   5,715   3.785   4,889   3,671       455        0
Land (MUOC)                   0      0      0              815       0                0       0        0       0       0        0       0
*on-Project                 142    403    462     6O8   1,700   1,206         1      53     784   3,314   4,060   6,635  11,753  14,478
Capital Expenditure on
Goods 6 Services       142    403    462      60   2,515   2,402   5,209   4,569   6,499   7,099   8,949  10,306  12,208  14,478
Transfer Payments
. Equity Investments
- IUOC                    0      0      8        0      25     700      150     150       0        0       0       0        0       0
- wso                     0      e      0       0 o              0   2,336        0       0        0       0       0        0       0
. Loans Via municipality to
- 4uC                     a      0      0       0        0     311     464      48.     275      174      27      51        0       0
- WSo                     0      0      0       0        0   1,806   3,828   3,415   4,410   2,292   1,451       466       29       0
. Contribution to Off-Site
Infrastructure - WSO    a       O     .             .           a      121     17               2*1     Sol1    .          a       0
Total Capital Expenditure
a Transfers            142    403    462      680   2,540   5,219  12,159   8,777  11,397   9,823  10,728  10,660  12,237  14,478
FINCEDa
* Loans - IWD                 0      0      0       0        0     830   4,015   3,081   3,799   2,694   2,797   1,669        172       0
- CPF                0       0      0       0      150   1,981   5,221   2,239   2,681   1,613       601       0     252        0
- oSF                0       0      0       0     815      122       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
. Capital Receipts            0      0      0        0       0       0      252     356     630      785     950     350      206      28
C Contributions from
Current Account      1i2      61Ul                                                   4 ii2 LA    L5 2 4 1  6.2f1 1. .Z12   L it ?1J    I lU 9.18  1410   l4500
Total Financing             Iii                          Z.= Ml  AM   LiS  LIJ   "-1  Li    U.     L3   AL=   J&a  AL=2   &za



- 142 -                                            ANNEX 10
Page 15 of 19
Table  6  (Cont'd)
Il      l     J IM  1        IIM     112A    IS   8IM       lI      1211    1113    Jill   JIM     122C
STATISICSQ
Total Debt Charges as a X of
municipal Total Current &
Service, a Uso Income           20X      8X     82      32     12      7X    152    242      322     342      25%     22X      19%    162
Municipal Oebt Charges as a X
of Municipal Total Current
& Service Income                222      92     9X      32     12      42     62    14%      132     182      172     16X      14%    12X
Municipal Debt Charges as a %
of Gross Municipal
Current Expenditure             312    13X    14X       62     42     82    1n      312      312     442      412     382      342    272
Total Debt Charges as a 2 of
Governmmnt Support (6%)         432    202    212       8X    3n    17X    372    652        952    1052      812     732     632    56%
Municipal Debt Charges as a X
of Government Support (62)      432    202    21t       8X     32     72    122    312       292     392      37X     342      302    272
Municipal Net Current Expendit.
as a 2 of Total unmicipal
Current Income                  922    72U    692    552    37X    42X    512    SG6         512i    S6       532     532     49X    SO0
Municipal Not Current Expendit.
as a 2 of Municipal Net
Current & Capital Expenditure  75%   S6       582    632    342    432    342   4U          402     462      452     452      432    452
Municipal Operating Surplus as a
2 of Municipal Capital
Expenditure & Transfers         262    45X    622   3382    852    482    222    35%         382     48X      S9     852     952   1012
Own Revenues as a 2 of
Total Revenues (including WSD) s52      59X    622    602X   59      582    602    642      672      672     69X      692      702    722
Own Revenues as a X of
Total Revenues (excluding wSD) 482    54%    572    57%    562    62X    522    542          552     532 X    55      542     S42    562
Non-Project Capital Expenditure
as a X of Total Capital
Expenditure (including USO)   1002   1002   100X   1OOX    682    51%         4X     12       72     302      33X     622     972   1002
Non-Project Capital Expenditure
as a X of Total Capital
Expenditure (excluding WSD)   lO0X   1OOX   1OOX   1o00       682    SOX    0       12      122     47%      45S     64%     96X   1002
Expenditure Per Million Pop.-Base Prices
MWnicical Activities:
Current Expenditure           9.180  9,741  8,307  9,949  8,292  8,171  8,849  8,430   8,007   7,902   7,801   7,653   7,533  8,162
Current Expenditure
Including Debt Charges       12.070 11,017  9,464 10,564  8,S84  8,897 10.001 11,183  10,589  11,475  11,100  10,655  10,16S 10.480
Capital Expenditure
(ProJ.+Non-Project)           3,449  7,099  5,293  5,102  8,874  9,390 15.903 11,081  12.720  11,216  11,540  10,960  10,728 10,489
Capital Expend. (incl. WSD1
Proj3.4Non-Project)           3,449  7.099  5,293  5.102  8.874 16,966 36,319 20,937  23,389  17,794  16,330  13,994  13,991 13,739
Own Current & Service Income       6,217  7,698  7.299 10.069 11,136  9,742  9,358 10,076  10,438  10.000  10,505  10,048  10,149 10,663
Own Current. Service a
WS1  Income                   7,359  9,459  8,914 11.450 12,399 12.138 13.055 15,170  16,928  18,198  19,516  19,590  20,146 21.147
Total Current & Service Income  12,969 14.233 12,752 17,610 19,864 18,616 18.108 18,670  18,926  18,884  19,241  18,656  18.648 19,035
Total Current. Service &
W150 Income                  14,111 15.994 14,368 18,990 21,128 21,012 21,805 23,764  25,427  27,081  28,251  26,199  26,645 29,519



-143-                                                      ANNEX io
Page 16 of 19
umv Umn" OEWLO9U PAO4IuT
Jobln 7: CEYMAN MUNICIPALITY FINANCIAL FORCCAST
1982    lim   110    12 m       Jim      Jll    JIM        3m       1Q2Q    liii    122       Jill    Jll   1225
_------- --------------------- in Million TL------------------------------------------------------
CURRENT   ACCOUNT
G Sovernment Support
(6t Share)              116    182    212      473      799   1.089   1,374   1,699   2,082   2,387   2.876   3,437   4,106   4,906
. Share of Central Taxes
Collected Locally
. Property Tax                 a       0      0        0      191     205      222      403     414      428      745      769     793   1,293
. Other Municipal fees
and Taxes              1Q      lii5       12     1   __2      -AU    __wS 1    __q1   121    1.2 JUA3             Lin    LAUS   2I2   2
Total Current income         224    297    410       901   1,519   1,963   2.411   3,083   3,70   4,358   5,450   6,365   7,591   9,421
. Expenoiture on Staff,
Goods & Services        150    228    305       458     746   1.150   1,619   1,853   2,151   2,561   3,067   3,619   4,3?   5,228
. Subscription to CHTA                                                   7      10       25       21      21       24       29       36      42
M Municipal Debt Charses       0       0      0        0       34     127      226      447     657      866      671      898     954   1,019
Gross Current Municipal
Expenditure             1SO    228    305       458     780   1,284  1865   2,326   2,7)0   3,449   3,963   4,546   5327   6,299
. Less Municipal Service
Income                  (14)   (45)  (112)   (235)   (279)   (377)   (443)   (519)   (780)   (905) (1,049) (1,216) (1,656) (1,920)
Net municipal Current
Expenditure             136    183    193       223     501      907   1,412   1,807   1,950   2,654    3,914   3,330   3,671   4,379
ODividends from HUOC           0       0      0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
.Surplus fram WSO              0       0      0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        a        0       0
Operating Surplus/
(Deficit)                88    114    217      678   1,018   1,056        999   1,276   1,820   1,814   2,536   3,035   3,920   8,042
. Operating 8alance
(prev. year)                                                              501       (0)     (0)    553   1,152   2,241   2,982   2,808
. Contribution to Capital    0         0      0        0      635     5655   1.500   1,276   1,268   1,215   1,447   2,294   4,094   4,854
.Continency Reserve            0       0      0        0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
Net Surplus/(Oeficit)         88    114    217       678      383      501       (0)     (0)    553   1,lS2   2,241   2.982   2,808   2.996
.XPEtTUR                                                CAPITAL   ACCOUNT
P Project                      o       0      0        0        0     208   2.694   1,551   1,089        942   1,298       897        0       0
.Land (HUOC)                   0       0      0        0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
N Non-Project                  0       0      0        0      635     560      693      852   1,038   1,254   1,517   2,585   4,094   4,854
Capital Expenditure on
Goods & Services          0       0      0        0     635      768   3,387   2,403   2,127   2.196   2,815   3,482   4,094   4,864
Transfer Payments
. Equity Investments
-HUOC                      0       0      0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
-wsD                      0       0      0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
L Loans Via Municipality to
-NUC                       0      0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
- USO                      0       0      0        0        0     375   2,993   1,413   1,300        724      527   1,724      405      241
. Contribution to Off-Site
Infrpstructure - WSD    it           A     #                  o    o       672   .           14S                        O        O .  
Total Capital Expenditure
& Transfers               0       0      0        0      635   1,143   6,447   3,841   3,441   2,920   3.342   5,206   4,499   5,o09
fINAIICED BY
. Loans - TM80                 0       0      0        0        0      91   1,899   1,004        841     617      618      711        0       0
- CPF                 0       0       0        0     146      499   2,856   1,216       801      403      316   1,295      406      241
-DSF                  0       0       0        0       0      148      192     345      532      685      960     907        0        0
. Capital Receipts             0       0      0        0        0        0     252      356      630     788      950      355      206      28
. Contributions from
Current Account           A      A       Q        Q     k35   .111   1.5Q   L.2   1J26a   I.&1    1.447   22..    4LAM             4.86
Total Financing                Q       Q      4        a      a     L22   LuZ    1,01   L^M            LIa2    LI9    sLZ       2L  s    se



- 144-                                                     ANNEX 10
-                                        V~~~~~~~~a-ge  17 of  19
Table 7 (Cont'd)
Total Debt Charges as a X of
Municipal Total Current &
Service. & WSD income            02     02      OX    0o      22     72    122    182       lox     525     212     192      172    162
Municipal Debt Charges as a X
of Municipal Total Current
& Service ncome                 0t     OX      02     02     22      5S     ax    122      122     162     1S2      1*2     102     92
Municipal Debt Charges as a X
of Gross Municipal
Current Expenditure              OX     02    O0       OX     52    112    142    242      262      34X     282     268      222    191
Total Debt Charges as a t of
Governwnt Support 6X)            02     02    0       02     42    191   232    SOX       522      752     66     89S      542   468
Municipal Debt Charges as a X
of Gover, m nt Support 62)       Ox     OX    O       0x     42    122    162    262      272      362     302     262      222    212
Municipal Net Current Expendit.
as a X of Total Municipal
Current Income                  612    622    47X    252    332    46X    592    59       52S      58a    5s       52X      482    48tU
Municipal Net Current Expendit.
as a X of Municipal net
Current a Capital Expenditure 100l   1OX   1002   100X    442    54X    292    422        48X      542     812     492      471    472
Municipal Operating Surplus as a
X of Municipal Capital
Expenditure & Transfers         N/A    N/A    N/A   NIA   1602    922    161        2 33X  SX       621     76X 6lll 8a             99X
Own Revenues as a X of
Total Revenues (including USO) S1X    532    662    652    612    62X    62    642         652      672     68S     672     68X    692
Own Revenues as a X of
Total Revenues (excluding WSD) 512    47X    89X    582    562    522    522    53X        542      56X     56X     582    56      57*
Non-Project Capital Expwenditure
as a 2 of Total Capital
Expenditure (including USO)    N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A   100X    7SX    11X    222        sox      412     42X     625    100%   1002
Non-Project Capital Expenditure
as a S of Total Capital
Exponditure (excluding WSC)    N/A    N/A    N/A   N/A   1OOX    73X    202    36X         49X      57X    "5       74S    1002   1002
Expenditure Per 1illion Pop.-Base Prices
Mimiclnal Activities:
Current Expenditure           7.684  8,446  7,229  7,141  8,393  9.892 11,094 10,328   9*842   9,703   9.606   9,560   9,567  9,564
Current Expenditure                                                                                                            0
Including Debt Charges        7,684  8,446  7,229  7,141  8,7m  11,046 12,706 12,961  12,487  13,066  12,409  12,009  11,751 11.499
Cad tal Exowndi t,iar
(ProJ.+1on-Project)               0      0      0       0  7,140  6,604 22,206 13,394   9,732   8,319   8,815   9,198   9,032  8,561
Capital Expend. (inmd. WSC)
(Proj. 11on-Project)              0      0      0       0  7,140  9,829 46*225 22,545  16,918  12,225  11,974  15,202  11,624 11,372
Own Current & Service Income      6,250  5,927  7,347 10,337 11,233 10,739 10,139 10,606  11,290  10,896  11,345  10,946  11,341 11,748
Own Current, Service &
WSO Income                    6,250  7,520  9.907 13,502 14,235 15.9" 15,716 16,585  17,749  17,981  18,.99  18*723  19,327 19,762
Total Current & Service Income  12,193 12,669 12,371 17,711 20,217 20.125 19.552 20,074  20,814  19,939  20,351  20,025  20,398 20.705
Total Current. Service &
USD Income                   12,193 14,261 14,931 20,876 23,220 25,345 25,129 26,054  27,2723  27,024  27,945  27,802  28,384 28,719



- 145 -                                                      ANNEX 10
Page 18 of 19
TURKEY
CEIVA  UBSR   EVELOPMET PRoatC
Table:  IID tRU  II CItI PALITY FINIANIAL FORECAST
12         il     Jim   iIf    Jim     1hz I987    199                      1 1I11   9m             1i9     liii
--- in Million TL.------------------_-_-___-_-_-___-_-__-____.-_-___
C U R R E N T A C C O U N T
IN=
0Goverent Support
(6X Share)            221    342    491   1,038   1,789   2,461   3,106   2,838   4,704   6,119   7,314   8,811  10,527  12.577
. Share of Central Taxes
Collected Locally
. Property Tax                0      0      0       0      5O0    857      622   1,165   1,217   1,276   2,249   2,373   2,497   4,126
. Other bmicipal Fees
and Taxes              hI      11     l      411     .JZ        L I       k1l8l   2466Z   Lt          L&U   ILhZ   5.s08   LQ6
Total Current Incm          397    655    902   1,7'5 3.259   4,241   5,22S   6,822   8,3u   10,430  13,266  15,146  18,632  23,508
EXPEIIOITURE
. Expenditure on Staff,
Goods 6 Services       437    631    762   1,304   1,587   2,091   3,062   3,678   4,380   5,413   6,638   8,140   9,937  12,128
. Subscription to CMTA                                              14      2$       40      40      37       49      69      88      106
Municipal Debt Charges    45       77    140      52        a     120     276   1,092   1,581   2,571   2,700   2,814   2,"9   3,113
Gross Current Municipal
Expenditure            482    708    902   1,356   1,595   2,226   3,361   4,810   6,001   8,021   9,386  11,204  li,964  15,347
L Less Municipal Service
Incana                 (33)  (168)  (237)   (280)   (387)   (5t8)   (771) (1,006) (1,496) (1,933) (2,502) (3,024) (3,930) (4,735)
Net Municipal Current
Expenditure            449    140    665   1,076   1,208   1,638   2,890   3,804   4,505   6,088   6,884   8,000   9,034  10,612
. Dividends from HUOC         0      0      0        0       0       0                0      (7)      (1)    (54)    (98)    (17)    (19)
.Surplus from WSO             0      0      0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Operating Surplus/
(Deficit)              (52)   115    237     681   2,051   2,605   2,635   3,018   3,890   4,343   6,436   7,644   9,615  12,915
. Operating alance
(prev. year)                                                           0        0       0       0        0   1,230     993       (0)
. Contribution to Capital 199    225    456      636   1,325   2,605   2,635   3,018   3,890   4,343   5,206   7,8l  10,608  12,915
.Contingency Reserve         0      0      0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Net Surplus/(Deficit)    (251)  (110)  (219)       45     727       0        0       0       0        0   1,230     993       (0)     (0)
CAPITAL   ACCOUNT
EXPENtM
Project                     0      0      0        0       0   1,395   4,858   4,262   2,951   3,451   3,498   2,244        272       0
*Land (HUDC)                  0      0      0       0      880 1,897         0      135     365        0       0       0       0        0
Non-Project               199    225    456      636   1,300   1,199        1       1        1     840   3,757   7,259  10,924  13,373
Capital Expenditure on
Goods & Services       199    225    456      636   2,188   4,491   4,8U9   4,398   3,217   4,291   7,255   9,503  11,196  13,373
Transfer Payuents
. Equity Investments
- HUOC                    0      0      0       0       25     450     620        0       0        0       0       0        0       0
- USO                     0      0      0        0       0       0 2,951    ,605  5,06S   2,959            0       0        0       0
. Loans Via Muncipaility to
mUOC                    0      0      0        0       0     468      315     236     203      489     336     162        0       0
- USO                     0      0      0        0       0     883   4,613   2,457   3,190   2,433   4,164   2,855   3,317   3,185
Contribution to Off-Site
Infrastructure - NSD    a       O      a               t a    *O O       e      9       7        43      as     118        o 
Total Capital Expenditure
8 Transfers            199    225    456      636   2,205   6,292  13,358  10,786  11,844  10,215  11,840  12,638  14,513  16,558
Loans - i3R                 0      0      0        0       0     712   4,324   3,759   4,319   4,005   3,068   1,503        273       0
- CPF                 0      0      0       0        0     614   5,738   2,250   1,240         1   2,530   2,218   3,455   3,422
-DSF                 0       0      0       0      U0  2,361       162      135     365       0        0       0       0        0
. Capital Receipts            0      0      0       0        0       0     499   1,624   2,029   1,8t6   1,037   1,036        177     221
. Contributions from
Current Account        IM&                   fin    L.Z&   LhOi 12 .   2635    3.018  l.I nQ   4.14s   S.206  7.SE1  10.608  12.91S
Total Financing             12      M     Am       UA 2 L        hm LZ   JM   .38.212  JLJM   18.21  1.m iA ml            l9L=LLaM .1   A".



- 146-                                                  ANNEX 10
Page 19 of 19
Table  8  (Cont'd)
nuq       121     984    12|     12|     P§82   li^     H98   19S    19      lm2    nu9       nu9   lI=
STATISTCS,
Total Debt Charges as a S of
zftmicipal Total Current &
Service,  WSD Incm               91    8o    10l  2X          0      6X    131    201      221    32        321     27X      21X    l81
unicipal Debt Charges as a X
of Municipal Total Current
& Service Income                101     91    121      31     01      21     SX    141      16X     211     171      15S     131    11l
Municipal Debt Chargs as a S
of Gross Municipal
Current Expoenditure            101    122    181      41     11    6X       9X    301     36       47X     411     351      301    261
Total Debt Charges as a X of
Gover,uent Support (61)         20X    231    291      SX     01    161    341    57X      641      931    100     851      671    621
Municipal Debt Charges as a X
of Goverretnt Support (61)      201    231    e91    5s       ox    5s       9X    285     341      42X     37%     321      28X    25S
Municipal Net Current Expendit.
as a X of Total Municipal
Current Income                  61X    621    471    251    331    461    59       59X     521      58o     531     521      481    451
Municipal Net Current Expendit.
as a I of Municipal Net
Current & Capital Expenditure  691    711   591    631    361    27X    351  461           58X      591     491     46X      45     44X
Municipal Operating Surplus as a
x of municipal Capital
Expenditure & Transfers        -261    511    52   1071    93X   411    201  281           331      431     S41     601      66     78X
Own Revnues as a X of
Total Revenues (including WSO) 581   641       41    561   581    591    611    641        661      66X    68X      68X      691    701
Own Revenues as a X of
Total Revenues (excluding WSO) 49X 58X157X  49X  511    49X    48                  511     521      51X     531     531      531   551
Non-Project Capital Expenditure
as a X of Total Capital
Expenditure (includins WSO)   1001   1001   1001   1001    601    241        OX     OX     O        71     30e     69n      95X   100
Non-Project Capital Expenditure
as a X of Total Capital
Expenditure (excluding WSO)   1OX   1001   1001   1001    601    271        OX     0s      01      201     521     761      981   1001
Expenditure Per Million Pop. -ase Prices
ourici 41i Activities:
wCarent Expenditure          10,090 10,457  8,088  8,997  7,688  7,572  8,687  8,238   7,868   7,813   7,753   7,751   7,708  7,662
Current Expenditure
Including Debt Charges       11,129 11,733  9,574  9,355  7.727  8,060  9,537 10,773  10,779  11,576  10,962  10,497  10,057  9,695
Capital Expenditure
(Proj.+Non-Project)           4,595  3,729  4,840  4,388  6,298  9,393 13,785  9,549   5,302   6,193   8,473   9,049   8,685  8,448
Capital Expend. (nel. WSO)
(Proj.eNon-Project)           4,595  3.729  4,840  4,388  6,298 12,586 36,610 24,755  22,822  17,497  14,622  13,358  13,432 13,137
Own Current & Service Income      4,826  7,971  6,878  6,892  8,998  8,582  8,202  8,937   9,305   9,012   9,803   9,292   9,336  9.896
Own Current, Service &
WSO Income                    7,019 10,076  9,404  9,293 12,133 12,652 13,624 15,160  16,354  16,963  18,272  17,987  18,265 18.877
Total Current & Service Income   9,928 13,638 12,089 14,054 17,667 17,494 17,012 17,534  17,755  17,843  18,415  17,682  17,502 17,841
Total Current, Service &
WSO Income                   12,122 15,743 14,616 16,455 20,802 21,564 22,434 23,756  24,804  25,794  26,U84  26,377  26,432 26,823



- 147 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 19
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUNICIPAL WATER AND SANITATION COMPANIES:
ORGANIZATION AND FINANCE
I. PRESENT SITUATION
A. Operational Problems
1.       Although the municipalities have provided water and sanitation
services to an increasing proportion of their populations in recent years,
their water and sanitation systems suffer important common shortcomings:
(i) lack of technical information and records on existing sources,
pumping capacity, networks, and usage;
(ii) inadequate distribution systems, large amounts of leakages and
unaccounted for water, and substantial numbers of illegal
connections;
(iii) absence of both formal instructions for operations and
maintenance, and preventive maintenance (i.e., maintenance is
equated with repair);
(iv) low standard of design and execution of new works, and inadequate
technical capacity to design and implement networks. Works
carried out by Iller Bank have been characterized by excessive
costs and execution periods; and
(v) want of useful financial information for management, i.e., absence
of accounting information on service costs due to a dispersion of
responsibilities among different departments, cash rather than
accrual accounting, failure to separate recurrent from capital
expenditures.
B. Organization
2.       In the past, each municipality provided water and sanitation services
in a somewhat different manner. In Adana, water and sewerage fell under the
responsibility of four deputy mayors. In Mersin, a Water Operations
Isletme-  carried out w.ter-related works, while sewerage was managed by a
1/ Isletmes are separate municipal corporations, statutorily obliged to keep
separate accounts and with a staff establishment separate from that of the
municipality. They act as agents of the municipality and thus their
policies, tariffs, and contracts must be approved by the municipal
assembly.



- 148 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 19
separate technical department. Ceyhan and Iskenderun had similar
organizations in which the Water and Bus Isletmes handled water, while the
sanitation system maintenance was undertaken by the Technical Department. In
Tarsus water was managed by the Water and Intercity Transport Isletme and
sewerage by the Construction Services Department.
3.       In an effort to overcome past service deficiencies, the
municipalities have decided to establish autonomous Water and Sanitation
Departments (WSDs) as isletmes. In the case of Adana, the Adana Water and
Sanitation Authority (ASKI) is being established in compliance with Law 3036
of June 5, 1986 on metropolitan municipalities under Decree No. 87/11594 of 11
March 1987. Because the ASKI will operate under the authority of a Board of
Directors, it will have more autonomy in its dealing with the municipality --
namely staffing, procurement, and accounting -- than the WSDs in other towns.
The chief aims of the WSDs (and ASKI) will be to:
(i) improve extent, quality, and standards of water supply and
sanitation provision;
(ii) increase the quality of management and the effectiveness of labor
utilization;
(iii) provide adequate planning of, and investment in, water and
sanitation services;
(iv) implement cost recovery mechanisms, proper budgetary procedures,
and financial controls in the provision of these services; and
(v) recover all costs of operations, and generate finance from
internal resources for future investments.
4.       The WSDs will be headed by directors with the rank of deputy mayor
who will report to and be responsible to the mayor. (The General Director of
ASKI reports to the Board of ASKI and has the rank of a deputy secretary
general). The internal management team will comprise the managers of four
fuinctional divisions:
(i)  capital projects and planning division will identify the need for
new investments, prepare design briefs, and supervise installation;
(ii) operations and maintenance division will operate and maintain
water supply sources, treatment, transmission, distribution,
sewerage networks, and disposal facilities;
(iii) financial services division will conduct necessary appraisal of
investment proposals, identify funding sources, formulate cost
recovery strategies, process revenues and expenditures, be
responsible for billing and collection, operate a management
accounting system, maintain necessary accounts as a unit within
the municipality, and provide the operations and maintenance
division with adequate financial performance indicators;



- 149 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 19
(iv)  management services division will support the above divisions.
Among its essential services are: inventory database, and
purchasing and office services. Later services to be added are
quality control, legal services, and work procedures.
(v)  A loss reduction su9port group will comprise a director and
interdepartmental task force, and will supervise the consultants
and contractors working on the water loss reduction program and
the network data base. Its activities will include collection and
analysis of information on water production, transmission,
distribution, metering and consumption, identification of major
causes of losses, location and repair of faulty equipment,
development of a rolling program for loss reduction, and training
of staff to implement the program. This function is temporary and
will be absorbed by the Management Services Division upon
completion of works.
5.      During the transition period and until new systems are developed,
some services, such as purchasing, financial services, and personnel records
will be provided by the municipality. Some functions, such as vehicle
maintenance, will continue to be provided by municipal workshops with
sufficient equipment. The WSDs will be charged for these services, however.
Staffing
6.      The numbe-r of staff involved in water and sewerage services as of
1986 is estimated in table 1. With the early addition of about 38 managerial
and technical staff, and with improved management and training, the existing
complement should be able to handle increases in operational, maintenance, and
force account investment activities until the 1990s. Allowances are made for
additional staff to man the new sewerage systems in Tarsus and Iskenderun.
TbliltI: STAFF OF WATER & SANITATION SERVICES
Adana         Mersin       Tarsus         Ceyhan          Iskeflderun
Existina    _bL   _S_ T     . 1i.   T   IL         T _wo   _  S   T    wL    s    T
Mgt./Professional  16    4   20    9   -   9   2    -   2    2   0    2    2     -    2
Skilled/Unskilled  354  1OS  459  209  40 a, 249  38    5 c/ 43   30   S   35   45   10  SS
Total    30 n in 1  7 Zu  40  ;i   Qf    I  4i   I   IE 37 '0   i2  o L 
Initial Recruitment
(Prof./mgt)            12             5             2               l
Total Proposed
(ultimate)            491           260             47            38                6S
a/ Includes 152 from water charges levying directorate.
h/ Allocated to sanitation from the technical Departmnt.
A/ Allocated to sanitation from Construction Services Directorate.
d/ Allocated from Water & Intercity Transport Directorate.
1/ Allocated to sanitation from the Technical Affairs Directorate.



- 150 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 19
Financial Position
7.       Past Performance.  The municipalities use the cash basis of
accounting for their operations. Because accounts are not kept by service and
debt service is not allocated to the functions for which the debt was
incurred, the regular accounts now kept by the municipalities provide little
useful information on water and sanitation operations. The consultants have
developed income statements for the period 1982-85 and opening balance sheets
for 1985 and 1986 (table 2) on the basis of special analyses separating
operational income and expenses, valuing existing assets (at replacement
cost), and identifying existing loans for water and sanitation operations of
each municipality.
8.       Adana failed to cover its operational costs in 1985 and 1986 (working
ratio of 1.27 and 1.39) for the water and sanitation operation. Ceyhan and
Tarsus ran cash surpluses in both years. Only Ceyhan made a profit (after
depreciation) in 1986. Although Iskenderun and Mersin recorded operational
deficits in 1985 and operational surpluses in 1986, they were still in deficit
in 1986 if depreciation was accounted for. These differences in performance
are related to substantial variations in costs, revenues (due to differences
in tariffs, composition of demand, and collection efficiencies). For example,
many commercial consumers (who pay high tariffs) in Adana and Mersin extracted
their own water, unlike Ceyhan where most commercial establishments were
connected to the public supply. Table 3 also shows that Adana's tariffs have
declined in real terms since 1980, wher3as they rose or remained constant
elsewhere. Collection rates in 1986 were estimated at 65 to 85 percent
depending on the municipality.
9.       Future Performance.  Forecasts have been prepared for the WSDs (ASKI)
which indicate that it will be feasible to achieve the financial objectives of
ensuring that all consumers will pay for water and sanitation services, and
that prices at the margin approximate average incremental cost. Revenues from
services, taken together, will cover (a) cash expenses for operation,
maintenance, and administration, (b) necessary increases in working capital,
(c) interest, (d) the larger of depreciation or amortization of debt, and (e)
a reasonable contribution to the costs of new capital investments.
10.      Summaries of the forecasts are given in tables 4 to 8.  Critical
parameters are given in the indicators and ratios sections of the tables for
each WSD. The following paragraphs describe the estimates and summarize the
main outcomes. The project file contains more detailed financial forecasts
and assumptions for each town. Although these analyses are based on extensive
investigations by engineers and financial analysts, the data available were
extremely rough and specific estimates are subject to substantial margins of
error. Nevertheless, it is believed that they are sufficiently robust to
support the conclusions drawn from them, namely, that the WSDs can indeed
improve water supply and meet financial targets with feasible tariff levels
and financing along the lines proposed.



-  151 -                                           ANNEX  11
Page  5 of 19
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2:  INCOME STATEMENT AND BALANCE SHEET 1985-86
-----Adana-----    ----Ceyhan----        ---Iskenderun--    ----Mersin----         ----Tarsus---
19I8      i2fi      12li       12M       i2BS        12A6    lilS       1986       12U        1286
Total Revenues           1,474      1,748      203        401       348         647     506        056        183        287
Total Expenses           1,867     2,437       169        220       380         495     698        905        179        234
Gross Income              (393)      (689)       34       180       (32)        152    (192)        51          4         53
Depreciation              14431      14841     £861       (91)    (2161        (2l17    fAi        A4142      (60).    L£.1
Net Income
before Interest        (836)   (1.137)      (54)        90      (248)        (65)   (600)      (373)       (S6)       (13)
Interest                  M63.        t6         71        £61      £111        L1      £l2.       £24.        L21        L21
Net Income                (899)   (1,249)      L6U$ 86             12661        1Z11   (6191     1            ISA )8     L1U.
Working Ratio             1.27       1.39       .83        .55     1.09         .76    1.38       0.95         .98       .815
Operating Ratio           1.57       1.67     1.27        .78      1.71        1.10    2.19       1.39       1.31       1.05
BALANCE SHEET
AAsets
Total Current Assets       386        476       20        166        84         226      135       220         44         64
Gross Fixed Assets    11,063    12,111    2,206         2.267    5.429        5.437  10,196    10.594       1,504      1.640
Less: Accuwulated
Depreciation         (5.0891   (S.Z721    (2271    LL.0181  (2.2aQ.    (2497Z1 (4L282)   (4.706S           163&.1     1626
Net fixed Assets         5.974     7.589    1.279       1,249    3.149        2.940   S.914      5.888        872        942
Assets under
Construction            1-048                            61..32Z - a...                                                 15
Total Fixed Assets      s794       Li75      1,279      l 0llt    L.1         L 2 948   S.914    6.28S        AZ&      1.QZZ
TOTAL ASSETS            6.360      8.062    1,299       1.476    3.233        3.174   6.049      6.50S        916      1,141
Liabilities
Accounts Payable           8a 6Z                42         6         25         11       1.S       V26         is         6a
Long-Term Liabilities
Iller Bank              476      2.458        37         54        87          73     153        592         12        167
Municipal Fund          421        42        6612       2         1.          L3      2.       1L171        6in        65AM
Total Liabilities        1.414     3Sk52       Z4.        841       M2A         341   1.27Z2     4.99 e2l 6Z2
Eguit.
Paid In Capital         S,845      6,708       612        612    3.176        3,176   5.389      S5.56        331        335
Retained Earnings         (899)   (2,148)      1611        31      £261       (345.   1612.     L (1040       .5)       1731
Total Equity            4.946      4.560       5l.        fin     2 909       2.4. 771   4   7764.6           2Z1        361
TOTAL LIABILITIES
& EQUITY              6.360      8.2    1299          t.476    3 233       3L174   60&41       6i           11141
Debt/Service
Ratio          -393/224=-1.8            34/49=.7          -32/S1=-0.6         -192/140=-1.4             4/46.1
-689/224=-3.1         181/50=3.6          152/S1=3.0          Sl/lS9=.3            53/49=1.08



- 152 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 19
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: HISTORICAL WATER TARIFFS IN DECEM°R 1985 PRICES
1980    1981    1982    198J    1984    1985    1986
ADANA
Domestic              41.25   34.96   39.39   40.26   36.20   40.00   33.15
2nd Block                          52.51
Commercial            82.50   69.92   65.64
2nd Block                           78.77   60.40   43.44   90.00   83.24
Official              82.50   69.92   52.51   40.26   36.20   40.00   33.15
2nd Block                                                   90.00   83.24
MERSIN
Domestic              41.25   52.44   65.64   60.40   57.92   60.00   58.93
2nd Block                                                            73.66
3rd Block                                                            88.39
Commercial           103.13  104.87  196.93  181.19  152.03  120.00  125.22
2nd Block                                                           132.59
3rd Block                                                           147.32
Official             123.75  174.79  157.54  140.92  115.83   80.00   58.93
2nd Block                                                            73.66
3rd Block                                                            88.39
TARSUS
Domestic              28.88   34.96   39.39   44.29   46.33   45.00   40.51
Commercial            61.88   52.44   52.51  100.66  115.83  110.00   95.76
Official              41.25   34.96   26.26  100.66   86.87   75.00   58.93
CEYHAN
Domestic                                       60.40   57.92   62.00   58.93
Commercial                                    120.79  144.79  185.00  147.32
2nd Block                                                           184.15
Official                                              115.83  150.00  220.98
ISKENDERUN
Domestic              33.00   45.44   47.26   44.29   52.12   66.00  106.81
Commercial            49.50   69.92   91.90   80.53   89.77   92.00  153.95
Official              49.50   69.92   65.64   60.40   62.26   67.00  134.06



EIPUBLIC Of tUR.i
CUKUROVA URBAN QEYELOPMENT PROJEC
Table4f    ADANA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE FORECASTS AND INDICATORS
A.   SUMKARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In==lmjStafrJZWt. 0M4l1                                 1987      1281     1212      1999 199              I "         923       ml29      1925       1926      1997
Water Charges
Oomestic                                       1,092    2,817    4,289    6,144        8.421    11,819    14,55s    18.291    22.238    26,972    33.044
Coummercial & Industrial                         449       969    1,62Y    2,329       3.145      4,355      S,429     6.756      8,39S    10,073    12.087
Official                                         255       361       511      699        943      1,337      1,610     1,938      2,331      2,798      3,359
Extraction Tariff                                  1.247    1,835    2.625    3.166       3,818      4,527      5,366      6,362     7.542      8.942    10.600
Sewerage Charge Over Well Use                       935    1,376    1,969    2,375        2,864      3,395      4.025      4.772     5.657      6.706      7.950
Maintenance Charge                                   175      210       252       297        384       489        603        753       931      1,145      1.387
Sewerage                                            449    1.369    2.312    3.577        5.254      7.880    10.365    13.492    16,482    19.922    24.245
Total Revenues                                       4,603    8,937   13,580   18,587    24,830    33,801    41,953    52,363    63,576    76.559    92.672
Employees Salaries                                1,798    2,079    2.479    4.700        5,440      6,429      7.634      8.981    10,462    12.382    14,666
Other Expenses                                   1.i1    2.087    2.791    4,013         4.846      5.69       661_       7.635      .83s    10.271    11929
Total Expenses                                       3,388    4,166    S.270    8,713    10.286    12,117    14.253    16,616    19,298    22,653    26.596
Gross Income                                         1,215    4.771    8,310    9,875    14,545    21,683    27,700    35.747    44,278    53,906    66,077
Depreciation                                        (823)  (16.96)  (3,011)  (4±420)   (6.052)   L7Z797)   (9.719)  (1L.295)  (14,713)  (18.059)
Income Befjre Interest                                 391    3,075    5.299    5.455       8.492    13.886    17,981    23,792    29,566    35,847    43,984            1
Interest Expense                                    606    3.219    5.431    7,313        8.808      9,759    10,063    10,094       9.991      9.804      9,530
Treasury Fee                                          38      218       167       173        150       147         54          a          0         0          0      sJ
Expense due to Exchange Variation                  _   o      2Z75_   1 .8Q.LL   302L .22 .     4. _290         4.709      lau i     5.084      5.065      4.962
Net Income                                            (253)    (637)  (2,099)  (5.123)   (4,S94)         (310)    3.155      8.680    14.491    20.978    29.488
Balance Sheet tjTLj
Assets
Total Current Assets                                 1,827    4,350    7,897   10,138    12,629    20,793    32,710    47,175    67,146    94.699   132.480
Fixed Assets
Project                                           2,430   18,591   46,184   75,542   109,319   145.324   180,931   213,766   248.490   288,249   334.368
Non-Project                                       18,148   23,816   29,100   34,949    41.993    49,613    62,041    85,102   119.328   163,225   217,946
Less:  Accumulated Oepreciation                     (7.7902ft 11.044) (16.2641 1236t2)J  L3L2A1)  147.13)  L6±.39)  (86.657) (115.235) (151.732)
(198,101)
Net Fixed Assets                                  12,788   31,363   59,019   86,880   117,397   147,799   178,573   212,211   252.583   299,742   354.212
Assets Under Construction                            3.7A87   1L231     9.861   lP.008       9.195     8.783      6.81       8.945    10.621    12.347    14.139
Total Assets                                        18,403   48,029   76,778  107,026   139,221   177.375   218.097   268.331   330,350   406.787   500,832
Liabilitie
Total Current Liabilities                              787       988    1,306    5,012       5,822     6,662      7,606      8.673      9,914    10,962    12.483
Total Long Term Liabilities                          3,551   26,464   43,624   59.986    70.504    79.070    80,731    80,377    79.111    77,020    74.253
Less Current Maturities               t3711    (423)   _547)  13.8961)   L44441  l(,qjj    5.637)   (6.350)   (7.155)   1.7734)
1.7q#)
Total Liabilities                                    3,966   27,029   44,384   61,102    71,882    80,727    82,700    82.700    81.870    80.248    78.029
QJ1LtY 
Paid-In Capital                                     4,894    4,894    4,894    4,894        4,894      4,894      4,894      4,894     4,894      4,894      4,894  CQ Z
Municipal Contribution                               7,061    8.449   10,164   12,266    15,026    18,352    22.327    27,075    32.748    38,619    44.694   m >
Contributed Capital Works (UEAS)                       229    1,131    2,766    3.870        5,541     6,557      7.123      8,086     9.203    10.499    12.003   .,
Connection Charges & Improvement Fees                  267    1,010    2,661    5,697        9,907    14,963    21,122    27,131    33,180    40,843    49,963   o
Retained Earnings                                     (253)    (889)  (2,988)  (8,111)  (12.705)  (13,01S)   (9,860)   (1,180)   13,311    34,289    63,777  t-tF
M4et Revaluation Account                           1229       64Z 1,9             730      1,7         487       8,9    11,2    12421           3197395   5124742
Total Equity                                        14-23     2400    14         45.9      67.33      96.64    t3S.39    18S.631   248 44         395   22 80
Total Liabilities & Equity                          18,403   48,029   76.778  107,026   139,221   177,375   218.097   268,331   330.350   406,787   500.832



Table 4 (Cont'd)
Sources and ArolicatIonl of ftuds
sources
Gross Internal Fund Generation               1,215    4,771    8,310    9,875    14.54S    21.683    27.700    3S,747    44.278    53,986    66.077 
Total Contributions (A)                      7.581    3.065    5,043    6.287      8.701      9.466    10.779    11.818    12,984    14.948    16.840
Borrowings:  1B0                            1.385    7,912    6,062    6,283      5.447      5.339     1,957       273          0         0         0
Municipal Fund                      0        0        0         0         0         0          0                   0          a         0
Iller Bank                       t1)  tS.097   9.72   7L534           4aJa      JL38t         a O.                            B         aQ
Total Borrowings                             1dMas   MLGM   16.782  1L3A8t        1Q.285      a.7h0     1.st7   2.    2 n-                            a OO
Total Sources                               10.180   30,846   29.136   29,979    33.S31    39.869    40.436    47,838    57,262    68,854    82.917
Applications
tnvestments:  Project                        4,321   24,180   19,228   19,387    17,638    16.648       6.231       966          0         0-        0
Non-Project                    2.2SI      453      494       628       752    . 1. ..3.I           16925    21.241    24.693    28.27
Total Investmnts                             7,574   24,632   19,723   20,015    18,390    17,566    13.629    17,891    21.241    24.693    28,278
Administrative fee                              38       218      167      173        150       147        54          8         0         0          0
Debt Service                                  1.335    3.590    5,853    7.860    12.704    14.203    15,068    15.731    16,341    16.959    17,264
Changes in Working Capital                   1.233    2.406    3.394    1          2.9287    .1254    tl.685    14.29    19ZI    27.201    37.37S
Total Applications                          10,160   30,846   29,136   29,979    33.531   3n,869    40,436    47.838    57,262    68.854    82.917
B.   I.NDCAIIIU
Rate of Return                                4.05S   13.93X   11.731    7.4U       8.31n    10.471    11.032    12.181    12.721    12.98X    13.45S
Operating Ratio                              91.50X   65.59    60.981   70.65    65.80S    58.92X    57.14X    54.562    S3.508    53.18X    52.541
Eebt/Debt+Equity Ratio                       19.741  S5.761   57.394   56.64S    51.15X    45.001    37.35    30.22X    24.15S    19.091    14.941
Debt Service Ratio                              0.9       1.3      1.4      1.3        1.1        .S       1.8        2.3       2.7       3.2        3.8
Debt Service Ratio Including Deposits
anW Fees                                 1.1       1.s      1.7      1.5       1.4        1.8       2.1       2.5        3.0       3.5       4.2
Net Internal Generation as X of Investwent (B)-12S         1%      1I%      201        291       311       56        728       731       76         791
NICG As X of 3-year Average Investment          -5        11      111      22X        32%       341       441        601       631    IC        NC
Z of Population Connected to Water              968       96X      961      961        96        961       961        971       971       971        971
Z Households Connected to Sewers                60X       621      671      71%        771       821       851        871       88a       91         931
Water Consued (mM) - Domestic                 28.56    29.44    31.22    32.61       34.02     Z5.37     36.73      38.92     40.79     42.65      45.04
- Official                1.95     2.22     2.35     2.46       2.56      2.67      2.77       2.87      2.98       3.08      3.19
- Comercial & Industrial    3.32       3.94     4.35      4.72      5.11      5.50       5.91      6.34      6.79       7.03      7.27
Average Household Charge                     17,690   40,265   54,S02   71.064    90,863   119,2"    139.726   164,155   188,487   219,949   259,176
Average tncremental Cost (Financial)         222.15
Block 1 Charge as Z of HM Income
Q 20th Percentile                        0.21      1.61     1.71     1.8%       1.91      2.01      2.01      2.01       1.91      1.81       1.81
Average Charge as Z of HN Average Income        1.11     2.11     2.31     2.41       2.51      2.81      2.71       2.71      2.61      2.51       2.5S
C.  IPITS
Population                                  81,000  904,000  9"8,000  990,000 1,033,000 1,074,000 1.11a.000 1,157,000 1.200,000 1.241.800 1.2850ooo
lSo. of Housdil                             166U860  176.908  187,352  197,211   207,547   218,293   228,953   240,041   254.237   264.213   274.573
Water Souros (I611ion I' p.a.)               89.0      89.0     89.0     89.0       89.0      89.0      89.0       89.0      89.0      B9.0       89.0
Water Potentiplly Beaching Consumer             381       401      431      461        SO       641       581        621       661       721        751
Population Connected                        826,560  867,840  910.080  950,400   991,680 1.031.040 1,070.400 1.122,290 1,164,000 1,204,546 1.246.450
S Illeoal Water Connections                      151      141      131       11        101        81         71        61        61        6a         61
Block 1 Donmestic Tariff in Constant Prices       0        60       65       70         75        80        80         80        80        80         80
Block 2                           *               SS      100      110       120       130       150        150       150       150        SO       150
Block 3                                          109      160      200      220        230       250       250        250       250       250        250
Collection Efficiency Factor - Domestic         701       751      80t      83X        851       861       871        881       881       88X       681
Official Tariff in Constant Prtces               55       100      110       120       130       150        150       150       150        150       1SO
Commercial Tariff In Constant Prices             109      160      200      220        230       2S0       250        250       250       250        250
1 Block 1 ConsuiPtion of Domestic               251       501      501      501        501       501       501        501       501       501        501       'rd t
% Block 2 Consu%ption of Domestic                701      451      45      45X        451       45S        4SX       451       45X       45X        451       01 Z
X Block 3 Consumption of Domestic                S5        5Z      S        51         St       5          51        5X        St        58         St        ( D
Sewer Charge as % of Water Charge               251       33       3a4      391        42t       451       48         50t       50        SOx 501               a
(A) Total Contributions Include:  Deposits, Connection Charges, Itrovwmnt Fees, UEA Works, 8 Municipal Contributions                                           a-
(6) Net Internal Cash Generation (NICG) Includes:  Charges, fees, & UFA Works donated by HUOC when land is sold



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table : MERSIN WATER SUPPLY 8 SEWERAGE FORECASTS AND INtICATORS
A.   SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
LnOmN. Statement (MTL)               198                    7    A  19  8        12Q        190 1922            121        1994  19 i          1          1997
Water Charges
Domestic                                       974    1,354    1,954    2,643      3.895      5,046     6,335     8.0s0    10.110    12.S21    15.513
Comnercial & Industrial                        226       285      359      447       629        780       957     1,174      1.438     1,757     2.147
Official                                       213       48s      664      868      1,224     1.534     1.8U4     2.316      2,843     3,479     4,260
Extraction Tariff                                  92       173      291      393        580       809     1.095     1.272      1,477     1.715     1.991
Sewerage                                          353        01L 1.072    1.544    iL              U 3.312   4,404   S.770      7J.96    8.879    10.960
Total Revenues                                    1.858    2,998    4,340    5.895       0.743    11,481    14,675    18,5U      23,064    28,351    34,870
Egnployees Salaries                               745    1,118    1,576    1,797       1,946     2,590     3.076     3.652      4,356     5,123     6,029
Other Expenses                                   -24        893   1.272    L573       L2.38      2.48      2.840     3.23z      3711      4.239     4.834
Total Expenses                                     1.369    2,011    2,848    3.369      3,983     5.077     5.915      6.883     8.067     9.362    10.863
Gross Income                                        489       987    1,492    2,526      4,759     6.403     8.760    11.699    14,997    18.989    24.007
Depreciation Expense               t6111  (1012   (1665) L2L4AI 6                      i3.308)   1.4227)   (   180)   (6.241    L7516)   (9.036
{ 10.8531
Met Income Before Interest                          (122)     (26)    (173)      110     1.460     2.176     3.581      s.4s8     7,480     9,9S3    13.154
Interest Expense                                  189       802    1.232    1,999     2.604      2,987     3.121     3.136      3.112     3,062     2,979
Treasury Fee                                        3        7s       87       84         78        61        13          0         0         0         0
Expense due to Exchange Variation                   O        21      539    *.&66      1.662     1.807    1.984      2.073      22091     2.0a3     2.043
Net Income                                         (314)    (925)  (2,032)  (3.138)   (2.883)   (2,679)   (1,S37)         249     2.277     4.808     8.132
Balance Sheet (14TL1
Assets
Total Current Assets                                5E1    1,237    2.862    4.77s       4,805     S.912     9,204    12.821    18.879    29,139    43.740
Fixed Assets
ProJect                                           48s    5.938   17,683   31,819    48,396    6s,687    81,225    95.172   110.399   128,063   148.553
Non-project                                    14.795   19,373   23,936   28,571    34.095    39.997    48,264    60.842    77.s02    97.833   122,769
Less:  Accuulated Depreciation                   0L 004L   (9L417. it2.965) (17 714   .24 202  (32 302) LS2,6h0) I55.71SZ  (72 14J5   (92 7241
X 178.4131
Net Fixed Assets                                  8,276   15,894   28.655   42,676    58,288    73,382    86,839   100.29    1157,56   133,171   152.909
Assets Under Construction             _1.414   4.922   &.2S    5.50                     5.25 4 4e000         234    2.992         3421    3.922    4.673
Total Assets                                     10,261   22,0s8   36,815   S2,500    68.347    83,294    98.427   116,111   138.055   166.233   201.322
Total Current Liabilities                           321       477      637    2,197      2,596     2,991     3.372      3.811     4,308     4,762      5.395
Total Long Term Liabilities                       3.899    9,894   14.430   22,662    27,795    31,469    31.694    31.296    30,646    29,683    28.447
Less Current Maturities                          (153.     (228) .281)  1L741)  t1.9891       t2.230)   t2.4711   t2i741f   13.046)  13,280.
Total Liabiltties                                 4,067   10,143   14,785   23,118    28,402    32,229    32,595    32,366    31,908    31,165    30.192
Paid-in Capital                                   4,189    4,189    4.189    4.189      4.189      4.189     4.189     4,189      4,189     4,189     4,189
Municipal Contribution                                 0    2.772    7,s80    7,580      7.580     7.580     7.580      7.580     7,580     7.s80      7.580   ' f
Contributed Capital Works (UCA)                     545    1.356    2,348    3,207       4,954    5s979      6.845      7.439     8,125     8,922     9,E46   0 
Connection Charges & Improvement fees                178      950    3,094    6,638      9,728    12.436    15.622    18.368    21.246    25.452    30.464 x  I
Retained Earnings                                  (314)  (1,239)  (3.271)  (6,409)   (9,292)  (11,971)  (13,508)  (13,259)  (10,982)   (6.174)   1,958 
Net Revaluation Account                           1.49    142    8.087   14.176    22i785    324a52   4s.10           S9442      7.98.9 95.099 117092
Total Equity                                     6.,13   11.914   22,029   2913.2    39.945    5l.06s    65832    83.745   106J4    135.06    121.3130   °
Total Liabilities & Equity                       10,261   22,057   36,814   52,500    68.347    83,294    98.426   116,110   138,055   166,232   201,322
to.



Table S (Cont'd)
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Gross Internal Fund Generation                       489       987    1,492    2.526      4.759      6.403     8.760    11.699    14.997    18.989    24,007
Total Contributions (A)                              736    4,373    7,966    4.430       4.871      3.775     4.103      3,407     3.639      S.o4     6.053
Borrowings:  IBRD                                     108    2,738    3.169    3,041      2,8U2      2.215       471          0          0         0          0
Municipal Fund                          725    1,129       S52    1.436        787       547          0         0          0         0          0
Iller Bank                            1.451 S  2.259       74    2.872       1.574     1.094        Q           Q          Q         Q
Total Borrowings                                   2-z24    6.J2.     4.J22S   7.348      S.214      3.856       471          0          o      _   Q
Total Sources                                      3,509   11,486   13.682   14.303    14.845    14,034    13,335    15.106    18.636    24,084    30.061
AficaRtions
Investments:  Project                                86,    8,876   10,320    9.777    10.129        7.551     1,760          0          0         0          0
Non-Project                          1,i66      978         2?s    322        378       450      3.00.     5.983 .341    7L85 i            9.3L
Total Investments                                  2.828    9.8s3   10.596   10,099    10.508        8.001     4,769      5.983     6,841      7,845     9.346
Administration Fee                                      3       75        87       84         78        61         13         0          0         0          0
Debt Service                                          337      955    1.460    2,280      4,345      4.976     s.351      S.607     s,853      6,108     6.259
Changes in Working Capital                            311      602    1.54p   1.840          .86    .      _   9  3.202    3.516     5.41I    10.131    14.455
Total Applications                                 3.509   11.486   13.682   14,303    14.845    14,034    13,335    1S,106    10.636    24.084    30.061
B.    NDZICATO
Rate of Return                                     -1.781   -0.21S   -0.781    0.31S        2.89X     3.30%      4.471     5.83S      6.92X     8.001
9.201
Operating Ratio                                    106.57X  100.86X  103.98S   98.131    83.301    81.05S    7s.601    70.631    67.571    64.891
62.281
Debt/Equity Ratio                                  38.631   45.37X   39.581   43.541    41.031    38.131    32.50X    27.20S    22.401    18.021
14.25S
Debt Service Ratio                                    1.5      1.0       1.0      1.1        1.1       1.3        1.6       2.1        2.6-      3.1        3.8
Debt Service ratio including Deposits
& Connection                                   2.0       1.9      1.9       1.8       1.4        1.6       2.0        2.5       3.0        3.5       4.3        U'
Net Internal Generation as S of Investment (B)        19%      101       151      271       S0%        521        901     lo0        1001      1001       lOO1 00
SICG as % of 3-year Average Investment                 7X       91       151      291        681       661        73X       871        85S        NC         MC        I
X of Population Connected To Water                    821      88S       91X      931        951       961        97X       98X        981       98t        98X
S Households Connected to Sewers                      341     S1        631      691        751       801        831       851        871       881        901
Water Consumed (m3) - ODmestic                      9.75   .10.58    11.40    12.21        14.74     15.80      16.91     18.32      19.62     20.94      22.37
Official                    2.38      2.48     2.59      2.71      3.20       3.40      3.60       3.81      4.04       4.26      4.49
Commercial & Industrial    0.99       1.03     1.07      1.12      1.32       1.40      1.48       1.56      1.65       1.74       !.83
Average Household Cahrge                          21.771   41.789   52.553   64.044    85.049   100.722   118.290   139.016   162.182   188.805   219.319
Average Incremental Cost (Financial)               164.42
Block I Charge as X of HH Income
* 20th Percentile                          1.28X    1.681    1.67t    1,661       1.651      1.63X     1.62X      1.591     1.541      1.50.     1.461
Average Charge as X of fHi Average Income           1.41%    2.15S    2.19X    2.18X      2.J8%      2.34X      2.30X     2.261      2.21X     2.15X      2.09X
C.   SUMMARY ASSlIMPTUONS
Population                                       359.000  383.000  408,000  434.000   462.000   490.000   S19.000   550,000   582.000   614.000   648.000
No. of Households                                 69,981   75,246   80.632   86.454    92,771    99.190   105,918   113,636   120,Z"8   128,721   137,288
Water Sources (wm3)                                    32       32        32       32         41        41         41        41         41        40         40
Water Potentially REaching Consumers                  411      43X       461      49S        511       541        581       621        671       711        751
S Illegal Water Connections                           141      101        7S       61        S         41         41        41         41        41         41
Block I Domestic Tariff in Constant Prices             55       70        70       70         70        70         70        70         70        70         70
Block 2 Domestic Tariff in Constant Prices             68      120       130      135        135       135        135       135        135       135        135
Block 3 Domestic Tariff in Constant Prices             89      185       200      210        210       210        210       210        210       210        210
Collection Efficiency Factor - omestic                80s      811       831      851        87X       89t        901       911        921       921        921      0
Official Tariff in Constant Prices                     68      120       130      135        135       135        135       135        135       135        135    0o
Com  ercial Tariff in Constant Prices                 173      173       173      173        173       173        173       173        173       1          173
% Block 1 Copsutmtion of Domestic                     SO5      501       SO%      SO5        501       S01        501       SO        SO       501        50 SOo
V Block 2 Consumption of Domestic                     45X      45       451      451        451       451        45       451        4SX       45S        45X      0
SBlock 3 Consumption of Domestic                       St       5X        5X       SX                                        51         5S        5X         51
Sewer Charge as X of Water Charge                     251      33S       36t      39S       42X        45S       481        S0         SOX       so5        SOX%
Notes:    (A) Total Contributions Include:  Deposits. Connection Charges, Imrovement Fees. UEA Works. Municipal Contributions
(B) Met Internal Cash Generation (NICG) includes: charges, Fees, & UEA Works donated by HUOC



REPU8LIC OF TURKEY
CUIKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6:   TARSUS WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE FORECASTS AND INDICATORS
A.  SUMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Income Statement  4TL` I                                       1988     1989     1990       199?      t992       1993      1994       1995      t996      1992
Water Charges
Domestic                                        390      664    1.037    1,497      2,152      2,719     3.333      4.082     5,190      6,358     7.805
Official                                         67      101       137      199        288       381       466        564       691        836     1.013
Comercial & Industrial                           16       34        51       67         91       111        136       164       202        244       296
Extraction Tariff                                   32       53        83      120        171       204        244       291       348        416       497
Maintenance Cahrge                                  40        SS       76       102       136       172        215       263        324       394        479
Sewerage                                           _      _ 304       712    1.330      2351      3402    _4.5RC    6.013        7.718    9.674    12.161
Total Revenues                                       613    1,211    2,100    3.316       5.188     6.988      8,973    11.377    14,472    17,922    22,250
Employees Salaries                                 166      307       362      435        538       648        800     1,172      1.372     1.621     1,921
Other Expenses                                     lii      129       462      sg         n77       918      1.076     !.287      i.9       1.746     2.031
Total Operating Expenses                             376      637       831   1l015       1.315     1,566      1,876     2,459      2,871     3.367     3.952
Gross Income                                         237       575    1.270    2,300      3,873     5.422      7.097     8.919    11,601    14.555    18.298
Oepreciation Expense                               l2                 km       979      1.36      1.7S3      2.176     2.665      3.269    4.302      4.888
Net Income Before Interest                           105       227      616    1,321      2,508     3.669      4,921     6.2S3      8.332    10,SS3    13,410
Interest Expense                                   125      468       857    1.276      1.SS7     1,684      1,756     1,776      1.765     1.738      1.694
Treasury Fee                                         7        53       32       48         37        34         13         1          0         0          0
Expense Due to Exchange Variation                    O       S3       420      680        961     1.007      1.103     1.1      1.188    l.lk4       1.161
Net Income                                           (26)    (347)    (694)    (682)        (47)      944      2,049     3,301      5,378     7,630    10,555
Balance Sheet INTL) 
Total Current Assets                                 158       343    1.132    2.288      3.161     4.977      8,479    12.454    18.427    26.894    38.612
Fixed Assets
Project                                            516    4,510   11.010   18,133    26,584    35,027    43,346    51,071    59.288    68.774    79.778
Non-Project                                      2.775    4,184    5,335    6,338       7,S32     8,802    11.043    15,566    22,438    31,285    42,413
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                   11.0711  LLii2U  !2.624)  i4.07S)   16L1731   I8.9141  Ll2iS61  ()Z.184)  2l.3202) Z      00917
(40,7S2)
Net Fixed Assets                                   2.213    7,052   13.721   20.397    27.943    34,915    41,873    49,453    58.524    69.142    81,440
Assets Under Construction                            969   3.344    2.031   2.725    2.082          1.8Z8      1.426     1.857      2.243     2.623      3.0
Total Assets                                       3.339   10,738   16,884   25.410    33,186    41,750    51,778    63,763    79.195    98.659   123,098
Liabilities
Total Current Liabilities                            158       247      349    1,229      1,422     1.S99      1.792     2,019      2.270     2.524      2,847
Total Long Term Liabilities                        2.569    6,348   10,028   14,896    17,088    18.352    18.602    18.353    17.936    17.343    16.568
Less Current Maturities                          JloJl   .1S61     (2221  (I.0Cll   (11941.1231 11.19)   (1,44A     1.606)  LL7771  L1.936
Total Liabilities                                  2,626    6.439   10.15S   15.063    17,316    18,632    18,941    18.767    18.430    17,931    17,267
Eau
Paid-In Capital                                      215      215       215      215        215       215        215       215        215       215        215
Manicipal Contribution                                 0    2,336    2,336    2,336       2,336     2,336      2,336     2,336      2.336     2,336      2.336
Contributed Capital Works (UEA)                      131       627    1,187    1.505      1.687     1.693      1,909     2.166      2,465     2.811      3,213
Connection Charges. ImProvement Fees                  36       262      878    1.962      3,246     4.758      6,363     8,002      9.853    12.086    14.715
Retained Earnings                                    (26)    (373)  (1,067)  (1.749)   (1,796)       (852)    1,196      4,498     9,876    17.507    28,062
Net Revaluation Account                              39    1.232    3.180    6.078    10.182    14.968    20.817    27.779    36.029    45.773   S.7289    0Q S
Total Equity                                         713    4.299   6.7Z9   10.347    1S.870    23.114    32.837    44.997    60.765    80.728   105.830           j
Total Liabilities & Equity                         3,339   10,738   16,884   25.410    33.186    41.750    51.778    63,763    79,195    98,659   123.098
0



Table 6  Cont d)
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Sources
Gross Internal Fund Generation                 237      575    1.270    2,300       3,873     5.422    7,097       8,919    11.601    14,555    16,298
Total Contributions (A)                        171    3,065    1,684    1,411       1,479     1,534      1,840     1,917      2,178     2.614      3,072
Borrowings:  18R0                              266    1,916    1,177    1,730       1,332     1,235        466        29          0         0          0
Municipal Fund                   616       765      895    1,072        384         86         0          0         0          0         0
Iller Bank                       924    1.147    1.343    1.608         57         is          o          O                  o          Q
Total Borrowings                             1.801    3.82?    3.415    4.419       2.Z21     1AS1         4          29          a         a          O
Total Sources                                2.215    7,467    5,869    8.122       7.644     8,407      9.403    10.865    13.779    17.169    21,370
ADD1icat1ons
Investments:  Project                          918    6,155    4,024    5,410       4,108     3,650      1,376        86          0         0          0
Ron-Project                   1.9020      S32       39    ..41          BS         65     1.477      3.12.    4&487      S.24?      6.092
Total Investments                            1,937    6,688    4,063    5,451       4,163     3,715      2,853     3,713      4,487     5,247      6,092
Administration Fee                               7       53        32       48         37        34         13         1          0         0          0
Debt Service                                   184      569    1,013    1,498       2,619     2,879      3,075     3,229      3,371     3,515      3,630
Changes In Working Capital                      8t6      157      261    128 1.12   n.i       177        3,462    3.922       5.922     8.407    11U64a
Total Applications                           2.215    7.467    5,869    8,122       7,644     8,407      9.403    10.865    13.779    17,169    21.370
B. fX!IC&AIDI
Rate of Return                                6.81%    4.90X    5.93%    7.75%    10.38%    11.67%    12.82X    13.69%    15.43%    16.53%    17.81%
Operating Ratio                              82.80%   81.27%   70.68%   60.15%    51.66%    47.50%    45.16%    45.04%    42.43%    41.12%    39.73%
Debt/Equity Ratio                            78.27%   59.62%   59.84%   59.01%    51.85%    44.25%    36.16%    28.97%    22.79%    17.68%    13.54%
Debt Service Ratio                             1.3       1.0      1.3       1.5       1.5       1.9        2.3       2.8        3.4       4.1        5.0
Debt Service Ratio
Including Oeposits & Connection             1.5      1.4       1.7      2.0        1.8       2.2        2.6       3.1        3.8       4.5        5.4
Net Cash Generation as % of Investments (B) 6.7%       7.8%    S5.9%    19.1%       44.9%     60.9%      83.7%     99.2%    100.0%    100.0%    100.0%
NICG as % of 3-year Average Investment        3.4%    10.6%    15.3%    24.3%       54.2%     69.2%      69.6%     87.9%      90.9%    NC         NC
% of Population Connected to Water             90%       91%      92%      93%        95%       96%        96%       96%        96%       96%        96%
% of Households Connected to Sewers            14%       29%      43%       S4%       65%        73%       79%       83%        8s5       87%        89%
Water Consumed (m3):  Domestic                S.67      S.56     5.90     6.21       6.66      7.05       7.37      7.78       8.23      8.69       9.20            oo
Official              0.18     0.19      0.20     0.21       0.22      0.23       0.24      0.25       0.26      0.27       0.28             1
Commercial & Industrial  0.37       0.39     0.41      0.42      0.44       0.47      0.49      0.51       0.53      0.55       0.58
Averae Nousehold CahrVe                     21,611   42,687   59,649   78,735   102,500   121,626   142,495   .68.051   201,996   234.641   273.095
Average Incremental Cost (Financial)        306.83
Block 1 Cahrge as X of HH income
* 20th Percentile                        1.2%     1.9%      2.1%     2.3%       2.5%      2.5%       2.5%      2.5%       2.4%      2.3%       2.2%
Average Charge as % of HH11 Aveiage Income    1.4%     2.2%      2.5%     2.7%       2.9%      2.8%       2.8X      2.7%       2.8%      2.7%       2.6%
C.  SUJMARY ASSUPONS
Population                                 176,000  184,000  193,000  201,000   211,000   221.000   231,000   241,000   252,000   263.000   275,000
No. of Households                           34,043   35,938   38,067   40,040    42,369    44.828    47.336    49,793    52.610    55.485    58,5l1
Water Sources (wuS)                             16        16       16        16        18         18        18        18         18         18        18
Water Potentially Reaching Consumer (X)        53%       SS%      S8%      61%        64%       67%         ..       73%        75%       75%        75%
% Ille2al Water Connections                  10.0%     9.0%      7.0%     6.0%       5.0%      4.0%       4.0%      4.0%       4.0%      4.0%       4.0%
Block 1 Domestic Tariff in Constant Prices    55          70       80       90        100       100        100       100        100       100        100
Block 2 Domestic Tariff in Constant Prices    69        110       130      140        150       150        150       150        150       150        1SO
Block 3 Domestic Tariff in Constant Prices   137         160      170      200        230       250        250       250        250       250        250
Collection Efficiency Factor - Domestic        80%       82%      85%      88%        90%       91%        92%       92%        92%       92%        92%
Official Tariff in Constant Prices              69       110      130       140       150        150       15o        I5o       150       5so        15O
Commercial Tariff in Constant Prices           137       160      170      200        230       250        250       2SO        250       2SO        250
X Block 1 Conswtption of Domestic              50%       55%      55%       55%       55%        55%       SS%       55%        SO%       50%        50%
X Block 2 Consumption of Domestic              45%       42%      42%      42%        42%       42%        42%        42%       45%       45S%       45%
% Block 3 Consumption of Domestic               5%        3%       3%        3%        3          3X                             5 3X  %    S 
Sewer Charge as % of Water Cahrge               0X      33%       36%      39%        42%       45X        48%       50%        50%       50%        50%
(A) Total Contributions Include:  Deposits. Connection Charges,
Improvement Fees, UEA Works, & Municipal Contributions
(8)  Met Internal Cash Generation (NICG) Includes: Charges, Fees. & UEA Works donated by HUDC                                                                     °



R£PuEtlC OF TURKEY
CUKUROVA URIAN DOEELOPMENT PROJECT
ITle 7: CEYHAN WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE FORECASTS AND INDICATORS
A.  SUMWARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Incame Stateaent KnTL)                                121_      Ji1 1989                122Q1           1922      1293       1994      199S       122!      1927
water Charges
Domestic                                        300      410       540      712        916     1,190      1.426     1,748      2,137     2,609      3.181
Commercial 8 Industrial                         135       177      231      286        355       434        516       617        741       889      1.066
Official                                         94       116      145       177       216       262        311        372       450       543        654
Extraction Tariff                                   13        18       25        30        35        41         47         SS        64         74        85
Sewerage                                            66        94      132       206       348       498        644        827       998      1.z21     1.490
Total Revenues                                       607       814    1,073    1.412      1.870      2,425     2,944      3.620     4.390      5,336     6.476
Employees Salaries                                 198       271      324      405        499       613        741        878     1.056      1,266     1.516
Other Expenses                                     12_       17S      2m1                  ii 361    421       498        S87       672 n76             __M
Total Expenses                                       322       446      572       703       860      1,034     1,238      1,466     1,728      2,042     2,412
Gross Income                                         285       368      SO1       709     1,010      1.390     1.706      2,154     2.661      3.294     4,064
Depreciation                                       12n       Z3       131      52_       fin         12      1Q37       1.227     1.53       1.847     2.21t
Income Before Interest                               161       136      113       181       330       S55        669        877     1.12S      1,448     1,847
Interest Expense                                    26       13S      241       330       407       443        491        533       546        548       536
Treasury Fee                                         1        29       14        14         9          6        12          0         0          0         0
Expense due to Exchange Variation                   Q3          .     204       320       404        39S       401        456       MRl        31        449
Net Income                                            134      (33)    (346)    (483)      (489)      (286)     (234)      (112)       120       442       862
Balance Sheet tNTLI
Assets
Total Current Assets                                 269       318      442       56S       5;2        913     1,252      1.727     2,345      3,144     4,497
Fixed Assets
Project                                             43    1.926    5,025    7,630    10,359    13.045    16.340    19.656    22.801    26.450    30.682
Non-Project     *                                3,071    3,865    4.676    S,567       6,632      7,766     9.574    12.265    1S.605    19.714    24.755
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                     II.So?)  (2.040i   t2.8361 i 3,iZ4i   tS.251   (6.9240   1 .021   (11.796)   lS.2L9) LI.9II11
Net Fixed Assets                                 1.607    3,751    6,865    9,323    11,740    13.888    16,846    20.126    23.187    26.663    30,599
Assets Under Construction                             1is    1.680      821       785       515    __ SOS .136              S87       6x8        aos       943
Total Assets                                       2.063    5.750    8,128   10.674    12,787    15.305    19.235    22,440    26.220    30.612    36.038
L1abilities
Total Current Liabilities                             99       190      246       592       666        743       868        967      1,074     1.175     1,294
Total Long Term Liabilities                        1,111    4.042    5.514    6,9So       7,567      7.922     9,422      9,558     9,462      9,051     8,567
Less Current Naturities                            162)    i144)    tl83)   tII2)    JS67)          l624)     tr2i)      (Zt7)    J86S)    J933)
( * .010)
Total Liabilities                                  1.142    4.088    5,577    7.030       7,66S      8,041     9,565      9,728     9,667      9.293     8,851
Ecuitx
Paid-In Capital                                      455       4SS      455       4SS       455        455       4554s                455        45S       455
mnmicipal Contribution                                  0        0        0         0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
Contributed Capital Works (UEA)                         0      221      364       433       466        778       876        9S1     1,038      1.138     1,256
Connection Charges & Inprovement Fees                  10       SS       148      273       413        569       758      1,004     1,315      1,709     2,192
Retained Earnings                                     134      101     (245)    (728)   (1.218)   (1,504)   (1.738)   (1,850)   (1.730)   (1,288)
t426) >
(et Revaluation Account                                        8302 .3  1.83Q    3.210    5.006      6s6       9.319    12.1S2    1S.474    19.304    23.721    oQ 5
Total Equity                                         921    1.662    Z.SS1    3.644       S.122      72.26     9.67D    12.712    16.SS3    21.31       27.187    w j
0I
I:-
t'h



Table   (Cont d)
Sources and AD1 lications of Funds
Sam=
Gross Internal Fund Generation               285       368     51        709      1.010     1.390      1.706     2.154      2.661     3.294      4.064
Total Contributions (A)                       12       268      237       198        175       474        291       328        411       506        613
Borrowings:  IM31                             26    1,053       517       499       321        211       429          0          0         0          0
Miunicipal Fund                279    1.552        717      641        322       253      1,036       324        193          0         0
Iller Sank                      ?Q       38a       179      160M         1       _3         259        _1         48         I          I
Total Borrowings                             21_    299n      141i    1. Z992n                 52?      1.72       405        242        1           o
Total Sources                                671    3,628    2.151    2,206       1,909      2,391      3.720     2.887      3.314     3.800      4.677
AD1li catin
Investments:  Project                         76    3,332    1.603    I,S18         969        936      1.300         0          0         .0         0
Non-Project                    222       28        39       53         62        73        973     1.17S      1.37$      1.610     1,IIS
Total Investments                            375    3.360    1,642    1,571        1,031     1,010      2,273     1,175      1.375     1.610      1,885
Administrative Fee                              1       29        14       14          9         6         12         0          0          0         0
Debt Service                                  76       202      365       514       919      1,010      1.15S    1,259       1.343     1.417      1,469
Changes In Working Capital                   nfl        37       llO      108        f491      366        321       4S4        596        774    1323
Total Applications                           671    3.628    2.151    2,206        1,909     2.391      3,720     2,687      3,314     3.800      4.677
8.   INIZ CATORS
Rate Of Return                            11.60%    6.08%    2.13%    2.24%       3.13%      4.35%     4.36%      4.75%      5.20%     5.81%      6.45%
Operating Ratio                           73.54%   83.27%   89.46%   87.17%    82.36%    77.00%    77.26%    75.76%    74.37%    72.87%    71.49%
Debt/Equity Ratio                         54.67%   70.86X   68.37%   65.60%    59.63%    S2.17%    49.35%    42.92%    36.37%    29.80%    23.96%
Debt Service Ratio                           3.8       1.8      1.3       1.4        1.1       1.4        1.5       1.7        2.0       2.3        2.8
Debt Service Ratio
including Deposits 8 Connection         3.9      2.1       I.S       1.6       1.3        1.S       1.7        1.9       2.2        2.6        3.1          1
Net Internal Cash Generation
as % of Investment                      0X      llX       14%       17%       30X        48%       24%        66%       82%       100%       100%
NICI as X of 3-year Average Investment        OX       17%      16%       23%       21%        32%        34%       56%        70%    NC         NC             O
8 of Population Connected to Water           95%       96%      96%       97%       97%        98%        98%       98%        98%       98%        98%
% of Households Connected to Sewers          S0%       54X      58%       59%       58X        59%        60%       60%        60%       60X        61%
Water Consumed (KM3) - Domestic             2.50      2.64     2.71      2.80       2.87      2.99       3.06      3.20       3.37       3.55   . 3.73
- Official            0.19     0.19      0.20     0.20       0.21       0.22      0.22       0.23      0.24       0.25       0.26
- Commercial & Industrial 0.31       0.32     0.32      0.33      0.34       0.35       0.36      0.37       0.39      0.40       0.41
Average Household Charge                  46,125   SS,"91   66,532   82,115   103,546   124,692   146.135   174,104   200,144   233,957   273.478
Average Incremental Cost (Financial)    266.71
Block 1 Charge As X of NH Income
Q 20th Percentile                     2.7%     2.6X      2.5%     2.5%       2.7%       2.7%      2.7%       2.6%      2.5%       2.5%       2.4%
Average Charge as X of tH Average Income  3.0%        2.9%     2.8%      2.8%      2.9%       2.9%       2.8%      2.8%       2.7%      2.7%       2.6%
C.  SUMMARY ASSU"PTTS
Population                                80o000   82.000   84.000   86.000    88,000    91.000    93,000    96.000   100.000   104,000   108.000
No. of HousehelOs                         15,504   16,047   16.601   17,131    17,706    18.496    19,097    19,917    21,186    22,128    23.077
Water Sources (mm)                            20        20        20       20         20        20         20        20         20         20        20
Water Potentially Reaching Consumers (%)46.00%   48.00%   51.00%   54.00%    57.00%    59.00%    62.00%    65.00%    69.00%    73.00%    75.00%
X Illegal Water Connections                   5X        St       5%         t         %                              4X         4 4%       4X
Block I Domestic Tariff in Constant Prices 11S         115      11S       15         11        1          115       115        115       115        115
Block 2                                      146       146      146       146        146       146        146       146        146        146       146
Block 3     '       ^      *       *    *    194       194      194       220       230        250        250       250        250       250        250
Collection Efficiency Factor - Dometic       65%       70%      75%       80%       85%        90%        90%       90%        90%       90%        90%
Official Tariff in Constant Prices           376       376      376       376        376       376        376       376        376        376       376
Commercial Tariff in Constant Prices         376       376      376       376        376       376        376       376        376        376       376
X Block 1 Consumption of Domestic            50%       SS%      55%       55%        SS%       55%        55%       50X        50%        50%       50X
% Block 2 Consumption of Domestic            45%       42%      42%       42%       42%        42%        42%       47%        47%       47%        47%
X Block 3 Consumption of Domestic             St        3%        3S       3%         3%        3%         3X        3%         3%         3%        3           z
Sewer Charge as X of Water chargE            25%       25%      25%       30%       40S        45X        48% XSot             50%       SO%        sox
(A)  Total Contributions Include:  Deposits, Connection Charges, Keprovement Fees, UEA Wafrs. &  un1icipal Contributions                                     o  -
(8)  N. 'nternal Cash Generation Includes, Chargs, fees, UEA Watrs paid for in price of land sold



REPUBLIC OF TURKE
CUKUROVA UIMAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8: ISKENDERUN WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE
A.   SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Income Statement (HTL1                                 18       18        18       19         1991      12         t9         JI        1 1226               1i
Water Charges
Oomestic                                        573       965    1,466    1,996      2,711      3,518      4.409     S,538      6,883     8,527    10.535
Cormercial a Industrial                          160      203       262      327        409       503        614       750        916     1,115      1.356
Official                                         203      263       350      442        572       708        a69     1,067      1.310     1.603      1,957
Extraction Tariff                                   122      188       283      488        796       937      1,103      1,299     1,530      1,801     2.120
Maintenance Charge                                   23       36        53       73         96        125       157        197       244        301       368
Sewerage                                             79      224    _4           98        924     1.458      1.979     2.Li       3.335    4.149    5.226
Total Revenues                                      1,159    1.880    2,778    3,924       5,509      7.251     9,132    11,511    14,217    17,496    21,563
Employees Salaries                                  339      690       821    1,205      1,803     2,235      2,764     3,309      3.946     4,650      5.494
Other Expenses                                      2Q2      420       612      80        . 1so  107  .2?4    1.40       1.719     2011       235'      2,746
Total Expenses                                        628    1.111     1,433    2,014      2,876     3,510      4,244     5,028      5,957      7.007     8.240
Gross Income                                          531      769    1,345    1.910       2,633      3.742     4,888      6,483     8,260    10.489    13.323
Depreciation Expense                                292      547       982    1.520      2,177     2.808      3,469     4.254      S,227     6,410      7,840
Income Before Interest                                239      223       363      390        456       934      1,419     2,229      3,033      4,079     5,483
Interest Expense                                    133      440       698      984      1,325     1,753      1,943     2.150      2,441      2.726     3.018
Treasury Fee                                          7       73        60       88         67        45         18          5         0          0         0
Expense due to Exchange Variation                    Q        54       5S8    1.013      1.527     1.640      1.755      1.8S7     1.893      1.886     1.8SL
Net Income                                             99     (344)    (954)  (1.695)   (2.463)   (2,504)   (2.297)   (1.783)   (1,301)          (533)      615
Balance Sheet (MTLI
Assets
Total Current Assets                                  525      770    1.728    2.590       1,771     2.762      4,319      6,105     7.376      9.925    13,128
fixed Assets
Project                                             448    5,395   14,618   26,246    40.530    54.055    66654    78,744    91,643   106,306   123,315
Mon-Project                                       6.851    8.275    9,945   11,752    13,892    16,148    20,067    27,600    39,029    53.936    72,687
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                    (3.685)  (4.96)   6,94)  (9.716)  (13.6i     )  (18,632)  (25.08)  (.33.349  (43.912)  (57,348)  S?4.363)
Net Fixed Assets                                    3.614    8,700   17,617   28.283    40,781    51.570    61.639    72,995    86,760   102.894   121.639
Assets Under Construction                             441   4.023 3.394    4 877           3.916     2,632    _226.3       3 059     3 711      4.310     5 062
Total Assets                                        4,581   13,493   22,739   35,749    46.468    56,964    68,221    82,159    97,847   117,129   139,829
Liabilities
Total Current Liabilities                             145      198       250    1.543      1.796     2,096      2,424      2,814     3.255      3.757     4.282
Total Long Term Liabilities                         1.048    5,635    8,569   12,684    15.325    19,632    22.517    25,717    28.522    31.354    33.262
Less Current Maturities                             (68)   __J8)   .8)   1l319)   (1.495)   (1.72)   L1973)   12 272)   12.603)   12.975)   L3.352)
Total Liabilities                                   1,125    5,750    8.731   12,908    15,626    20.005    22.969    26.259    29,174    V.135    34,192
Eui
Paid-In Capital                                     2,575    2,575    2,575    2,575       2.575     2.575      2,575      2,575     2,575      2,575     2,575
Municipal Contribution                                  0    2,933    6.556   11,624    14,582    14,582    14,582    14,582    14.582    14,582    14.582
Contributed Capital Works (UEA)                         0      216       537      853      1,475      1,909     2,231      2,459     2,7S1      3,099     3,504
Connection Charges & Improvement Fees                  44       358    1,151    2,379      3,381      4.519     6,143      8,OS9     9,620    11,602    14,013
Retained Earnings                                      99     (244)  (1.198)  (2.893)   (5.356)   (7.860)  (10,156)  (11,940)  (13.241)  (13,773)  (13,158)   ,.f
Net Revaluation Account                               736    1.906    4.387    8303    14.          21.23L     29.8       40,165    52.386    66.909    84.122 
Total Equity                                        3.455   7.743   14.008   22.841    308.42    36.95         4S.252    SS,900    68.672    84.994   105.638 li
Total Liabilities 8 Equity                          4,581   13,493   22,739   35,749    46.468    56,964    68.221    82,159    97,847   117,129   139,629          I -
0
o0



Tablei (Cont'd)
.ouCg1_and ApDlications of Funds
Gross Internal Fund Generation                 531      769    1,345    1,910       2,633     3,742      4.888     6.483      8.260    10.489    13,323
Total Contributions (A)                         50    3.469    4,74S    6,624       4.597     1,592      1,972     2,175      1.892     2,377      2.870
Borrowings:  IBRO                              270    2,646    2,185    3.190       2.433     1,634        637       188          0         0          0
Municipal Fund                   245       782      109         0         0      1,012       887      1,251     1.274      1.419     1.213
tIler Bank                       367    1.173       164     _   O         O       .5I7     1.330      1.876     1.910     2.129      1.820
Total Borrowings                             _882        S01    2.458   3.t90       2.433     4.163      2.L53    3.31S    3.184    3.548          3.033
Total Sources                                1,462    d,839    8,549   11,725       9.663     9.496      9,713    11.973    13,336    16,414    19.226
ApOlications
Investments:  Project                          797    8,033    6.774    9,735       7,804     5,232      2,085       555          0         0          0
Non-Project                      _5        12    _1Si         18        28         33     2.441      5.564     7.423     8.6t      10.12
Total Investments                              882    8,046    6.78B    9,753       7,832     5.265      4,526     6.119      7,423     8,619    10.125
Administration Fee                               7        73       60       88         67        45         18         S          0         0          0
Debt Service                                   172       508      781    1,072      2,644     3.248      3.666     4.123      4,712     5,329      5,993
Changes in Working Capital                     402       213      919      all       (880Z      939      I.503     I.72J    1.201       2.466      3.108
Total Applications                           1,462    8.839    8,549   11,725       9.663     9,496      9,713    11.973    13,336    16,414    19,226
B.   I_CAIDRSQ
Rate Of Return                               7.55%    3.62%    2.76%    1.70%       1.32%     2.02%      2.51%     3.31%      3.80%     4.30%      4.88%
Operating Ratio                             79.36%   88.15%   86.94%   90.06%    91.72%    87.13%    84.46%    80.64%    78.66%    76.68%    74.57%
Debt/Equity Ratio                           23.27%   42.12%   37.95%   35.70%    33.19%    34.69%    33.23%    31.51%    29.35%    26.95%    23.95%
Debt/Service Ratio                             3.1       1.5      1.7       1.8       1.0        1.2       1.3        1.6       1.8       2.0        2.2
Debt Service Ratio
including Deposits & Connection           3.4      2.1       2.3      2.4        1.2       1.4        1.6       1.8       2.0        2.2       2.5
Net Internal Generation
as % of Investments (8)                 0.0%     6.4%    10.4%    15.3%      31.2%      20.9%      37.0%     45.8%     57.1%      58.8%     70.0%
NICG as % of 3-year Average Investment        0.0%     6.2%      8.7%    19.6X      41.6%     20.8%      27.8%     38.0%      48.6%      0.0%       0.0%             0n
S of- Population Connected to Water            98%       99%      99%      99%        99%       99%        99%       99%        99%       m          99%
% Households Connected to Sewers               34%       48%      49%       SS%       60%        69%       70%        72%       73%       74%        75%
Water Consumed (=m3): Domestic                6.38      6.60     6.84      7.20      7.60      8.02       8.48      9.0S       9.73      10.39     11.07
Official              0.56     0.60      0.66     0.70       0.76      0.80       0.85      0.90       0.9S      1.00       1.0s
Comnercial & Industrial  0.45       0.46     0.49      0.52      0.54      0.57       0.60      0.63       0.66      0.7t       0.73
Average Household Charge                    12,350   18,426   19,928   24,096    27,591    33,770    36,845    40.632    44,003    47,176    51,220
Average Incremental Cost (FFinancial)       306.41
Block I Charge as % of hh Income
@ 20th Percentile                        2.5%     2.8%      2.9%     2.9%       3.0%      2.9%       2.9%      2.9%       2.8%    , 2.7%       2.6%
Average Charge as % of NH Average Income    2.6%        3.2%     3.2%     3.2%       3.3%      3.2%       3.2%      3.1%       3.0%      3.0%       2.9%
C.   SMHLARY ASSUMPTIONS
Population                                 190,000  199,000  208,000  219,000   231,000   244.000   258,000   273.000   289.000   305,000   321,000
No. of Households                           36,750   38,791   40,945   43,452    46,293    49,293    52,653    56,173    60,083    63.941    67,86S
Water Sourcts (mm3)                             14        14       14        16        16         16        16         16        16         18        18
Water Potentially Reaching Consumer            52%       54S      57%       60%       63%        66%       70%        73%       7S%        75%       75%
X Illegal Water Connections                    19%       18%       8%        6%        5%         2%        1%         1%        1%         1%        1%
Block 1 Domestic Tariff in Constant Prices    99         110      115       115       120        120       120        120       120        120       120
Block 2 Domestic Tariff in Constant Prices   114         1SO      1SO      150       160        160       160        160       160        160       160
Block 3 Domestic Tariff in Constant Prices   1SO         210      215       220       230        250       250        250       250       250        250
Collection Efficiency Factor - Domestic        70%       75%      80%      85S        87%       88%        89%       90%        90%       90%        90%
Official Tariff in Constant Prices             274       274      274       274       274        274       274       274        274       274        274
Conunercial Tariff in Constant Prices          274       274      274       274       274        274       274       274        274       274        274           d 
% Block I Consumption of Domestic              50%       SO%      SOX       so%       s0%        S0%       50X       SOX        SOX%       50%       50%           lb
% Block 2 Consumption of Domestic              4S%       45%      45%       45%       45%        45%       45%        45X       45X                  45SZ            
X Block 3 Consumption of Domestic               SX        S%       5%        S%        St         5%        SX-        St        St         SX        5%
Sewer Charge as % of Water Charge              2S%       33%      36%       39%       42%       45%        48%       Set        SOX%      S0%         O
(A) Total Contributions Include:  Deposits. Connection Charges,  Improvement Fees. UEA Works, & Municipal Contributions
(8)  Net Internal Cash Generation (NICG) Includes Charges, Fees & UEA Works donated by HUDC



- 163 -
ANNEX 11
Page 17 of 19
11.      Income Statement.  Operating revenues were derived from estimates of
consumption, tariffs, proportion of population connected (legally versus
illegally),and collection efficiency factors (percentage of bills paid).
Consumption estimates were based on forecasts of demand and supply. Demand
forecasts were based on existing consumption (which ranged from about 60 l/c/d
to 115 1/c/d), corrected for estimated suppressed demand, assuming real income
growth of 3 percent per capita, the forecast tariffs, and using price and
income elasticities of -.2 and +.4, respectively. Domestic demand comes to 90
l/c/d to 100 l/c/d during the project period with, in general, price increases
more or less counterbalancing income increases, keeping per capita consumption
more or less constant. Official and commercial demand were forecast at
existing per capita rates. Supply was forecast on the basis of estimated
production, times the percentage potential reaching the customer, which would
be increased from 38-52 percent in 1987 to 62-73 percent in 1994 by the
project. In years in which forecast demand exceeded forecast supply,
consumption of all categories (including illegal consumption) was reduced by
the same percentage as total demand exceeded supply. Collection efficiency is
expected to rise from between .65 and .85 in 1987 to .92 in 1994, due to
better management, the introduction of monthly billing (in place of quarterly
or two monthly billing), and a -meter maintenance program. Forecast tariffs
were revised annually to reflect inflation and real increases as required to
attain financial targets. Sewerage charges are being introduced in all
municipalities as a surcharge over all water bills (Mersin, Adana) or over
water bills of customers served by the sewerage system (in the other towns).
Cukurova municipalities started to collect extraction fees from firms which
extract water from their own wells only in 1986. Following a July court
decision in Adana which declared that this was legal, collection rates are
expected to rise from this source, and it is forecast to yield from 2 percent
of total water and sewerage revenues in Ceyhan in 1994 to 12 percent in Adana
in the same year.
12.      Operating costs before depreciation and interest include: (a)
forecasts of staff remuneration based on personnel currently engaged in water
and sanitation operations, plus new hires and additional staff to handle new
sewer systems in Tarsus and Iskenderun; after 1992, these expenses are
forecast to rise in real terms at the same rate as population; (b) maintenance
at 1 percent of fixed assets; (c) power and chemicals estimated on the basis
of cost per cubic meter of watrir produced; (d) transport, office expenses, and
miscellaneous goods and services rising rapidly in real terms during the
initial project years, and then rising approximately in line with population,
and (e) the contribution for training to the CMTA at 0.5 percent of total
capital and cash recurrent expenses.
13.      Depreciation is estimated at 4 percent of total fixed assets
(revalued to reflect inflation). Interest is forecast at 8.25 percent on the
IBRD loan plus a .75 percent commitment charged on the undisbursed balance.
Losses due to exchange rate variation and the Treasury fee of 2.75 percent on
disbursements of the World Bank loan are charged to income. The Bank's loan
period is seventeen years including a grace period of four years. Iller
Bank's loans are paid in equal annual installments over 20 years at'l6 percent
interest. The Municipal Fund is reimbursed at 0 percent interest over a 20
year period.



- 164 -
ANNEX 11
Page 18 of 19
14.      Balance Sheet and Sources and Application of Funds Statements.  An
operational cash requirement is asstmed at one month operating expenses.
Surplus cash generated in one year Ls used to finance investments the next
year. Receivables are 15 percent of revenue and inventory is 16 percent of
chemicals and other expenses. Accounts payable are 25 percent of operating
expenses. Fifty percent of work in progress is transferred to fixed assets;
the remainder is assets under construction. Assets are revalued annually
according to inflation. Existing assets are revalued at the full rate while
new commissionirgs are revalued at half the inflation rate on the assumption
that they are commissioned evenly during the year. An asset revaluation
reserve is included in the balance sheet. Accumulated depreciation is also
revalued, and a reserve is set up in the same manner.
15.      Investments in 1993-97, based on an assessment of the major
infrastructures and networks judged necessary to meet growth, were smoothed to
a constant (real) annual amount. The difference between these estimates and
project expenditures in 1993 and 1994 is classified as nonproject investment.
16.      Long-term debt consists of loans outstanding from IBRD, Iller Bank,
and the Municipal Fund excluding current maturities. World Bank loans have
been based on disbursement percentages. Local loan finance from Iller Bank
and the Municipal Fund (MF) are assumed to handle all requirements over and
above contributions from the Bank loan and internal generation (surplus cash
from the previous year), provided that the resulting debt service ratios
remain satisfactory in future years. Adana, as a metropolitan municipality,
is not eligible for MF financing; MF finances are forecast at one third of
local loan finance in Mersin, 40 percent in Tarsus and Iskenderun, and 80
percent in Ceyhan, in accord with the past practice in which smaller
municipalities receive a higher proportion of central finance in the form of
MF contributions. These percentages are lower than the past percentages
received by these municipalities.
17.      Paid-in capital is the difference between existing assets and
existing loans in 1987. Municipal contributions have been estimated at levels
required to ensure debt service coverage, except in the case of Adana, which
is statutorily obliged to contribute 10 percent of its (6 percen-) recurrent
Government transfer to ASKI. This payment has been treated as municipal
contribution. Customer contributions comprise the connection fees (TL 60,000
for each of water and sewerage, and collected in equal annual installments in
three years following installation) and improvement charges (the lesser of the
cost of improvements or 2 percent of property value, assessed separately for
water and sewerage, and payable in equal installments over the two years
following completion of construction).
18.      Results.  Based on the above estimates, all project municipalities
would achieve the main financial targets during the project period, with the
exception of Adana where debt service coverage is forecast at only 0.9 in
1987. This results from (a) a zero tariff which is to be charged in .that year
to households which consume less than 7.5 cubic meters of water, and (b) the
need to repay a one year TL 580 million loan taken from Iller Bank in 1986 to
finance sewerage works. In the other towns, debt service is tightest in



- 165 -
ANNEX 11
Page 19 of 19
Mersin in 1988 and 1989, in Tarsus in 1988, and in Iskenderun in 1991, when
repayments begin on the World Bank loan. As a result, equity contributions
are required in Mersin in 1988 and 1989, in Tarsus in 1988, and in Iskenderun
from 1988 to 1991 inclusive. Iskenderun's situation is particularly difficult
because, like Tarsus, it is building an essentially new sewerage network under
the project. This is also reflected in average incremental costs1'
(including costs of water as well as sewerage) in Iskenderun of TL 306 per
cubic meter of water billed and paid for, and TL 307 in Tarsus, as contrasted
with TL 164 in Mersin, TL 222 in Adana and TL 267 in Ceyhan. In addition,
Iskenderun has significantly higher operating costs than the other towns.
Since Iskenderun, with Ceyhan, has the highest tariffs in the project cities,
opportunities to raise substantial additlonal amounts from this source may be
limited, and so a very large municipal contribution is forecast for the water
and sanitation investment program. Nevertheless, Iskenderun's water and
sewerage charges are forecast to peak at only 3.3 percent of average household
income in 1991, so that somewhat higher tariffs might be accepted by the
public. WSDs are forecast to generate more than 20 percent of their
investments from internal funds by 1991 (Adana and Mersin by 1990), and rates
of return of over 5 percent are expected for all WSDs by 1995 (except
Iskenderun, where the furecast is 3.8 percent in that year). Debt equity
ratios rise initially, but start falling after two or three years due to the
increasing proportion of future investments financed by internally generated
funds, and the revaluation of assets.
1/ Average incremental cost calculations are calculated on the basis of
additional paid consumption (i.e., excluding illegal consumption, and
consumption for which bills are not collected, so as to be comparable with
tariff rates).



- 166 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 8
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT COMPANIES FINANCES
1.       The policy statement for HUDCs in Annex 7 contains a description of
the organization, staffing and marketing and financial objectives of the
HUDCs. This annex contains information on their financial viability and the
rationale for the financial covenants in that statement, namely, that equity
should be kept to at least two thirds of debt, and that the acid test ratio
should be kept above two thirds (.667).
2.       In brief, the HUDCs are expected to be very profitable, even under
adverse market assumptions. The more serious risks from the municipalities'
point of view are that the HUDCs will have financial difficulties if they are
overextended or mismanaged. The HUDCs are new ventures, with untested
management. Their commercial status provides them with greater operational
flexibility than they would have under public service regulations regarding
staffing, procurement or sales of assets. That status also implies challenges
on management to deal with the political pressures that are an unavoidable
consequence of ownership by, and financial relationships with, the
municipalities.
Base Assumptions Underlying Financial Analysis
3.       The financial analysis carried out for the HUDCs is exemplified by
the projections for Mersin in tables 1 to 3. The estimates and assumptions
are explained in the order in which they appear in the accounts.
Income and Expenditure Statement (Table 1)
4.       Sale of Plots.  Plots are sold in accordance with a sales program, by
type of property, with separate categories of residential plots, and plots for
commercial use. The base assumption is that residential sales proceed in
advance of production of serviced land. This is in accord with the Turkish
practice of persons who want houses paying deposits to developers in hopes of
being included in schemes which are largely financed by such deposits.
Deposits on presales are assumed to be paid each year that the presale remains
unsatisfied, based upon 20 percent of the initial price. (On completion, the
current sale price is charged, less deposits made and accrued interest on
deposits at 20 percent annual interest). Commercial sales coincide with
production. The base sales and production program are set out in table 4.



- 167 -                                        ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 8
IURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ITkab]e:  INCOME AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENT
PROJECT-RELATED
Sales of Comoleted Plots
. Comercial/Industrial        0        0       405      485     578      682     295        0
. Residential                 Q        Q    6Ia8 6.0    329   L622   5-04M4  29-33    42ZI
Total of Sale                 0         0    6.488   6.879   3,269   5,726   9,634   4,271
Less Cost of Sale
Land
Acquisition (at cost)  0          0       649     590      236      369     564      173
Interest                0         0        65      69       24       37      56       17
Revaluation             0         0       506     670      364      737   1,416      532
Infrastructure
Contribution to offsite
infrastructure       0         0      358      390      186     343      614     219
Onsite infrastructure
cost                 Q. Qt   LAl             L=25B   1.520   L161   S.JQ0    1Z782
Total Cost of Sale            A        Q    4J.626   4.i267   Z122   4J34    L-6U    2-724
Surplus/Deficit on Sale           0         0    1.862   1,912       870   1,378   1,981   1.547
ogerating Expenditures
Staff Costs             9       122       179     224      281      347     429      518
Operation & maint.      1        31        44      50       63       78      96      116
Sales & Promotions      3        57        84     108      132      160     192      217
Depreciation of
oper. assets         0        23        28      39       46      46       54       52
Technical Assistance   0        151        Al      Al        Q        Q       A        t
Subtotal                     14      387       423      475     522      631      770     902
Less Capitalized Expenditure
Project-Related         0       (24)      (58)    (70)    (43)    (94)    (84)    (27)
Nonproject-Related    Lnj       Iil       MI    LZS(5    L1271   (2461  (IAI        (05Ik
Total Operating Expenditures
Before Interest         Z                 2A1    13f       15Z      221     ZZS      212
Operating Surplus/(Deficit)
Before Interest        (7)    (284)   1,581   1,582        519   1,086   1,706   1,328
Interest Receivable
(from short-term inv.)        0       37       141      313     467      544      718   1.187
Interest Payable
IBRO/National Loans    0         80       172     120       97      109      68       24
Less Interest During
Construction         0         0      (170)   (120)    (97)   (109)    (68)    (24)
Deposits                Q         Q       112      6A       10        i     1Q9        Q
Net Interest                  0       80       119       64       10      86      109       (0)
Gain/(Loss) on Foreign
Exchange                Q        LQ    1100.       I        a       LO.1    1.1       a
Surplus/(Def.) Before Tax  (7)    (327)   1,502   1,831         976   1,544   2,315   2.515
Corporation Tax               a         Q      621 Q4 M2                  Qf  1.06S   1.15Z
Surplus/(Def.) After Tax   LZ,      La2Z        L                        amA   J.9=    i_2a5a
AoRroRriation Account
Net Surplus/(Deficit)        (7)    (327)      811      989     527      834   1,250   1,358
Less Cash Dividends           0         0      (81)    (99)    (53)    (83)   (125)   (136)
Transfer to Gen. Reserve   (7)    (327)        730      890     474      751   1,125   1,222



- 168 -                                           ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 8
CIJKUROVA URDAN BEVELOP#4CNT PROJECT
Table 2: SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENT
Sourcas of Funds
Equity                                         25      1.025          0          0          0          0          0          0
Borrowings:
Project Related:
Loans:
CPF - IORD                                    0        502        749        947        644      1,435        917        353
CPF - NATIONAL                                0        308
Total Borrowings                                0        810        749        947        644      1,436        917        353
Internal Sources:
Project Related
Sales of Plots
Cash & Downpayment                        0          0     5.771      6,495      3,208      5,212      8,978      4,271
Deposits - Adv. Sales                     0       597        440         11S       438        632         109          0
Interest Receivable
Short-Term Investment                               37        141       313        467        544        718      1,187
Items Not InvolvAng Movement of Funds
Depreciation on Fixed Assets              0         23         28         39        46         46          54         S2
Total Internal Sources                          0        657      6,379      6.962      4.160      6,434      9.860      5.509
Total Sources of Funds                         25      Z.3Z    LZLaA        L5.L        LJ83       ZLUis    AI&=UZ       LiM
Application of Funds
Investment in Fixed Assets                      0        349          0         21          0          0          0          0
Contrib. to Off-Site Infrastructure             0          0        358        390        186        343        614        219
Land                                            0          0      1.219      1.318        623      1.142      2,037        723
On-Site Infrastructure (W.I.P.)                46      1,362      2,273      2,775      1.902      4,131      2,641      1.015
Total Capital Expenditure                    46      1.710      3,850     4.SOS       2,711     5,616       S,292      1,957
Operating Expenditure                           7        284        281        330        362        291        27S        219
Interest on Deposits                            0          0        119         64         10         86        109          0
Corporation Taxes                               0          0        691        842        449        710      1.065      1.1S7
Dividends                                       0          0         81         99         53         83        125        136
Debt Service:
CPF - IIRO
Principal - Standard                                                                               518        58S        353
Accelerated                                                     1,350        947        644        917        332          0
Interest                                      0         21         80         39         27         S9         38         1S
Commitment Charges                                      22         21         18         16          8          2          0
CPF - NATIONAL
Principal                                     0         14         31         39         48         60         74         41
Interest                                      0         37         71         63         54         42         28         10
Total Debt Service                              0         94      1,554      1,106        789      1.604      1.060        419
Less:  Int. during Const.                       0          0       (172)      (120)       (97)      (109)       (68)       (24)
Net Debt Service                                0         94      1,382        986        692      1,495        992        394
Total Application of Funds                     53      Z.LS       6LA        LJLZ6                 A.MLZM     ziM         ai3
Movement in Working Capital
Increase/(Decrease)                         (28)       403        724      1.082        537       (413)    2,919       1,99
Being Movements in:
Creditors
(Increase)/Oecrease                        (6)      (114)     (972)      (237)        572      (446)       (440)       110
Oebtors
Increase/(Decrease)                         0          0       289          36       (164)       100        188       (23S)
Cash
Increase/(Decrease)                       (22)       517     1,407      1,284         130        (68)    3,170      2.12S
Total Movemnts
Increa*e/(0arease)                        (32)      403        724      1.082        537       (413)    2.919       1.9s



-  169 -                                            ANNEX  12
Page 4 of 8
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tablg 3: BALANCE SHEET
196         1987 198     8             . 22f2   1290 1991  1993
Current Assets
Cash & Short Term Investments              0        496      1.903      3,187      3,316      3,249      6,419      8,544
Debtors                                    0          0        289        325        160        261        449         214
Total Current Assets                         0        496      2,192      3,511      3,477      3,509      6,868      8,757
Qnerating Assets
Work in Progress                          52      1,588      1,056        738      1,210      2,806        468           0
Stock of Development Assets                0          0          0          0          0           0       244           0
Total Operating Assets                      52      1,588      1.056        738      1,210      2,806         712          0
Etxed Assets
Major Public Assets
Fixed Operating Assets                     0        390        468        585        690        782        907      1,008
Depreciation                             0        (23)       (56)      (106)      (171)      (216)      (304)      (361)
Total Fixed Assets                           0        367        412        479        519        566        603         648
TotalAssets                                 52      2inA1      3.hAQ      LZ22       5_2n6      68             a      L4Q
Current Liabilities
Creditors Falling Due in One Year
Term Loans                                 0         31         39         48         60         74         41           0
Corporation Tax Payable                    0          0        691        842        449        710      1.065      1,157
Dividends Payable                          0          0         81         99         53         83         125        136
Accounts Payable                           6        121        321        389        257        410        454         241
Bank Overdraft                            22          0          0          0          0           0          0          0
Deposits Received                          0        597        320         51        428        546           0          0
Total Current Liabilities                   28        749      1,452      1.430      1.246      1,825      1,685       1,534
Loans:      (+)
CPF - IBRO                                 0        502          0          0          0           0          0          0
- NATIONAL                            0        263        224         176        116         41         (0)        (0)
Total Long-Term Liabilities                  0        764        224        176        116         41          (0)        (0)
Eouitt & Retained Earnings
Equity                                      25      1,050      1,OS0      1,050      1,050      1,050      1,050      1,OSO
General Reserve
Opening Balance                                      (7)      (334)       396      1,286      1,760      2,511      3.636
Surplus/(Deficit) in Year                 (7)      (327)       730        890        474        751      1,125       1,222
Closing Balance                           (7)      (334)       396      1,286      1,760      2,511      3,636      4,858
kevaluation Reserve
Fixed Assets                               0         41        115        199        285        379        469         566
Current Assets                             6        180        424        589        749      1,076      1,343      1,398
rotal Equity and Reserves                   25       937       1,984      3,124      3,844      5,015      6,498      7,872
ratal Liabilities                                  ZA         3d.w       A-=



- 170 -
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 8
Table 4: LAND SALES AND COMPLETION PROGRAM
Land (HA)                          1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Residential Land Sold              25.3   29.4   28.9   25.5   24.9   24.9   11.8
Cumulative                                54.7   83.6  109.1  134.0  158.9  170.7
Land for Commercial Use Sold               1      1       1      1       0.4
Land Completed                            44     40      16     25      40     10
Cumulative                                       84    100    125    165    175
5.       Sales Prices at December 1985 Levels.-I  Sales prices vary
according to the level of infrastructure provided -  tertiary infrastructure
is excluded from land sold to contractors. In Mersin, base sales prices range
from TL 5,600/mr2 for land for low-income property to TL 16,000m/M2 for land
for high-income property. Sales prices for low-income property reflect the
policy of ensuring half the number of residential units are affordable to
individuals in the lower half of the income distribution, which criterion is
met if land price per unit is TL 640,000 or less. (The subsidy implicit in
these prices ranges from TL 2,100/m2 to TL 2,400/mi2 compared with
estimated "market prices.") It is believed the base prices are conservative;
some sources believe that the HUDCs may realize rices for fully serviced land
from TL 23,000/m2 (medium income) to TL 30,000/m  (high income),
especially once some families have moved in and a comamunity has started to
develop.
6.       Cost of Sales.  The costs of land are calculated at the time of sale,
based upon acquisition costs, plus 10 percent and plus revaluation to current
prices. Thirty-three percent of the real cost of offsite infrastructure is
charged prorata to area sold. Onsite infrastructure is charged, in real
terms, prorata to area sold. Costs of infrastructures and land for social
facilities (schools, health centers, emergency centers) are also charged to
land sold and recovered in prices to home buyers. Cost of sales also includes
2 percent of onsite cost to cover project management, and interest during
construction. The latter is calculated at 20 percent of development cost
charged to sales, and subject to a maximum of the interest payable in the year.
7.       Net Operating Expenses are forecast to grow until 1989, with sales
and promotion costs increasing faster during the early stages of the program.
Technical assistance is estimated at 2 man-years (1 foreign, 1 local) in 1987
reduced by 50 percent in each of 1988 and 1989. Straight line depreciation is
charged on revalued fixed assets over 25 years for buildings, 8 years for
plant and equipment, and 4 years for vehicles.
1/ Except as otherwise stated, all prices and cost assumptions are at
December 1985 levels and inflated by forecast national inflation rates.



- 171 -
ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 8
8.       Profits on Sales are assumed to be taken only on sales of fully
developed land. Presales are not brought to the income and expenditure
account.
9.       Interest Receivable from Short-term Investments is estimated at
20 percent per annum on initial balances plus half the movement during the
year.
10.      Interest Payable:  Interest on IBRD loans is estimated at
8.25 percent p.a. plus 0.75 percent commitment charge, plus foreign exchange
movement, on national loans from Development Support Fund (DSF) at 24 percent
p.a., and on presales deposits at 20 percent'p.a.
11.      Gain/Loss on Foreign Exchange is the change in debt repayments
required as a result of US$/TL parity change during the year, assuming IBRD
loans are held for a minimum of 364 days, even when accelerated repayments are
made (para. 14).
12.      Profits:  Corporation tax is calculated at 46 percent of profit in
the year, dividends at 10 percent of after-tax profit in the year, and the
balance remaining is transferred to the General Reserve in the balance sheet.
Sources and Applications Account (Table 2)
13.      Equity Investment is assumed at TL 25 million in 1986, and just over
TL I billion in 1987, or approximately one half of funds required in each year.
14.      Loans.  IBRD loans are disbursed against investments in
infrastructure, design and supervision costs. IBRD standard repayment is 17
years, including 4 years of grace. Accelerated repayment by the HUDC is made
if cash balances exceed 25 percent of the following year's investment
program. (This pattern is an approximation to the requirement on the HUDC to
repay loans at least proportionate to sales.) National loans are provided in
amounts needed to ensure that at least 15 percent of the following year's
investment prc-'ram is available in liquid assets at the end of the financial
year. Repa)- ents are based upon annuity to repay the loan fully by the end of
1993. (This approximates repayment proportionate to sales.)
15.      Investment in Fixed Assets.  Investment is estimated in buildings (TL
200 million), plant (TL 30 million), and vehicles (TL 10 million) in 1987 and
a further TL 10 million vehicles in 1989 (all December 1985 prices).
16.      Development Work-in-Progess incluides costs of works and equipment,
design, and supervision, a two percent charge for project management, and
estimated interest during construction. Based upon the completion schedule,
costs are transferred to the developed assets account, using average real
costs of investment prorated to area. Balances of work in progress and in the
developed assets accounts are revalued arnually and a corresponding
revaluation reserve made. Stocks are transferred from the Developed Assets
Account to the Income and Expenditure account pro rata to areas sold.



- 172 -
ANNEX 12
Page 7 of 8
Balance Sheet (Table 3)
17.      Debtors (Receivables) are assumed at 5 percent of cash sales and
installments on deposits, and accounts payable are assumed equal to one
twelfth of the year's onsite infrastructure investment.
Results
18.      The HUDC is highly profitable on the base assumptions.  Table 5
contains a list of indicators of financial performance. The ratio of average
sale price to cost (in current prices) rises due to the fact that the
properties for low-income households are expected to sell more rapidly than
those for higher income households. No further equity contributions are
required after 1987, and debt repayments exceed new debt from 1988. Financing
of the ongoing program is essentially from deposits and retained earnings.
The debt equity ratio falls from 0.8 in 1989 to 0.1 in the following two
years. Debt service is comfortably covered. If no cash equity were employed,
about TL 2.3 billion in loans would be required in the first year (compared
with TL 0.75 billion in the base run). Given the large cash generation, no
additional borrowing would be required, and the debt equity ratio would go to
2.4 in 1988 and 0.8 in 1989.
Table 5: STATISTICS AND INDICATORS
Statistics                 198    198    198    199    1991       192      93
Gross Profit Ratio        0.00%  28.70%  27.80%  26.62%  24.06%  20.56%  36.22%
Net Profit Ratio          0.00%  12.50%  14.38%  16.12%  14.57%  12.98%  31.80%
Rate of Return          -16.69%  71.59%  47.96%  13.10%  21.48%  26.25%  16.87%
Average Sale Price m2        0  14,744  17,198  20,433  22,902  25.161  36,320
Average Cost per             0 o  10,513  12,417  14,994  17,391  19,987  23.163
Acid Test Ratio           0.66    1.51    2.46    2.79    1.92    4.08    5.71
Current + Operating Assets
to Current Liabilities  2.8    2.2      3.0     3.8    3.5    4.5       5.7
Total Debt:Equity Ratio   0.8    0.1    0.1       0.0     0.0    0.0    -0.0
Oebt Service Coverage
(before capitalization)   4.0     3.4    5.1      4.2     3.3    7.8    9.5
Internal Contribution
toca$ptal   *7 Y.O%  100.0%  100.0%   77.5%   71.3%  100.0%  100.0%
19.      A series of sensitivity tests indicate that the HUDCs are likely to
be profitable under a range of pessimistic assumptions about sales which are
believed to be the most uncertain element of the forecasts. The major
implications of these adverse forecasts are for the amount of financing
required. If sales of "market priced" property (para. 5) slipped one year, an
additional TL 0.6 million of loan would be required, (keeping equity
constant). The implications of the very much higher prices for market priced



- 173 -
ANNEX 12
Page 8 of 8
land suggested by some officials were also tested, on the further assumption
that sales at those prices would only be consummated two years later than the
base (keeping the investment program constant). This would require very
substantial increases in financing on the order of an additional TL 1.4
billion from base, but even in this case, net loan repayments would commence
in 1989.  Changes in financing on this order would probably prove affordable
to Mersin municipality, but only at the expense of reducing other capital
expenditures.  The consequences would be much more serious in the cases of
Tarsus or Iskenderun, where municipal finances are much tighter and shortfalls
of these magnitudes (relative to the size of the HUDC program in those towns)
would threaten the rest of the municipality's capital program. An additional
source of risk to the municipality, if not the HUDC, in Iskenderun is that the
price of land there is much higher than in the other towns, which argues for
extreme care there in finalizing the investment. An additional source of risk
in Tarsus is that the HUDC sales program there is a larger proportion of the
total land market than in the case in the other towns.
20.      The HUDCs are engaged in a business which promises large and quick
profits. By the same token, large losses will accumulate rapidly if
management is not active and businesslike. In these circumstances, it is
essential to establish financial arrangements which will provide room for
maneuver, and specifically, to retain sufficient liquidity during the early
period when expenses of operation and development accrue in advance of sales.
These risks are particularly high for new companies operating in an untested
market. A close monitoring by the PRIMU of HUDCs' performance will also be
important to provide timely guidance. The two critical financial criteria
proposed to facilitate sound HUDC management are: (a) that equity
contributions should be in cash, and sufficiently large to maintain debt
equity ratio of less than 1.5, and (b) the HUDCs should retain acid test
ratios of at least two thirds. Use of this ratio, instead of the current
ratio, is proposed since current assets are dominated by work in progress and
the inventory of unsold land, which constitute the major threat to liquidity
if they become excessive. A ratio of less than unity should be acceptable
because depositors (who typically receive less than the market rate of
interest on deposits, if they receive any interest at all) tend not to
withdraw them so long as there is a prospect of acquiring a house.
21.      Although some HUDCs have expressed an interest in entering into
credit sales, the draft policy statement indicates that the HUDCs will not
sell land on credit. Given all of the uncertainties connected with these
enterprises, it is felt that administration of cre#it may involve excessive
difficulties (as well as additional financial requirements and risks), in
return for uncertain advantages (given the strong market interest in the UEA
sites).



- 174 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 8
TURKEY
CUKTJROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCOME DISTRIBUTION. AFFORDABILITY AND POVERTY ANALYSIS,
AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Income Distribution
1.       Table 1 summarizes the information on income distribution from the
Adana household survey and from the surveys of households in a sample of
ge.ekondu areas to be upgraded during the project in Adana, Tarsus, Mersin,
and Iskenderun. The figures are for end December, 1985. They have been
increased by about 7.1 percent to reflect inflation (at 44.5 percent),
economic growth (at 7 percent in 1985-86), and population growth (at 2.5
percent) on the assumption that per capita incomes in Cukurova rose at the
national average from the date of the surveys.
Table 1: HOUSING (DISPOSABLE) INCOME DISTRIBUTION
(TL '000/month)
Percentile
Group                     Adana                    Gecekondu Areas
(Households)             Households       Adana      Tarsus    Mersin       Iskenderun
0 - 10                        32.1         32.1        32.1       32.1           32.1
0 - 20                        42.8         36.4        42.8       42.8           42.8
0 - 30                        48.2         42.8        53.2       48.2           48.2
0 - 40                        55.7         48.2        56.8       53.6           53.6
0 - 50                        65.3         56.8        64.3       64.3           58.9
0 - 60                        75.0         66.4        75.0       76.9           64.3
0 - 70                        88.9         77.1        85.7       80.3           71.8
0 - 80                       107.1         91.0       101.7      101.7           85.7
0 - 90                       140.3        113.5       122.8      133.9          107.1
Arithmetic mean               83.5         66.4        73.9       73.9           67.5
(Sample)
Valid Interviews             963          587         362        189            181
Source: Household Income Surveys carried out October/November 1985 by Cukurova
Study Team.



- 175 -
AMNEX 13
Page 2 of 8
Affordability
2.       Water and Sanitation.  Average water and sanitation tariffs, at under
3 percent of incomes in most cities in most years, and somewhat less for
families at the 20th percentile if they consume only the "lifeline" supply of
7.5 m3 per month, are affordable. Connection fees, at TL 60,000 for water
and sewerage, each come to a little under one month's income at the 50th
percentile. They are, however, payable over three years and so should be
affordable.
3.       Upgrading and Housing Management Areas.  The combined cost recovery
charge of about TL 390,000 (TL 150,000 for legalization, TL 120,000 for water
and sewerage connections, and TL 120,000 for improvement fees, on the
assumption that the property has an assessed valuation of TL 2 million and
that two percent is levied for each of roads, water and sewer) comes to a
little more than one half of annual income at the 50th percentile. Since the
water fees are payable over three years, and the improvement charge over two
years, payments come to TL 250,000 in the first year (about 35 percent of
income, less than 13 percent in the second year, and under 6 percent in the
third, after taking account of increases due to inflation). Given the strong
interest in Turkey in securing legal tenure (so as to be eligible for
services, access to credit, etc.), it is believed that these charges should be
affordable and collectible. Through the institution of muktars (village
headmen), also, there is a mechanism for identifying those indigent households
who are unable to pay.
4.       Urban Expansion Areas.  Affordability of plots in the urban expansion
areas has been examined from two points of view: (a) informal sector practice,
and (b) affordability given credit arrangements now in place in Turkey. In
the informal market, most families either seek opportunities to pay developers
during the course of construction (for apartments), or, in the case of most
rural-urban migrants and many others in the project cities, they buy land and
then construct houses as their means permit. The sources of funds include
proceeds of sale of farms, borrowing from other family members, and, during
construction, from building materials suppliers. Land sellers also sometimes
provide credit over brief periods. Nevertheless, the bulk of housing finance
in cases interviewed in depth was either cash savings or transfers within
families. The household surveys indicated that the median value of house (in
December 1985 prices) was about TL 3.2 millions for families with incomes up
to the 70th percentile, above which house values escalated rapidly. Surveys
of the market indicated that land came to 15 percent to 25 percent of house
value. Using a 20 percent ratio, it was assumed for design and pricing
purposes that at least half the units in the UEAs should have a land cost of
no more than TL 640,000. Prices of ge9ekondu plots are reported in the range
of TL 0.3 - 0.7 million. A price near the upper end of this range, for a plot
which has all services, is expected to prove attractive to persons whose only
other alternative would be geqekondu living. .The Mass Housing Fund is the
only substantial source of formal housing credit in Turkey. Purchasers of
land on UEAs, who have incomes below TL 1.7 million per annum, are eligible
for finance from MHF for housing and, as of early 1987, the cost of
infrastructure, at 15 percent interest (on units up to 60 square meters) over
15 years in a maxisnm amount (February 1987) of TL 3 million. Deflated to



- 176 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 8
December 19E5 prices, this comes to TL 2.2 million, or about 70 percent of the
valhe of the median unit found in the household surveys. (Houses of 50-60
m2were built by contractors on Tarsus and Adana UEAs for about TL 2.5
million during 1986.) Although the initial monthly payments on such a loan
would be a little under half the median income, given expected rates of
inflation, monthly payments would be below 30 percent of income in the third
year of repayments. These figures imply that families who can find from TL
0.6 to TL 1.1 million in cash should be able to afford housing on the project
sites. This is not expected to create a major obstacle to sales to members of
the lower-income groups.
Poverty Analysis
5.       On the assumption of GNP growth at 7 percent between 1985 and 1986,
population growth at 2.5 percent, GNP per capita in December 1985 was TL
666,800. With an average five-person household, this comes to TL 3.3 million
per household, or TL 277,850 per month. The Bank's definition of the urban
poverty level is 25 percent higher than the rural poverty level, which is set
at thirty percent of national per capita income; it would come to TL 104,200
per household per month. Deducting 30 percent in taxes yields a level of
monthly household disposable income of about TL 72,900, which would be at the
58th percentile in Adana households, the 66th percentile in surveyed Adana
gegekondus, the 57th in Mersin, the 58th in Tarsus, and the 71st in Iskenderun.
Economic Rates of Return (ERRs)
6.       All benefits and costs have been estimated in constant prices.
Analysis of costs in border prices indicated little variation among different
components from the standard conversion factor of about 0.8. Since the
statement of benefits in border prices also involved applying the standard
conversion factor, no bias was introduced into ERRs by using market prices to
represent economic values. The time horizon for discounting all costs and
benefits was 2014 (20 years after project completion). Cost and benefit flows
for all components are presented in the Project Files.
7.       Rental Benefits.  The economic benefits of upgrading and housing
management components were estimated as: (a) the increase in rental values of
housing units due to improvements in services and (b) the increment in
property values, over and above what is reflected in rental values, from
legalization and increased security of tenure. Regression analyses of rentals
on housing characteristics from the getekondu surveys, with some adjustments
based on the analysis of the Adana survey, and adjustments to remove effects
of collinearity between provision of sewerage and town coefficients, yielded
the following expression (superscripts are either 1 or the proportion of
houses which have that characteristic in the town concerned).
Rental value = 1.283 Mersin * 0.787 Tarsus * 0.975 Iskenderun
* No. of rooms 0'768 * 0.887 (Subject to flooding)
* 0.867 (temporary construction) * 1.177 (piped water)
* 1.183 (electriCity Installed) * 1.106 (sewerage connection)
* 1.2 (average road) * 1.041 (individual title)



- 177 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 8
For example, rentals for Mersin were calculated using a value of 1 for the
Mersin superscript, 0 for the other town superscripts, 4 for number of rooms,
0.76 for temporary construction materials, since that was the percentage of
gegekondu homes in that town with temporary materials and so on. Average road
meant neighborhoods with up to 50 percent of roads paved (and are compared
with neighborhoods with bad roads, which have under 11 percent of roads
paved.) Given the characteristics of the gecekondus surveyed in each town,
the following rental values were derived for (a) a new dwelling in a ge9ekondu
without facilities (except for electricity, which seems to be installed very
rapidly in most areas); (b) existing gecekondu areas; and (c) upgraded areas.
Table 2: ESTIMATED RENTAL VALUES
(TL/month)
Adana     Mersin    Tarsus      Iskenderun
(a)  new dwelling                  9,388     12,469     8,571         9,604
(b)  existing gegekondu           11,695     15,941      9,533       11,288
(c)  upgraded dwelling            15,506     20,325    13,389        15,712
8.       Taking the difference between rentals on upgraded and existing, and
between upgraded and new dwellings, yields the estimate of rental benefits for
upgrading and housing management components , respectively.
Table 3: RENTAL BENEFITS OF UPGRADING AND HOUSING MANAGEMENT
(TL/month)
Adana     Mersin    Tarsus      Iskenderun
Upgrading                     3,811      4,383      3,856        4,424
Housing Management            6,118      7,856     4,818         6,108
Although these values were used in the analysis, it should be emphasized that
the gecekondu surveys were not designed to provide valid comparisons among the
towns so much as to gain data on a variety of upgrading situations.
9.       Title Benefits.  Regressions of housing value on housing
characteristics indicated that the value of dwelling units with legal
individual tenure was 23 percent higher than the value of units without legal
tenure, other things equal. Adjusting for the 4 percent premium in rental
values of legal units, this implies that legalization itself results in a
property value increase of 19 percent. ERRs.have been calculated excluding as
well as including this "title" benefit. Title benefits were assumed to accrue
in the year that upgrading takes place, or, in the case of infill, when houses
are built, while rental benefits accrue starting after completion of the
upgrading.



- 178 -
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 8
10.      The numbers of housing units are forecast to increase linearly to the
capacity of the areas over the ten years following the installation of
infrastructures. ERRs have been estimated on a program rather than a site
basis, that is, calculating identical benefits for all households in each
town, and deducting costs of all roads, water, sanitation, and drainage works
in the upgrading and housing management program for that towr.. Operating and
maintenance costs were not estimated since they would be recovered from
tariffs and taxes not included in the benefit forecast.
Table 4:  ERRS OF UPGRADING AND HOUSING MANAVEMENT COMPONENTS
Adana     Mersin      Tarsus      Iskenderun
Upgrading
Base                                   96.0       61.4         34.4          73.3
Excluding title benefits               19.0       17.8         12.1          17.4
Benefits + 20%                        128.1       86.3         47.3         100.1
Benefits - 20%                         65.6       41.7         23.4          48.5
Costs + 201                            70.5       44.8         25.1          52.4
Costs - 20X                           136.3       89.0         50.8          NC
Delay benefits 1 year                  48.2       36.0         23.8          39.3
Housing Management
Base                                  133.2       73.0         32.9         118.1
Excluding title benefits               37.5       30.0         14.8          30.2
Benefits + 20%                        169.3       94.7         45.9         154.5
Benefits - 20%                         98.4       53.0         24.2         83.1
Costs + 20%                           104.1       56.2         25.6          38.1
Costs - 20%                           178.5      100.2         45.1         163.8
Delay benefits 1 year                  66.3       43.5         24.3          56.8
11.      Urban Expansion Areas.  Benefits of the UEAs were estimated as the
rental value of land sold for residential purposes, and the price of land sold
for commercial and workshop use. Analysis of the household and gecekondu
surveys indicated that the average ratio of rental to property value was about
5.5 percent, and this ratio was applied to land for families in the upper half
of the income distribution who, it was assumed, would in the absence of the
project find serviced land in other formal areas. For lower income people,
however, the alternative without the project would be an unserviced plot on
the urban periphery and for them the rental value of the land sold includes an
explicit adjustment to reflect the value of the services being provided by the
project. Their rental values were therefore estimated as the average rental
value of unserviced land derived from the gegekondu surveys plus the increment
in rental values applicable to housing units in housing management areas
(table 3 above). The rental values for Ceyhan were based on averages for the
other towns. These adjustments imply a rent to value ratio of 10.5 percent to
16.7 percent for low income households, depending on the town, as compared
with the 5.5 percent for the higher income households. A conservative bias
was imparted to the estimated benefits by excluding title benefits and any
benefits from households which



- 179 -
ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 8
would settle on the site in future years. Inclusion of title benefits on low
income households would increase ERRs for Tarsus and Ceyhan to 12.4 percent
and 8.4 percent. Costs were estimated as the annual rental value of the land
without the project (5.5 percent of capital value), investment costs of site
preparation, and on-site and off-site water, sanitation, drainage, and roads,
and operating costs of the HUDC. Future costs of operation and maintenance
were not estimated as they would be defrayed from tariffs, charges, and taxes
not included in rental values. Costs of electricity and telephones equipment
and installation were excluded since the benefits of those services were not
estimated. Similarly, costs of educational, health, and emergency facilities
were excluded as their benefits were not quantified. All costs of land,
water, sanitation, roads and civil works connected with electricity and
telecommunications, including those used by social facilities, were included
in costs, however, and this imparts a further conservative bias to the
estimated ERRs.
Table 5: RATES OF RETURN ON URBAN EXPANSION AREA COMPONENTS
Adana _L  Mersin    Tarsus    Ceyhan   Iskenderun
Base                         17.1         15.6        9.4      6.4       17.3
One-year delay benefits      13.6         13.3        8.3      5.7       13.7
Costs + 20%                  12.3         12.3        7.0      4.3       12.3
Costs - 20%                  25.7         20.6       12.8      9.2       26.3
Benefits + 20%               23.8         19.6       12.2      8.6       24.3
Benefits - 20%               11.5         11.6        6.5      3.8       11.3
Including title benefits    NC            NC         12.4      8.4       NC
1/  Although the Adana HUDC is not being financed under the project,
ERRs were calculated for purpose of comparison .
12.      As noted in para. 11, the ERRs for urban expansion areas are
conservatively estimated. The low value for Tarsus is closely associated with
the low estimate of rental benefits in that town, which may arise from
nonrepresentativeness of the sample. In the case of Iskenderun, high land
costs are an important factor, as they are in Ceyhan (in both towns, land
costs are expected to be a higher proportion of the cost of serviced land than
in the other towns).
13.      Water and Sanitation.  Benefits of water and sanitation investments
were estimated as the marginal value of incremental water consumed, plus
access benefits paid in the form of connection fees. Marginal value for each
group of consumers was estimated as the marginal tariff, including water
price, sewerage surcharge and VAT (at a rate of 12 percent). Incremental
water consumed was estimated as forecast water consumption, less estimated
consumption without investments to upgrade and expand water and sanitation
services. The "without investment" consumption was assumed to decrease at 2.5
percent per annum until the horizon. The sensitivity of the ERR to
consumption decreases without the project of 5 percent and zero percent per



- 180 -
ANNEX 13
Page 7 of 8
annum were also tested. Health benefits likely to arise from improved water
and sanitation services were not quantified. Costs included all forecast
investment costs in water and sanitation during the period 1987 to 1994
(including costs of ongoing Iller Bank works, and nonproject investments in
connections outside project areas and network investments which commence in
1993 and 1994 when the project is finishing). Operating costs allocable to
the project were estimated as the share of incremental water consumption to
total -ater consumption.
Table 6: ERRS OF WATER AND SANITATION COMPONENTS
Adana    Mersin      Tarsus     Ceyhan    Iskenderun
Base                        16.8      8.9         8.9        11.2        12.8
Without project
water supply decrease:
5*  per annum            20.4     10.9        13.4       15.1         16.0
0n  per annum            11.2      6.0        -2.8         3.9         7.6
Demand 4 202                24.1     13.0        13.6        lf,.2       19.5
Demand - 20%                 9.6      4.5         0.3         4.2         6.4
Capital Costs + 20%         12.8      6.6         6.0         8.4         9.5
Capital Costs - 20%         23.4     12.3        13.5        15.3        17.8
14.      Drainage, Road Maintenance, and Solid Waste.  The drainage components
would have a substantial impact on health in areas subject to flooding,
particularly in reducing incidence of malaria, hepatitis, dysentery, and
gastro-enteritis. It would also lead to some increase in property values (the
gegekondu survey found that, other things equal, housing units subject to
flooding earned rentals about 11 percent lower than other houses). The solid
waste components would produce two major benefits: improved efficiency of
collection, resulting in a better standard of service to customers, and
reduced environmental and health threats when existing unsystematic dumps are
replaced with properly managed landfills. The benefits of the road
maintenance component would be a better standard of roads, and, over time,
lower maintenance costs as routine and periodic maintenance activities reduce
the costs of emergency repairs and reconstructing heavily damaged roads. Due
to the importance of intangible benefits, and inherent difficulties of
estimating those benefits which are quantifiable, ERRs have not been estimated
for these components, which together account for about 17 percent of project
cost.
15.      Roads.  First year rates of return were estimated for the main road
segments to be upgraded in Adana, Mersin, and Tarsus. Benefits were estimated
on the basis of savings in vehicle operating costs and passenger time
savings. No estimates were made of savings froul accident reduction or reduced
maintenance expenditures. Time savings were estimated on the basis of
estimates of the speed of traffic with and without the project in 1992, in
turn based on forecast volume/capacity ratios for 1992 and speed/flow



- 181 -
ANNEX 13
Page 8 of 8
relationships derived from studies in Istanbul and abroad. Traffic growth
forecasts in Adana were based upon traffic counts made in 1986 weighted by
forecasted population increases in those mahalles (districts) served by the
roads, together with increases in travel,associated with income changes. Less
elaborate survey data were available in the other towns, and traffic forecasts
were based primarily upon forecasts of population plus a factor to reflect
increasing traffic flows, together with adjustments for specific segments
where traffic increases due to special circumstances are anticipated (e.g.,
development of the expansion area in Tarsus). Existing modal splits among
cars, motorcycles, trucks, buses, and animal-drawn carriages were assumed to
remain in 1992. Passenger time savings were valued at one third of estimated
wages (TL 87 for bus passengers, and TL 174 for car passengers in December
1985 prices). Operating cost savings were estimated for automobiles, trucks,
and buses. Rates of return are presented in table 7.
Table 7: FIRST-YEAR RATES OF RETURN (FYROR) ON ROAD COMPONENTS
FYROR
Adana
Karaissli Road                       105
Inner Ri.g Road 8'                    13
Eastern District Road                 25
Karatas Road                          76
Mersin
Camili Road                            3b/
Gozni Road                            20
Tarsus
Demirkapi-East UEA                    15
West Connector Road                   NC
E5-West Area                          15
Iskenderun                                      NC
Five roads, totalling 4.8 km.
a/  First phase to be constructed in project.
_/ This low ERR results from the facts that (i) the benefit measure does not
reflect the reduced road and vehicle maintenance costs from paving this
road, and (ii) the costs include purchase of a wider right of way which
will only be used after the project period.



- 182 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 1
TURKEY
CUKUROVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS OF THE PROJECT FILE
A. Documents
14   Draft feasibility Studies (one report on each town and project report
together with list of 70 supporting volumes in the Emena Information
Center)
2.   Transport Study for Adana, Mersin, Tarsus, and Iskenderun, Final
Report (8 volumes)
3.   Iller Bank Management Study, Draft Final Report (2 volumes)
4.   Municipal Training Centre: The Approach
B.  Working Papers (including diskettes with financial and economic analyses)
1.   Detailed Implementation Forecasts
2.   Detailed Cost Tables (COSTAB)
3.   Municipal Finance Analysis
4.   Housing and Urban Development Companies Financial Analysis
5.   Water and Sanitation Department Financial Analysis
6.   Economic Analysis



ROMANIA        30'                    40
,' r-- .... US IJSS.R                                                                                                         T        l
BULGARIAUR                                                                                                                         A
0% EQUKUROVA URBAN
'GREECE                    Ankara                             40               t
-40                    TURKEY
ISI-AMIC
MorsLA,dJana   ,,9,n,\, REPUBLIC
me'slAdana       -"OF IRAN
Area of/  SYRIA   / ' ~
&4w 'ARAB REP    IRAQ
30'     CYPRUS,        40
I,t                                                
Karalsali
0      5      10     15      20     Camliayla
KIL OME TERS
Arslankoy          _                                                                                       Yzne  GU fnay
Findikprnari                                    Huzurkent
a           l    ~~~~~~Camili                                  TAgt  T RSUS/
Anad I Os u                     Thread Factory                     Syntthetic F/be:
tyeyann d                                      T.and Textiles
Qe\mI    TMERSi                           ic
\   /   >r    \ F rtitizer ~ ~~~~poee lanat/
\    /  <       t'~~~ropos9cdArve rrade Zone/
/   ezitli 
/ oli                                                                   Tuzl/
Cewmeli/ Tece              3
Kargipinari    ¢,
Sahil Siteleri
Arpacibahai$
/ Erdemli        R
/    ocahasal
Limonlu



IBRD 20386
1 K  E Y
'VELOPMENT PROJECT  o
PROPOSED:
irsanti                                                                                            Urban Expansion Areas
Kozan                                Organized Industrial Estates
Free Trade Zone
Proposed Motorway
EXISTING:
Rivers and Irrigation Canals
Urban Ar.as and Settlements
\n't  I   Industries
\  <   /   /  Main Roads
--\--- t-   Railways
Ports
imamo5lu                                             International Boundaries
Osaniye
Ceukurova                                                                                                  rakkale
ni versy t
_    ADJtusy          lnda/ri
Cukurova Cement
aI SultutknAeldeand fertFaytry
0: 
industry
Iron and steel Mill )Paa
IsedrnOrganized industrial Estate
Sufuric Acid and FertilIe'
-*$SKENDERUN
; Kapatas
MARCH 1i17



