Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25003 MOZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR41.6 MILLION
(US$ 55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR THE
HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
March 10, 2003
Rural Development Operations 1
Country Department 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 21, 2002)
Currency Unit = Mozambican Meticais
MZM 23,733.00 = US$1.00
US$0.000042 = MZM 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADPP          Ajuda de Desenvolvimento de Povo para Povo
AMODEFA       Associacao Mocambicana Para o Desenvolvimento da Familia
CCSI          Community and Civil Society Initiatives
CBO           Community Based Organization
CDC           Centers for Disease Control (USA)
CNCS         National AIDS Council
CRIS          Country Response Information System
CSO           Civil Society Organization
DC            Direct Contracting
FBO           Faith Based Organization
GACOPI        Office of International Cooperation, Ministry of Health
HAART         Highly Active Anti-retroviral Therapy
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IEC          Information, Education, and Communication
MONASO        Mozambican National AIDS Services Organization
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
MTCT          Mother-to-Child Transmission
NAIMA         NGO AIDS Impact Mitigation Association
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
PEN          National Strategic Plan to Combat HIV/AIDS
PLWHA         People Living With HIV/AIDS
PSI          Population Services International
QCBS         Quality and Cost Based Selection
STD/STI       Sexually Transmitted Disease/Sexually Transmitted Infection
TOR           Terms of Reference
VTC           Voluntary Testing and Counseling
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNICEF        United Nations Childrens' Fund
UNV           United Nations Volunteer
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Darius Mans, Country Director
Sector Manager/Director:  Karen Mcconnell Brooks, Sector Manager
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   James Coates, Task Manager



MOZAMBIQUE
HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    13
3. Benefits and target population                                                   13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies   21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             23
4. Indications of recipient conmmitment and ownership                              24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:                                    25
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        26
2. Financial                                                                        27
3. Technical                                                                        28
4. Institutional                                                                    29
5. Environmental                                                                    35
6. Social                                                                           37
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               40
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   41
2. Critical risks                                                                   41



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                 43
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                        43
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                      44
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                     44
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                      45
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                51
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                     79
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary       80
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  82
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                83
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                      91
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                103
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                              105
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                             106
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                       108
Annex 11: Supervision Plan                                                          110
Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                 112
MAP(S)
IBRD 32324



MOZAMBIQUE
HIV/AIDS Response Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTRI
Date: March 10, 2003                               Team Leader: James H. Coates
Sector Manager/Director: Karen Brooks              Sector(s): Health (100%)
Country Manager/Director: Darius Mans              Theme(s): Other human development (P)
Project ID: P078053
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
Project Financing Data'.  .         .     '...                 -      -
] Loan     [ l Credit   [X] Grant    [ ] Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 55.00
'Financing Plan (US$m):.   Source -.L.ocal, --                             Foreign         Total:-
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                              9.00           0.00          9.00
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                                         23.70          31.30         55.00
Total:                                                         32.70          31.30         64.00
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE
Responsible agency: NATIONAL AIDS SECRETARIAT, MINISTRIES AND CIVIL SOCIETY
Executive Secretariat, National Council to Combat HIV/AIDS
Address: Rua Antonio Bocarro 106/144, Maputo, Mozambique
Contact Person: Mrs Janet Mondlane, Executive Secretary, National Council to Combat HIV/AIDS
Tel: 258 1 495 396           Fax: 258 1 495 395           Email: janet@virconn.com
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Health
Address: Av Eduardo Mondlane 1008
Contact Person: Dr. Francisco Songane, Minister of Health
Tel: 258 1 313 389           Fax: 258 1 427 133           Email: ffsongane@teledata.co.mz
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
Annual      2.90       6.90      11.00     14.40      16.50       3.30
Cumulative     2.90       9.80      20.80      35.20     51.70      55.00
Project implementation period: 2003 - 2008
Expected effectiveness date: 06/25/2003 Expected closing date: 12/31/2008



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project will assist the Government of Mozambique to finance the implementation of its National
Strategic Plan to Combat STD and HIV/AIDS. The strategy is designed to slow the spread of HIV/AIDS
infection and mitigate the effects of the epidemic, through prevention, care, treatment and mitigation
activities. The National Strategic Plan is multisectoral in nature, bringing together the efforts of
Government, civil society, private sector and communities in a national campaign to slow the rate of
infection and provide care for those who suffer from the disease, and for those who depend on them. The
effort is led by a National Council to Combat AIDS, chaired by the Prime Minister, which includes key
Ministers and leaders in civil society in its membership. The strategy is funded from the National Budget
and various local and international bilateral and multilateral contributors, including the United Nations
agencies and potentially the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The design of the
Mozambique strategy is well suited for support by the Bank under its Multicountry HIV/AIDS Program
for the Africa Region (MAP II), as it meets all of the strategic and institutional criteria for inclusion (see
Section D4). The Bank's MAP II for US $ 500 million was approved at the Board on February 7, 2002
(Doc No. IDA/R2002-4).
The project will: (i) improve institutional capacity for planning, delivery and monitoring of HIV/AIDS
response interventions through all levels of Government and its line ministries, civil society and the
private sector, with a focus on vulnerable groups; (ii) strengthen delivery of health services providing
prevention and care, giving priority to the more vulnerable regions of the country, such services to
include voluntary testing and counselling services and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases and
opportunistic infections related to HIV/AIDS; (iii) enable Government at the national and regional levels,
as well as through its line ministries, to carry out programs advocating prevention and providing care for
its own staff and communities; and (iv) fund a variety of projects led by civil society, including the
private sector, and carried out in urban and rural comnmunities, which cover HIV/AIDS related
prevention, advocacy, public awareness creation and care for orphans and PLWHA, with a focus on the
needs of vulnerable groups.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The National Strategic Plan to Combat HIV/AIDS and STDs establishes a series of output, process and
outcome indicators. The project will support efforts, already underway, to improve the capture and
assessment of this information. Indicators on output and process focus on coverage and quality of the
various advocacy, prevention, and care programs. Outcome and impact indicators will capture the long
term effect of the national AIDS campaign, but are unlikely to show dramatic change during the 5 year
implementation cycle of this project. However, by the end of the project period it is likely that certain
vulnerable groups will provide evidence of impact, due to the nature of the behaviour change process,
and the evolution of the disease. Surveillance has improved with the recent increase in the number of
centers -- from 4 to 20 in 2000. There should be 50 surveillance centers operational by full development,
permitting a broader and more reliable assessment of the status of the epidemic. This will also permit an
assessment of the effectiveness of the various activities being funded under the program. Key indicators
to be monitored under the program and targets to be achieved by 2008 are noted below.
-2 -



Input and Output Indicators
All secondary and tertiary health facilities have the capacity to diagnose and test for sexually transmitted diseases.
100 VTC centers, equitably distributed geographically, are in place.
At least 1,000 HIV/AIDS civil society initiatives funded by Province by year, at full development.
Have trained 500 national leaders, 5,000 provincial leaders and 2 Facilitating Agents per province in HIV/AIDS
elated programs
Funded line Ministries have achieved 75% of their annual HNI/AIDS outreach plan, and 75% of all civil servants
ave been reached by HIV/AIDS related IEC
Process (and coverage) Indicators
Over 500,000 clients reached annually by civil society initiatives on HIV/AIDS by 2008
Over 250 private sector clients funded by 2008
All public institutions disbribute condoms, with 30 million condoms distributed annually.
All blood for transfusion is screened for HIV
At least US$ 7 million per year is channeled to communities for civil society initiatives for HIV/AIDS.
Outcome Indicators
Use of condoms in sexual encounters outside of primary relationship in the last 12 months by persons 15-19, has
ncreased by 20% over levels achieved in 2002.
Age of first sexual encounter for youth 15-19 increased by I year from average in 2002
Number of sexual partners outside of primary union in last twelve months for population 15-49 declined by 10 %
from 2002 level
Impact Indicators
HIV infection rate amongst antenatal women and the 15-24 age group reduced by 25 % from rates in 2002
The responsibility for clearing action plans, establishing program indicators, collecting and analyzing this
information lies with the Secretariat to the CNCS. Work is underway on the design of a system for
capturing and analyzing this information. The operational aspects of the system are to be contracted to
private firms -- who will deliver reports and analytical services to the CNCS. This system will be in
place by the mid 2003. The basis for the system, targets and goals will continue to be the National
Strategic Plan to Combating HIV/AIDS and STDs, produced in 2000. This plan will have to be brought
up to date -- and targets realigned with accomplishments, and extended to a new horizon (potentially
2007). The responsibility for generating the epidemiological surveillance data lies with the Ministry of
Health - who will work with the CNCS to track the evolution of the disease and the response.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20521       Date of latest CAS disctssion: June 1, 2000
The most recent World Bank CAS for Mozambique has "Improving Human Capabilities" as one of its
three pillars, emulating the objectives of the Governments' Five Year program, and the PRSP. Within
this category, the CAS highlights the campaign against HIV/AIDS as the first issue, and calls it the
"largest single threat to Mozambique's prospects". Mozambique's PRSP (reviewed by the Board in
September 2001), calls for a multisectoral approach to the HIV/AIDS campaign, while emphasizing the
need for immediate action under the Education and Health sectors. The Government's National Strategy
to Combat HIV/AIDS and STDs, approved by Cabinet in October 1999, reinforces the multisectoral
approach, and outlines priorities and lines of action. Within the CAS, the HIV/AIDS epidemic ranks as
- 3-



one of the key risks to the achievement of the country's poverty reduction targets. The Bank committed
itself in the CAS to "galvanizing increased resources and offering new lending, if necessary, to step up
the program". The proposed project makes good on this commitment, and responds to a direct request
from Government to provide IDA resources to augment its efforts in the struggle against the virus.
The IDA grant allocation for this project has been made in accordance with the IDA Grants
Implementation Guidelines, under the facility for the financing national HIV/AIDS projects in IDA only
countries. This is the second project to be proposed for funding from an IDA grant in FY 2003. It
follows the Mozambique Public Sector Reforrn Project, funded with an IDA grant of US$ 25.6 million
under the IDA 'poorest countries' facilility, to be considered by the Board in mid March, 2003.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Country and Sector Backeround
Mozambique achieved independence in 1975. Since then it has suffered from civil war, flood and
drought, while defining and building its economic and social institutions. Since the early 1990's
Mozambique has succeeded in creating the institutions necessary to underpin both a democratic form of
Government, and an economy based on market principles. This framnework has the potential to deliver
rapid, sustained and broad based growth. These institutions, however, are weak, due fundamentally to
the lack of sufficient qualified and motivated staff. Incomes are low, with annual GDP per capita in the
range of US$ 230. Some 69% of the population consume below a minimum level designated as the
'poverty line', with poverty deeper in rural areas. Indices on literacy (40%), gross primary enrollment
(71%) infant mortality (147 per 1,000 live births), maternal mortality (1,083 per 100,000 deliveries) and
malnutrition (affecting 41 % of children under 5) are all low by African standards. All of these
indicators are averages. When these averages are opened up they reveal sharp differences across: (i)
gender, with women and girls having significantly lower living standards than men and boys; (ii)
rural-urban space, where the rural population fares significantly worse than the urban population on all
counts; and (iii) provinces, where Maputo city and province are significantly ahead of the rest of the
country.
Prevalence by Location
In 1999 life expectancy at birth in Mozambique was 44 years. Without the AIDS epidemic, this was
projected to reach 50 years by 2010. If the current rate of infection with HIV continues, AIDS will cause
life expectancy to drop to 36.5 years by 2010. The HIV prevalence rate for adults (ages 15-49) in
Mozambique has been recently estimated at 12.2% for the year 2000. The first infection was diagnosed
in 1986. By 1988 the prevalence rate in the city of Maputo was 1%, increasing to 9.9% ten years later,
and reaching 13% in 2000. The installation of 20 surveillance centers spread across the country in 2000
has permitted a much more reliable estimate of the progress of the disease. The new data reveals
dramatic differences in prevalence rates across regions as can be seen from the table below.
- 4 -



Adult HIV Prevalence by Province in 2000
Adult HIV    Total Population    Share of
Prevalence      in 2000        Total Population
Maputo City            13.0%              1,019           5.9%
Maputo Province        14.3%               934            5.4%
Gaza                   16.0%              1,203           7.0%
Inhambane               9.6%              1,256           7.3%
South            13.20%              4,412         25.6%
Sofala                 18.7%              1,454           8.4%
Manica                 21.1%              1,137           6.6%
Tete                    19.8%             1,320           7.7%
Zambezia               12,7/o            3,317           19.2%
Center           16.50%h            7,228          41.9%
Nampula                 5.2%             3,266           18.9%
Niassa                  6.8%              1,466           8.5%
Cabo Delgado            6.4%               871            5.1%
North            5.70%               5,603         32.5%
Uozambiaue            12.20%            17.243          100.0%
The highest prevalence rates are found in three provinces in the center of the country, Tete, Manica and
Sofala (19.8%, 21.1% and 18.7 % respectively) where there are active, high volume transport corridors to
Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi (three countries that have higher levels of HIV prevalence than
Mozambique -- the first two are above 20 % ). Gaza, the province which is home to the migrant miners
who work in South Africa, has the next highest rate, 16%. Maputo Province is home to a key transport
corridor to South Africa's industrial heartland, and has a prevalence rate of 13%. Maputo City, the
largest urban center, a port, a transport hub, and the highest income levels in the country, has a
prevalence rate of 13%. Zambezia, the most populous province with 19% of the population, and
extensive links to Malawi and central Africa, has a prevalence rate of 12.7%. The remaining four
provinces with 40% of the country's population, are largely rural, with prevalence rates well below the
national norm: Inhambane (9.6%), Nampula (5,2%), Cabo Delgado (6.4%) and Niassa (6.8%).
Geography matters. Mozambique's position as a transport corridor, which worked to its favor in the past,
is now a health liability. It is surrounded by countries with prevalence levels well above its own:
Swaziland and Zimbabwe at over 25%, Zambia and South Africa at 20 %, Malawi at 16% and
Botswana, in the center of the continent, at over 35%.
Prevalence by Age and Gender
Women are more likely to be infected than men, and girls 15-25 are more than twice as likely to be
infected as boys. In 2000 it is estimated that the prevalence rate for adult women (aged 15-49) was 13 %,
vs 11 % for men. There are also differences within age groups. Young women between the ages of 15
and 29 are much more likely to be infected than their male counterparts. On the other hand, men between
the ages of 30 and 44 are more likely to be infected than women of the same age group.



Overall HIV Prevalence by A-e GrouD in 2000
25%
pt20%-
0
0
0
' - 5n
0%A
O  0) 6       6      6     6     6      6 6 M
C  c     c') 1  n    u     (  C-. C. <   s   LO
Age group       |Male     *Female
Awareness and Behavior Change
Knowledge of the existence of HIV/AIDS appears, (according to a 1997 survey of adults 15-49), to be
almost universal in Mozambique, with 97% of those surveyed recognizing HIV/AIDS as a sexually
transmitted disease. Knowledge of two or more means of preventing HIV/AIDS is also high (85%
among both men and women. Over half (58%) of all respondents considered AIDS a serious problem for
their community and 65% thought the situation would get worse. Knowledge of HIV/AIDS is greatest
arnongst those in the highest risk categories -- urban men with money and access to mass media outlets.
This high level of awareness noted above is contested in other surveys, and doesn't seem to have resulted
in changes in sexual behaviour.
The main form of infection is an unprotected heterosexual sexual encounter, where women are more
vulnerable than men. However, only about one third of all sexually active adults used a condom at some
point in the past -- half of the men and one fifth of the women. Young people in the 15-24 age cohort,
where women are extremely vulnerable as the above chart indicates, seem to be aware of the dangers of
unprotected sex, but their behavior lags behind this knowledge. Recent data from a nationwide survey
carried out in 2001 by the National Institute of Statistics on sexual awareness and behavior of people
aged 15 to 24 indicates that some 79 % of the men and 82 % of the women in the age cohort had heard of
the disease -- with awareness higher in urban areas. A high proportion (85% for men and 70 % for
women) of those aware of the disease knew how it was transmitted, and of the measures that could be
taken to avoid infection. However, behavior change is not in line with awareness. Condom use is low.
As a national average for the age group, only 11% of the young men, and 6% of the young women, said
they used condoms in all sexual encounters, with use rates lower in rural areas. The most common
behavior change was a shift towards fidelity. The rate of condom use in the first sexual encounter is well
below these averages. The main reason given for non-use of contraception was lack of knowledge. Of
those young people who were single 25 % of men and 28% of women said they used a condom in their
most recent sexual encounter.
-6 -



A study on sexual behavior among youth (15-24) carried out by the Ministry of Health in 5 provinces and
Maputo City in 2000 indicated that the age of sexual debut was 15.7 years, slightly earlier for men and
later for women. At sexual debut, 85% did not use a condom (similar ratios for men and women) with
the most frequent reason for non-use being lack of knowledge. Non-availability was the second most
frequent reason for both sexes. Some 41 % of the youth reported having multiple sexual partners in the
past 6 months, with the ratio much higher for men than for women. Regarding their most recent sexual
encounter, this was with a non regular partner for 28% of the men, and 4 % of the women. In the most
recent sexual encounter, 37% of the men and 18% of the women used a condom. The most frequent
reason given for non-use was trust in the partner (for both men and women).
PL WH4 and Orphans
By late 2000 it is estimated that there were some 1.2 million people living with HIV/AIDS, 57% of them
women, and that the number was increasing at the rate of 500 persons a day. During the year 2000, more
than 57,000 persons died from complications associated with AIDS. Of these, some 25,000 were women,
many of them mothers. Their death has left an additional 60,000 children without a mother (often
without any parents at all). By the end of 2001, it is estimated there were some 400,000 children whose
mother had died, with half of these deaths attributable to AIDS. This burden has been absorbed by the
extended family, but there are limits to how much support is available. The burden is projected to grow
geometrically, as the number of adult deaths from AIDS increases rapidly in the coming years. It is
expected there will be some 1 million orphans to be cared for by 2008.
Stiema
One of the key issues which has affected the momentum of the HIV/AIDS campaign has been the
question of stigma. Only a small number of courageous individuals, living in urban areas, have revealed
their HIV positive status. They are subject to discrimination andjob loss, and are now slowly organizing
themselves into associations which can mobilize resources to care for them, and to allow them to
contribute to the advocacy campaign. At higher levels of society the issue is taboo. To date no
'leadership' figures have emerged, such as Magic Johnson in the USA, or Nkosi Jonson or Justice Edwin
Cameron of South Africa, declaring themselves positive and encouraging the society to act on the
epidemic.
The situation is improving however. In November 2001, the Mozamnbique parliament passed a law aimed
at protecting workers who are infected with HIV from discrimination at their workplaces. The bill,
passed unanimously by both the ruling FRELIMO party and opposition RENAMO lawmakers, makes it
illegal to sack workers on the grounds that they carry the HIV virus or suffer from AIDS. The legislation
also makes it illegal to carry out HIV tests on workers or job seekers without their consent. The law also
makes it clear that no worker is obliged to reveal their HIV status to employers, and health professionals
must keep HIV tests results confidential. Heavy fines are planned for breach of the law. While very
important, this law is not yet widely known or implemented.
Health Care in Mozambique
The health system in Mozambique consists of a network of 4 central hospitals, 12 provincial hospitals, 25
rural hospitals, 276 health centers and 736 health posts. It is estimated that about 40 percent of the
population have access to basic public preventive and curative health services and live within 10 km of a
facility. The National household survey of 1996/7 indicates that the closest medical service is the
traditional healer, located an average 1.5 km from the rural household. Doctors on the other hand are on
average 46 km away, and a health post 19 km away. Data on where people in the average village receive
- 7 -



health care reflect the access data. Traditional healers treat 94 percent of the people in the average
village, nurses 17%, midwives 20% and doctors only 2 %.
In 1997 about 44 percent of deliveries were assisted by a health professional, and 47 % of children aged
12-23 months received full immunization. While service outputs per capita are increasing, they are
unequally distributed with Maputo City residents receiving the best care. Within the provinces,
Zambezia (the largest) stands out as the one with the lowest care units per person. The efficiency of the
system has been improving gradually, with care units per staff person in 1999 up 12 % over the 1993
level. The quality of care is still low however, as the stark statistics in the previous paragraphs indicate.
The public health system in Mozambique is stretched thin, as it attempts to provide coverage for a large,
dispersed and poor rural population. Resource allocations have gradually increased, from 9 % of the
recurrent budget in 1998 to 13.4 % in 2000. However, coverage will only improve significantly once
incomes increase and families are able to finance service delivery from the private sector. Total
expenditure on public health in 1997 was $ 140 million, about $ 9.3 per capita.
Government Stratezv
In 1986 the first case of AIDS was verified in Mozambique. In 1988 the Ministry of Health initiated the
National AIDS Control Program -- which developed three medium term plans over the course of the next
decade, in the battle against HIV/AIDS. In 1988 and 1990 this Ministry led a multisectoral, cross
institutional group which included not only Government, but also civil society, NGOs and donors, in the
formulation of the first National Strategic Plan to Combat HIV/AIDS and STDs.
The Council of Ministers passed the first Strategic Plan to Combat HIV/AIDS and STD in October 1999.
It is a three year plan (2000 - 2002) and required an additional US $ 40 million for its implementation.
The Plan proposed the creation of an Inter-Ministerial AIDS Commission (a National Council to Combat
HIV/AIDS -- CNCS -- was approved in May 2000) and set out Guiding Principles as follows: (i)
addressing Priority vulnerable aroups -- those most vulnerable to infection and impact (young people
especially girls, highly mobile adults such as soldiers, miners, prisoners, drivers, and commercial sex
workers) and reducing impact for those living with HIV/AIDS. (ii) ensuring relevance - activities funded
should be those identified by the vulnerable groups as contributing most to reducing infection rates and
the impact of the disease; (iii) involving people living with HIV/AIDS -- recruiting them as activists and
giving them status hence reducing stigma; and (iv) focussing action on the three main transport corridors
(Maputo, Beira and Nacala) and the communities in and around them. The national response would be
to focus on quality and coverage of essential health and care services for the whole population as well as
the vulnerable groups. Institutions should be helped to overcome bureaucratic and financial obstacles to
action, and a premium would be placed on multisectoral cooperation agreements amongst all actors at
various levels to carry out target activities. Emphasis is placed on having this multisectoral approach
prevail at the macro and the community level.
The HIV/AIDS campaign had been led, from its inception in the late 1980s, by the Ministry of Health
which set up the National Program for Combating AIDS. During the initial decade, a broad educational
and awareness building program was developed, with wide participation by civil society and NGOs.
Condom distribution went up rapidly, reaching 10 million per annum by 2000. In spite of this, infection
rates have also increased rapidly, with prevalence going from under 1 % in 1990 to 12 % in 2000. This
rapid rate of infection infused new urgency into the program, and caused Government to try and broaden
the campaign. The recent approval of the National Strategy, the creation of the National Council and its
Secretariat, and the shift in leadership to these new bodies brought a period of change, as the new,
broader, multisectoral institutions were put in place. During the first year of implementation, plans were
developed for each Ministry and each Province, the Secretariat to the CNCS staffed and located in an
- 8 -



office, and a donor Round Table held which yielded commitments of US$ 120 million from donors in
support of the National Program (not all of it incremental funding). During the second year, with the new
leadership now in place, nationally run activities began to gear up. The focus was on prevention. The
Secretariat to the CNCS put professional staff in place in every province, linked to the Governor's office,
and began its cross-sectoral advocacy (to "Break the Silence"). It also established coordination functions
at all levels and locations of both the Government and the NGOs and private sector activists. A national
Coordination Forum was held in March 2001, and again in May 2002. Thematic groups were formed
around themes such as prevention, home based care, VCT centers and orphan care. A broad national
communication program was launched with assistance from local artists. During the year, new
associations of People Living With HTV/AIDS were forTned in Nampula, Inhambane and Sofala -- now
come together in a network of PLWHA in Mozambique. Also during 2000, the coverage of the
surveillance centers was greatly expanded -- from 4 to 20 centers -- providing much more accurate
assessments of the coverage and severity of the epidemic.
The Government has recently adopted a policy on ARV treatment, set out in Ministerial Diploma No
183-A/2001 published December 18, 2001. Under this policy, Government would develop its capability
to monitor and support ARV treatment in the general population, while at the same time strengthening its
capacity to treat and care for patients with opportunistic infections and diseases which result from AIDS.
The Government would charge for the 'reference' services provided in the monitoring of ARV treatment,
and the medication would have to be provided by the patient, or some source other than Government.
An exception to this is made in the case of preventing Mother to Child Transmission, and in the case of
health workers who are infected during the course of their work. Here, the Govemrnent finances the cost
of ARV treatment, in addition to the follow-up and monitoring costs.
The Executive Secretariat to the National AIDS Council has been established under exceptional
administrative, financial and personnel management conditions. Standard civil service procedures have
been set aside for a more flexible apparatus, which allows for the contracting of staff at market salaries,
the design and imnplementation of a 'purpose built' financial management and program monitoring system,
and an openness to measures needed to improve effectiveness, including hiring in functions as needed.
An Institutional Assessment was completed in December 2002 and provides a roadmap for building an
institution capable of discharging its functions in the expanded program. The Secretariat to date has
developed a proposal for a pooling mechanism for donor funds (the Common Fund), a Civil Society
Facility for Community Projects, and is formulating a national monitoring and evaluation strategy and a
communications strategy (see Section C4). These functions should be underway by the end of 2002,
which the CNCS has labeled the year for Quality and Integration.
Following a period of stock taking and reorganization into a broader, more multisectoral campaign, with
larger more forceful presence in the provinces, the National Council is now ready to launch a much
broader and more aggressive campaign. It is for that reason that it has approached IDA (along with the
Global Fund) for financial support.
The Mozambican strategy and approach to the HIV/AIDS campaign is one which conforms well with
access criteria set out by the Bank for its Multi-country AIDS Program for Africa (see Section D4) in that
a coherent national campaign strategy has been formulated and is under implementation, a high level
council has been established to lead the campaign, and the Government is taking extraordinary
institutional measures to ensure effective implementation of the program.
_9..



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The momentum behind the National Strategy to Combat HIV/AIDS is building. Issues which arise out of
the assessment laid out in Section 2 include the need to: (i) build capacity at the Secretariat to the
National Council in both the capital and the provinces, (ii) build coordination and coherence across the
stakeholders for the program as a whole -- sharing information on what participants are doing; (iii)
monitor, evaluate, and learn from what is happening under the campaign at present, and share this
learning across participants; (iv) engage more broadly in rural areas, (v) broaden the availability of
voluntary counselling and testing facilities - linking them to care in some way, so as to provide an
incentive to visit and take the test; (vi) broaden social and institutional support for care for PLWHA and
orphans; (vii) obtain increased financial support from donors, in order to ratchet up the amount of money
available to those engaged in the campaign and the speed with which it gets to them, and (viii) improve
the quality of financial management and reporting on the funds utilized.
The proposed project will respond to the priorities of the National Strategic Plan and address those issues
noted above under five components (which follow the standard for MAP projects).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The objective of the project is to slow the spread of HIV infection in Mozambique, and mitigate the
effects of AIDS, through prevention and care activities. The design process, led by the Executive
Secretariat to the CNCS has been transparent and participatory, carried out in frequent consultation with
the Ministry of Health and other Government agencies, NGOs, private sector, donors and other
stakeholders. The project has five components as described briefly below. Implementation issues are
discussed in section C 4.
(i) Community and Civil Society Initiatives (- US$ 28 million) - This component would empower
communities to respond effectively to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. A central activity would be mobilizing
communities, promoting local initiatives and strengthening the capacity of local actors. A Community
and Civil Society Facility held by the CNCS would be created to finance appropriate HIV/AIDS related
activities carried out by eligible applicants. These include community and faith-based organizations,
NGOs, the private sector, associations and other organizations. The management of the facility would be
decentralized to the provincial level, in support of a provincial program to combat HIV/AIDS. Significant
resources would be invested at the Province level to strengthen the Secretariat and other organizations --
public, private and NGOs -- to carry out the program. Criteria and procedures for project preparation and
approval are specified in the Operational Manual, and cover: (i) the principles of operation; (ii) eligible
applicants; (iii) institutional arrangements and facilitating agents; (iv) eligible activities, (v) the
allocation of resources by province, and (vi) the features of the project identification, preparation,
approval and supervision cycle. Activities to be funded, all of which link to the HIV/AIDS campaign,
include dramatic representations, seminars and talks to emphasize prevention, seminars and other kinds
of assistance providing guidance and support to care-givers and those providing foster homes for orphans
and widows, schemes for generating income to replace losses due to AIDS deaths, and guidance on
treatment for oportunistic diseases, and ARVs. The implementation process is designed to be managed
in a decentralized fashion, with support and decisions making occurring at provincial level. The process
should be open and participatory, with the main stakeholders represented on a provincial Technical
Council which will oversee the process. Subprojects would be for two or three year duration. Subprojects
valued at less than $ 20,000 would be approved at the provincial level. A maximum project size of
$100,000 is envisioned. Facilitating Agents, potentially NGOs or private sector entities, would be
- 1 0 -



contracted to work with community agents to foster program identification and proj ect preparation at the
community level, and the preparation of project proposals to be funded by the Community and Civil
Society Facility. One set aside of US$ 5 million from the CCSF is allocated to support large NGOs
providing voluntary counselling and testing services and supplementary health care services related to
HIV/AIDS in collaboration with, and under the supervision of, the Ministry of Health. A second set
aside of US$ 2 million will be used to support HIV/AIDS initiatives to be carried out by the private
sector, under conditions set out in the Operations Manual.
fii) Camacitv Buildine for the Civil Society HIV/AIDS Response (- US$ 5.5 million) -- this
component will support efforts to create AIDS competent communities by improving skills and
increasing implementation capacity for the implementers, supporters, and target groups active under the
Community and Civil Society Initiatives. Activites to be funded would include (i) hiring and training
'Facilitating Agents' who would take the lead, in each province, in identifying and training up
organizations for community mobilization; (ii) courses and activities to build awareness development and
build capacity for leadership in the public sector, civil society and the private sector, and (iii) and the
formulation of training modules in HIV/AIDS awareness for use in public and private sector enterprises.
Specialized packages of Information, Education and Communications (IEC) materials would be
developed and distributed through this effort.
(iii) Government Multisector Response (- US$ 7 million) -- Ministries and subordinate institutions
will be supported under this component in the development and implementation of HIV/AIDS related
programs directed toward their own personnel (particularly high risk staff such as soldiers, police,
extension agents, teachers, health workers) and their families, as well as programs directed toward their
clients. Under this component, ministries are encouraged to expand their activities in the area of
HIV/AIDS according to the National Strategic Plan for combating HIV/AIDS and the Ministerial Plans.
The program will therefore concentrate on non-health ministries and other key public sector institutions
to effectively respond to the epidemic. Emphasis will be made on prevention and care for infected and
affected families. The activities included in the program for financing are categorised in two parts: part
(i) will focus on staff and their families by providing them with HIV/AIDS education, training, condoms,
support for caring for infected and affected, encouraging behavioural change, and destigmatizing the
illness at the work place; and part (ii) will focus on the external clients of the respective ministries. It is
envisaged that the second part activities will have a close link with activities to be implemented under the
civil society component. Support will be provided to facilitate respective outreach programs of various
ministries. These would include conmnunity based activities involving youth associations, sporting clubs,
cultural groups, farmers clubs, women's groups, street children, orphans, teachers, school councils,
parents-teacher associations, activists, and any other groups as may be identified with relevant agencies.
In each of the line ministries, a Focal Point has been appointed, and is supported by ministerial and/or
departmental management committees designated to oversee the design and carrying out of HIV/AIDS
related policies and action plans. The Focal Points have received, and will continue to receive training
and day-to-day guidance on their roles and responsibilities form the Ministry Response Coordinator
situated at CNCS head office. As the case may be, the project will facilitate the operations of the Focal
Points through ensuring availability of basic office equipment, facilities, and incremental operating costs.
With guidance from the Provincial Government and the Ministry of State Administration, District
Administrators would be engaged to foster the development of District HIV/AIDS plans.
(iv) Strenathenine and Scaline UD Health Sector Services for HIV/AIDS (- US$17.5 million) --
With the objective of scaling up the response of the health sector to the H1V/AIDS epidemic and to
provide technical leadership on treatment and care for people living with HIV/AIDS, this component
would include: (i) the strengthening of the Integrated Health Network providing voluntary counselling
-I1 -



and testing and HIV/AIDS related services in the four provinces in the center of the country (Tete,
Manica, Sofala and Zambezia) where prevalence rates are highest, and where there is still no significant
upscaling prograrn underway; (ii) increasing the supply of HIV/AIDS related drugs and materials, such as
the supply of condoms, drugs to treat opportunistic infections, anti-retrovirals for the reduction of MTCT
and post exposure prophylaxis; (iii) strengthening clinical laboratory capacity to enable diagnosis and
monitoring of HIV therapy including those for CD4 monitoring and diagnosis of opportunistic
infections; (iv) measures to enhance bio-security; (v) measures to enhance blood safety; (vi) training and
antiretroviral drugs for post-exposure profilaxis for health sector workers; (vii) improved management of
opportunistic infections, focussing on their prevention via prophylaxis, as well as their treatment as
mentioned; and (viii) improved management monitoring and evaluation of the component and the overall
progress of the epidemic. In line with Government priorities, and consonant with the distribution of
current efforts to combat the epidemic, the project would support the strengthening of a network of
health centers in the center of the country, in order to respond to the high prevalence rates and density of
vulnerable groups. These centers would be specialized in providing voluntary counselling and testing for
HlV, treatment for STDs, guidance and training for individuals and associations in ARV treatment, and
guidance in Home Based Care for PLWHA and their families, and orphans. They would be established
under the guidelines and with overall supervision and monitoring from the Ministry of Health. Modern
health care in Mozambique is heavily reliant on public sector delivery in tirban areas. In rural areas, the
public sector is the only source of modem health care, with few exceptions. The component would focus
on strengthening the strategic planning and monitoring capabilities of the Ministry, as well as its capacity
to deliver care. However, due to current capacity limitations in the Ministry, operations linked to
HIV/AIDS such as voluntary counselling and testing and support for home based care, would be
contracted out initially to NGOs and other partners. These contracts are costed under the Community and
Civil Society Initiatives component, as they will be funded from the Community and Civil Society
Facility. The World Bank has supported the development of the health care system in Mozambique since
1995 through the Health Care Recovery Project. This component, focussing on HIV/AIDS related care,
will build on the accomplishments in the prior operation. Results and achievements under the Health
Care Recovery Project are reviewed in section D2.
(v) Institutional Develooment for Program Mananement (- US$ 6 million) -- This component would
target the Executive Secretariat of the National Council, strengthening its capacity to lead the country in
the campaign. The CNCS Secretariat is one of two implementing agencies for the IDA Grant, the other
being the Ministry of Health. Under this component the CNCS will significantly improve its capacity to
coordinate the National HIV/AIDS Program and carry out project management. This includes carrying
out overall planning, budgeting and coordination of the National Aids Program, catalyzing greater
involvement by society in the HIV/AIDS response, channeling of funds to implementing agents and
monitoring of program execution to ensure compliance with Program objectives and fiduciary
responsibilities. A major objective is to build the capacity of the CNCS provincial nucleos to undertake
responsibility for planning, mobilizing and channeling resources, and coordinating and monitoring of
HIV/AIDS activities in a particular province. Institutional development efforts include: (i) capacity
building for the CNCS Board and the Executive Secretariat; (ii) strengthening organizational
arrangements and financial management at the center and province; (iii) strengthening monitoring and
evaluation; (iv) formulation and monitoring of a national communications strategy; (v) creation of a
supportive regulatory environment and (vi) building a strong coalition across civil society and donors at
national and provincial level in support of a multi-agent, multi-faceted community based approach to
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment in Mozambique. A key principle of the HIV/AIDS program is
that the Secretariat is charged with coordination and oversight, but actual implementation of programs
would be contracted out to NGOs or private sector or other civil society agents, or invested in line
agencies. Further information on these tasks is provided in Section E 4.
- 12 -



Indicative Project Costs are listed below:
get.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IU.                                    'Bi 4l :tfff 
Community and Civil Society Initiatives              27.80      43.4     25.00      45.5
Capacity Building for Civil Society HIV/AIDS Response  5.50      8.6      4.70        8.5
Government Multisectoral Response                     7.20      11.3      5.60       10.2
Strengthening and Scaling Up Health Sector HIV/AIDS  17.50      27.3      14.60     26.5
Institutional Development for Program Management      6.00       9.4      5.10        9.3
Total Project Costs  64.00    100.0     55.00     100.0
Total Financing Required   64.00     100.0     55.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The basic policy and institutional platform for a successful multisectoral campaign has been set. The
project would support the implementation of the National Strategic Plan to Combat H1VYAIDS --
formulated in 1999 in a consultative fashion with civil society and donors, and approved by the Council
of Ministers in October 1999. The National AIDS Council (CNCS), established in 2000 brings together
the key Government and civil society players, and will enable them to lead the campaign. Legislation
aimed at reducing discrimination and stigma has been passed. In the context of the National Plan, the
Bank funded project would seek to (i) ensure buy-in frorn the various ministries on their pro-active
support for the program; (ii) develop a decentralized promotion force, through the National Secretariat, to
carry action out to the Provinces and Districts -- including the funding of the civil society and comnmunity
action plans; (iii) carry the promotion, (treatment where appropriate) and care activities down to the
community level -- with particular emphasis on the rural communities where indices of awareness and
involvement lag; (iv) target youth, using the communication strategy and the counselling and testing
facilities as well as Ministry of Education and Ministry of Youth programs -- making sure that the
approach is one which will indeed respond to their susceptibility's and needs; and (v) work with People
Living With HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and the general population to reduce stigma, particularly in rural
areas, following on the successful work started in Maputo and other urban centers.
3. Benefits and target population:
The entire population, 17.5 million people, will benefit from the broader advocacy and awareness
creation programs supported by the project, as well as fiom the voluntary counselling and testing
services, promotion of condoms, increased quality and coverage of health services, safer blood supplies,
and reduced transmission from the high risk groups to the rest of the population.
In consonance with the priorities set out in the National Strategy, the project will address the needs of:
(i) the high risk groups including young people especially girls, highly mobile adults, teachers, soldiers,
migrant miners, prisoners, drivers and commercial sex workers (see section A.2 of the PAD); (ii) the high
risk areas listed in the Strategy, particularly the three East-West transport corridors in the South, Center
and North of the country (see section A.2); (iii) people living with HIV/AIDS (estimated at 1.2 million in
2000) with the objectives of reducing stigma, improving care and-treatment services provided by the
Government and the community, and also including them in the advocacy and prevention programs; and
(iv) orphans - improving the care and assistance provided institutionally, or to the families that have
assumed responsibility for them.
-13 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period -- 5 years
Government Institutions
The National Council to Combat HIV/AIDS was approved by the Council of Ministers in 2000 -- as part
of the National Strategy. The members of the Council and its Executive Secretary were in place by mid
2000. The National Council is headed by the Prime Minister (President), and includes: (i)
Government: Six Ministries as follows: Minister of Health (Vice President), Minister of Foreign
Affairs and Cooperation; Minister of Finance and Planning, Minister of Women and Social Action,
Minister of Youth and Sports; and Minister of Education; (ii) Nongovernment Organizations: Five
NGOs as follows: MONASO (the umbrella NGO for AIDS), Kindlimuka (the largest NGO for
PLWHA), AMODEFA (provides health care), OMM (present in almost every community), ADPP (with
Danish affiliation, involved in education); (iii) Individuals from Civil Societv a Frelimo
Parliamentarian; the Rector of the Catholic University, and the Head of a prominent Youth Association.
The Executive Secretariat to the National Council has been given the mandate to lead, catalyse,.
coordinate and monitor all activities in support of the National Strategy -- while not involving itself in the
actual implementation of programs. It functions in close cooperation with the Ministry of Health. The
Secretariat has established a National Office in Maputo, and a Provincial Nucleus in each of the ten
provinces. Headed by the Executive Secretary, the agency is divided into a Planning and Budgeting Unit,
a Technical Unit, and a Project Support Unit. Over the past two years, a network of HIV/AIDS focal
points has been created across Government and the Provinces. Every Ministry has named an AIDS focal
point, and while some Ministries have developed an indicative Ministry Plan to Combat HIV/AIDS --
few of these are actually being implemented. Focal point functions remain incipient, and weak in
influence and power. In addition, the Secretariat has worked with each Province to formulate a
Provincial Plan to Combat HIV/AIDS --- in an effort to mobilize provincial Government and civil society
within the province. Many of these plans are still dormant, for lack of funding and leadership.
The Executive Secretariat has also convened two National Fora to review the status of the HIV/AIDS
Campaign-- one in March 200l, and a second in May 2002. This event, which is expected to continue
to occur annually, brings together all the key institutions active in the HIV/AIDS campaign, from both
Government and civil society, for two days of review, reflection, guidance and training.
Civil Society Institutions
Civil society has formed an umbrella NGO, to lead on all aspects of the campaign: MONASO. While
they have limited capacity at the national level, they are well recognized in the large urban centers,
including Maputo, and they serve as a center for discussion and coordination for AIDS related topics
with NGOs. A society of PLWHA - Kindlimuka -- plays a lead advocacy role, mainly in the South of
the country. In addition, there are a large number of local and international NGOs who, working
collaboratively, are active in the HIV/AIDS field. The international NGOs have grouped themselves into
an association called NAIMO, and include Medecines Sans Frontiers, PSI, CARE, ADPP, World Vision
and others. The CNCS Executive Secretariat is also active in coordinating the activities of civil society
at a national level. A series of four thematic groups have been created, to bring together the many
NGOs, donors and private sector participants engaged in HIV/AIDS awareness building or care activities.
These groups cover: (i) Prevention; (ii) Home based care; (iii) Voluntary counselling and testing; and
(iv) the care of child orphans. The level of involvement of the NGOs in the campaign depends on the
activity and the Province. Associations of Persons Living With HIV/AIDS have been formed in Maputo
(Kindlimuka) and are in the process of being set up in Inhambane (UTOMI), Nampula (Nivenyee),
Sofala (Kulupira) and Manica (Kubatsirana). The CNCS Provincial Coordinators in Niassa, Cabo
Delgado, Nampula, Zambezia, Tete, Manica, Sofala, Inhambane, Gaza, Maputo Province and Maputo
- 14 -



City have brought together groups of NGOs, churches, private companies and other actors to carry
forward the camnpaign. Funding for these activities is largely provided from own sources, or from donor
funds designated for the purpose, and such funding has been scarce. A Civil Society Fund is proposed
under the project, to respond civil society's needs.
Donor SuDDort
To date, the donors have channelled most of their support through NGOs, the UN System, or civil society
organizations. Due to the diversity of implementation channels and contracting mechanisms, it is difficult
to track all the activities, or account for all the donor funds being used in the campaign. The donors with
the largest program commitments (multi-year data, which makes comparisons difficult) include DFID
with US$ 30 million, USAID (and CDC) with some US$ 28 million, followed by Denmark with US$ 11
million, the UN system with $ 10 million (where UNFPA and UNICEF provide over half the total, and
where there may be some double counting of donor contributions), Norway with US$ 7 million, the
European Union with US $ 6 million (for Mozambique, out of a larger allocation for regional SADC and
Africa wide initiatives), Germany with US$5 million, and then Canada, Australia, France, Italy, and
Netherlands with between US$1 and US$3 million each. Ireland and Spain made contributions as well.
The donors have a group which meets regularly to coordinate HIV/AIDS and Health activities. The
CNCS Secretariat is also active in donor coordination and resource mobilization. In November 2000 and
again in November 2001 the Executive Secretariat organized a Donor round table in Maputo, to report
on the Government's activities in the implementation of the National Plan, and to raise funding. The first
Roundtable in 2000 raised commitments from of donors of $ 120 million (for multiyear implementation).
In the second Roundtable in 2001, the Common Fund was introduced, as a mechanism for pooling donor
funds received in support of alr activities in the HIV/AIDS campaign. This event raised about US$ 10
million from donors as a contribution to the Common Fund. It is the hope of the Executive Secretariat
that, once the issues regarding review and govemance procedures and the financial management and
reporting systems have been ironed out, donors will be able to channel an increasing share of their
support via the Common Fund.
Implementation of the IDA Funded Activities
At the national level the CNCS Executive Secretariat would coordinate implementation of all the
activities funded under the project. The Secretariat has been building up the capacity to operate in a
decentralized fashion over the past two years. An office has been established in each Province, and
staffed with a Provincial coordinator and a financial specialist. Financial management and monitoring
systems have been designed. However, very few programs have been funded through the CNCS
Secretariat to date, for lack of its own funds. During preparation for the IDA project, an Institutional
Assessment was carried out, and will be used to recommend on ways to strengthen the Secretariat, to the
CNCS Board. The assessment will also guide IDA's investments under the Program Coordination
component, and its recommendations for project implementation. The implementation of the PPF,
approved in October of 2002, will enable the Secretariat, and other implementing agencies, to test
different insitutional modalities, thresholds, preparation and review procedures. Results will be included
in the final consolidated Operational Manual.
Under this umbrella, there would be two coordination foci: (i) the Executive Secretariat, which would
hold two Special Accounts, one to finance the Civil Society Facility, and a second one to finance the
remaining components, with the exception of the health component; and (ii) the Ministry of Health,
which would receive its funds directly from IDA via a third Special Account, and would implement its
agreed workplan for the Health Sector component. Project implementation, financial management,
procurement, monitoring and evaluation would be operated through the institutional management and
accounting systems of the Executive Secretariat and of the Ministry of Health.
- 15 -



All aspects of implementation of the program, and the Bank funded project are set out in the Operational
Manual. The manual sets out performance objectives, institutional modalities, criteria and processes. It
also has model forms and contracts to guide the various actors during the implementation period The
manual has been prepared in a participatory fashion, led by the CNCS, and has been reviewed and will be
agreed on with the Government and stakeholders prior to Grant effectiveness. Procedures and
institutional arrangements set out in the Manual are being tested under the IDA funded.Project
Preparation Facility of $ 880,000.
Implementation of the Community and Civil Society Initiatives and the Civil Society Capacity Building
components would be delegated to a large number of insititutions, in the NGO, private and public sector,
best placed to lead HIV/AIDS campaign activities in their particular community. These organizations
would be appraised by the'Secretariat, or institutions contracted to the Secretariat, prior to entering into
funding agreements with them. A training and strengthening building program would be put in place to
strengthen administrative capacity for local institutions with the mandate, interest and community
relationships needed to carry out HIV/AIDS related activities. The activities under this, the largest
component, would be carried out following the procedures and criteria set out in the Operational Manual.
Promotion, preparation, review and approval procedures and thresholds and structures are based on a
decentralized management structure. They have been designed based on experience to date with this kind
of program in country, and in other parts of Africa. The structure and approval points and thresholds will
be tested under the PPF, and may need to be revisited by the CNCS management. IDA would need to be
consulted on any changes in such thresholds and procedures. In addition, certain fmnancial and
monitoring activities may need to be outsourced by the Secretiariat. An assessment of potential workload
and number of transactions should guide the capacity building and the decisionmaking on the option of
in-house as opposed to out sourcing. We recognize the overall shortage of professionals in financial
management in the country and recommend a careful workload assessment and decision making as to
how much capacity should be built in-house and how much should be targeted for out sourcing.
The component supporting the Government Multisectoral Response would be implemented by each of
the sectoral ministries, making use of their internal management and financial systems, strengthened to
carry the HIV/AIDS related activities with funds provided under the project. Ministries would not be
funded unless they had an HIV/AIDS action plan approved by the CNCS, with a focal point and an
HIV/AIDS office in place.
The Ministry of Health would implement the Scaling Up of Health Care Services component by making
use of management systems developed in the course of implementing the Bank funded Health Recovery
Project (Cr 27880). Recently, the MOH has developed a financial management system and an
epidemiological monitoring system which are already operational.
Project coordination would be the responsibility of the CNCS Secretariat. The Secretariat is receiving
support for institutional strengthening under a project funded by USAID which includes technical
assistance, hardware and training for the design and installation of a purpose built financial management
system, and a national database of HIV/AIDS related activities. These will result in the production of all
procedures manuals and training in the operation of the systems. Technical assistance on the financial
side is provided by two internationally recognized management consulting and auditing firms. Technical
assistance on the activities database and monitoring is provided by the Centers for Disease Control.
Design of these systems has been completed, and training is underway. The CNCS is also in the process
of recruitment of accountants and internal auditors based on the proposed design and structure of the
internal control systems. The UNDP is also funding a capacity strengthening program for the CNCS,
which is in its first year. This project will provide technical assistance to support internal training
programs, and staff to strengthen the coordination of the Civil Society Initiatives component at Provincial
- 16 -



level. The Bank funded project would provide additional financial, procurement and program staff, along
the requisite hardware and training, as needed to enable the decentralized coordination of the growing
HIV/AIDS program.
Financial Manaeement. Accounting and Auditin2
As noted above and described more fully in Annex 6,-the Secretariat would be responsible to the
Government, the Bank and other donors for ensuring that sound financial management principles are
used in support of prograrn implementation. Significant resources (provided by USAID) have been
invested in the design and setup of financial management and administrative systems for the Secretariat.
A management consulting and auditing firm of international repute has been contracted to carry out these
tasks. After over a year of effort, an accounting system is in place (which is designed to respond to the
reporting needs of both the donors and the Government), the hardware has been purchased and installed
at the center and all provincial offices, financial management staff have been hired for all locations, and
comprehensive training programs are underway. The Secretariat has an Administrative Manual, which
establishes personnel management policies and the procedures for maintenance and management of its
assets.
A separate contract has been entered into with another international management consulting and auditing
firm, to design and put in place a financial system for tracking funds received from donors for use in
support of Community and Civil Society Initiatives. This system is now operational, and being used for
the funds received to date from the Irish Government and the DFID.
An internal auditing function for the Secretariat has been designed, and two auditors have been hired to
provide continuous visits to the provincial offices to ensure procedures are being followed.
Executing agencies of the project include the Secretariat and its eleven Provincial Nuclei, the Ministry of
Health, the various Ministries which receive support for their HIV/AIDS programs, the larger NGOs who
lead in the civil society initiatives, and a multitude of recipients of funds at the local and community level
(including NGOs, CBOs, and Private Sector companies). Agents responsible for the use of funds
provided under the project will be appraised by the Secretariat prior to entering into funding
arrangements with them. Forms and procedures are spelled out in the Operational Manual. A capacity
building program has been designed to bring agents under the project up the appropriate level of financial
and admninistrative sophistication (this will vary by the magnitude of the funding involved) prior to
providing implementation responsibility. The program will rely on other sources to strengthen agents'
internal control structures. The Government is improving its own financial and administrative structures
under the SISTAFE program supported by the Bank's Public Sector Reform project. A number of NGOs
receive support from donors, or from their international affiliates, and will be required to provide
assurances of good fiduciary practices. In particular, there will be a number of large NGOs (most of them
of international origin) who will carry out voluntary counselling and testing, training in home based care,
and treatment for opportunistic diseases -- under the technical supervision of the Ministry of Health --
who will be financed from the Civil Society Initiatives fund. Specific forms and procedures will be
designed under the PPF for use in this activity, which has been budgeted at up to $ 5 million over the
project period.
The Ministry of Health would be responsible for the imnplementation of the Upscaling of Health Services
component. Due to the volume of funds to be managed under this component, a separate Special Account
will be established for the Ministry of Health. Voluntary counselling and testing and other health care
functions, contracted out initially to large international NGOs with sufficient capacity and expertise, will
be supervised by the Ministry of Health, but funded by the Secretariat under the civil society initiatives
- 17 -



component. The Project Management Office (GACOPI) in the Ministry of Health which has supported
the implementation of the IDA funded Heath Sector Recovery Project (IDA Credit 27880) since 1996,
will be strengthened in order to have it continue to provide both procurement and financial services to the
Ministry of Health and the Secretariat (for large international purchases) under the proposed project.
Consistent with guidelines issued by the Financial Management Board to ensure compliance with OP/BP
10.02, during the appraisal mission a Bank AFTQK team carried out its assessment of financial systems,
procedures and capacities to determine whether, when project implementation starts, there will be
adequate financial management systems and capacity in place to ensure the production of reliable and
useful reports on the project resources and expenditures and other useful information on a timely manner.
The conclusions of this assessment are that additional measures are needed to strengthen the system.
Key actions will be taken by Grant effectiveness (see Section G. 1 of the PAD). Further aspects of the
assessments are noted in Annex 6. A final review of the financial management system and capacity will
be carried out by the Bank staff to assess readiness, before the Grant is declared effective.
Plannink and Budgeting
The planning and budgeting cycle has been designed to fit the National Budget. Annual budget requests
would be prepared at the provincial level by mid-year, within ceilings provided by the Secretariat.
Allocations for the annual funding of community and civil society activities for each province would be
arrived at following criteria based on population, prevalence and prior year performance. The budget
requests would be reviewed at provincial and central level, and then consolidated for presentation to the
Ministry of Planning and Finance. Approval of the final allocation and spending authority from the
National Budget would be received prior to the start of the fiscal (calendar) year. In addition, the budget
request would be submitted to the Bank and donors for comment and review, at an armual event to be
organized in a fashion which follows successful precedents set in the Sector Wide Approach used for
Agriculture, Health and Education in Mozambique.
The approvals for civil society initiatives would be carried out over the course of the year, using
procedures, criteria and thresholds provided in the Operations Manual. Support for the Community and
Civil Society Initiatives component, and the Civil Society Capacity Building component would be
through a decentralized, province-based program management system. The planning and budgeting
exercise for these components was initiated in the 2002 budgeting cycle. The provincial plans have been
carried to a reasonable level of detail, although further work wiUl be needed before they can be
implemented. The formulation of consolidated Provincial plans has been well executed, and will
provide an excellent basis for a decentralized planning and implementation process. The planning and
budgeting for the Multisectoral Ministry Response component takes place at the central level. Indicative
ministerial plans had been prepared. The Secretariat is working with each of the ten key Ministries in the
formulation of a much tighter, targeted, program, to fit within the available resources. While the
planning and budgeting procedures have been set out and discussed at the central level, much further
training and documentation is needed at the Province level to put in place participatory systems which
will produce plans which reflect local capacity, and can indeed be implemented.
Procurement
The Secretariat has defined positions and is hiring staff to carry out the procurement process to be used
in each of the components, in a manner consistent with the appropriate Bank guidelines. The Secretariat
intends to rely on the office of GACOPI in the Ministry of Health for any large procurement procedure,
including any international competitive bidding. A Procurement Plan has been prepared as part of the
draft Project Implementation Plan -- and procedures and thresholds for each item have been set out in
Annex 6 and the draft Operational Manual. A large share of the project will be used as grants in support
of a large number of small community development subprojects, and will be subject to simplified



procedures specified in the Operational Manual.
Monitorina and Evaluation
The current M and E framework is characterized by one component that is well developed (the biological
subcomponent of the surveillance system), one component that is under active development (financial
monitoring) and two components that require further attention (the overall M and E architecture and
program activity monitoring). The status of the system as a whole is described in more detail in Annex 2.
The design of the overall M and E architecture is well advanced. The M and E manuals and the Country
Response Information System (CRIS) represent major contributions. The indicator sets that have been
developed are of high quality, and reflect intensive commitment and consultation. However, these
indicators may be too complex to be implemented initially, and a more simple set has been agreed on for
startup. In addition, to bring the system architecture to a. position where implementation can be initiated,
there is a need for: (i) a single governing flowchart and database, to ensure that all information is
captured in a single structured form; and (ii) a single unitary system, based on nationally agreed data
collection forms and pathways, leading to a single data base. External consultants will be hired under
the project to work on further refmement of the system, and assist in startup activities. Periodic
assessments of key aspects of the program will be organized by the Secretariat and carried out under
contract. These will provide the background and material for annual Learning Events and Progress
Reviews by all stakeholders, starting at the provincial level and leading to a National Assessment. Other
learning events and study tours would be built into the program.
ODerations Manual
A draft Operations Manual has been prepared, in close consultation with the Secretariat. During
appraisal the review was extended to donors, NGOs and other stakeholders who are likely to make use of
the procedures spelled out therein. An effort has been made to define the general institutional framework
for the program, and to delineate the strategies, policies and procedures for financial management and
procurement to be followed by the Secretariat in coordinating implementation of the program as a whole.
Separate sections have then been set aside to describe the procedures required by particular donors, with
a special section for the World Bank. The manual covers not only the financial management and
procurement procedures required by the Banks fiduciary regulations, but also the appraisal procedures,
thresholds, guidelines, criteria, and forms, as well as contractual and supervision procedures to be used in
the implementation of the Community and Civil Society Initiatives component --- the component with the
largest financial allocation, and the largest number of participating institutions, under the project. The
Operations Manual will include (and be consistent with) overlapping sections of the Administrative
Manual, and the Financial Systems Manual (mentioned above). The draft Operations Manual will be the
focus for an extended process of consultation and review within the Secretariat, the CNCS Board, the
donors, and the larger NGOs who will be called on to follow the procedures. A final version of the
manual, satisfactory to the Bank, will be ready prior to Grant effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project is a Sector Investment Loan under the Second Multi-Country HLV/AIDS Program
(MAP II) approved for the Africa Region on February 7, 2002. The background and rationale for the
MAP II have been set out in Report P 7497 of December 20, 2001.
The project will follow the design criteria laid out in Mozambique's National Strategic Plan, which is
entirely consistent with the access criteria set out for the MAP II noted above. Implicit in the Plan are the
following tradeoffs:
- 19 -



Tareetina vs the Broadly Inclusive Approach:
The focus of advocacy and preventive measures will be in the three large transport corridors -- Maputo
(Maputo - Johannesburg axis), Beira (Beira - Harare and Beira - Blantyre axis) and Nampula (Nacala -
Blantyre axis), and will focus on high risk and vulnerable groups (truckers, sex workers, soldiers). The
targeted approach was favored over a more broad-based effort, due to the rapid rise in the infections in
the country, and the need to make more effective use of the meager resources available so far to the
campaign. There is a strong emphasis on building monitoring systems, to make sure that the funds are
being used as effectively as possible in addressing the various outcomes targeted by the program
(condom use, sexual behavior change, stigma reduction, orphan care). As the availability of resources
and the capability to utilize them effectively increases, additional attention will be provided to prevention
and awareness activities in those geographic areas with lower prevalence.
Multi- aeent and Multi - sector vs Government (Ministry of Health) led approach
The Ministry of Health initiated and led the campaign from 1989 through 1999. Despite its best efforts
at prevention and creating awareness, prevalence rates rose from 0 % to 12 %. By 1999 it was
recognized that a much broader approach was necessary if the campaign was to succeed, and the National
Strategic Plan was drafted and the broad based National AIDS Council was formed. Six months later
(mid 2000) the Executive Secretary to the Council was named, and the Secretariat formed. The
HIV/AIDS campaign now includes all players. The health services system is being strengthened to
respond to the demand and needs generated by the epidemic.
HAART and Supervision of Treatment: The Government has recently published its policy on public
support for treatment (Boletim da Republica, 4o Suplemento, December 18, 2001). The public sector
will focus on treating opportunistic diseases caused by the onset of AIDS. It will not provide free
anti-retroviral treatment to the public. Rather, it will train staff to monitor and supervise those who are
administering or taking self funded anti-retroviral treatments. This supervision would be charged for,
where the client has the ability to pay. In certain special cases -- (i) for health sector personnel who have
been infected with HIV on the job, and (ii) for the prevention of vertical transmission from mother to
child -- a pilot HAART program will be offered, and closely monitored as a learning experience for all
involved. This stance was taken due to the extreme scarcity of resources available in the health system --
and hence the impossibility of providing treatment on an equitable basis to the society -- and the need to
ensure that those that do take ARVs do so effectively, and do not contribute to the build up of resistance
to the few drugs available cheaply. Under this approach, funds for treatment mobilized and applied
outside the public sector will be effectively utilized -- and the effectiveness of the drugs will be
maintained. The project will follow Government policy. IDA will provide funding for anti-retrovirals,
for use in the above-mentioned special cases. An Italian NGO has already invested heavily in
strengthening the laboratory facilities in the Ministry of Health in Maputo, which are needed to provide
the tests for the surveillance of anti-retroviral use mentioned above. This NGO and will continue to
expand access to these testing and surveillance facilities in the center and north of the country . The
rapid decline in the cost of ART will make such treatment more attractive for a public sector
intervention. Supervision missions will monitor this situation and the development of Government
policy on this issue, with a view to adjusting the activities and funding available under the Project at the
time of the Mid Term review, as appropriate.
- 20-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned). The Bank has provided Credit No. 27880 for SDR 66.3 million in support of a
Health Sector Recovery Project (HSRP) which became effective in 1996. The program supports the
Mozambique national health strategy aimed at improving health status of the population through
improved coverage and use of health services. The IDA credit was designed as part of a Sector
Investment Program financed by a number of donors. The project has disbursed US$ 71.7 million (82%)
to date. The project closes on April 30, 2003. The program supports three main areas: (i) health
services delivery including: rehabilitation and equipment of rural health facilities, maintenance program;
pharmaceuticals and support to operational support for provincial operations; (ii) institutional
strengthening including: strengthening the supply and logistics systems; provincial management systems;
health management information system and program management and policy development; and (iii)
human resources development: to support manpower development through pre-service and in-service
training. Most planned activities are complete with varying levels of success. The most successful
elements of the project were pre-service training and the rehabilitation of a significant number of
facilities - though most of them suffered start-up delays. The project also made an important
contribution to the development of the new health policy and plan. Some key activities such as
provincial management systems and the health management information system were later financed by
other agencies. Two areas, namely, operational support for provincial operations and in-service training
were not undertaken due to capacity weakness and failure to identify a suitable system for implementing
the activities.
Impact assessment of the IDA credit is measured by looking at overall achievements in the health
status of the population. During the period of this operation, improvements have been recorded in key
health status indicators such as a reduction in the infant and child mortality rates. Output indicators also
show improvements in immunization coverage. However, the overall sector program objective of
increasing the proportion of the population using modem health services has not changed during this
period - remaining at 40%. More importantly, any gains in health status achieved in the last few years
are at risk of being reversed due to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
A number of lessons can be drawn from the experience with the HSRP that are relevant to
scaling up the response to HIV/AIDS in Mozambique:
*   Mozambique still faces a major challenge to ensure access to health services especially for the poor
and rural populations. This challenge has been increased by the demands on the health care system
arising from the HlV/AIDS epidemic. A significant part of the national response to the epidemic
depends on a strong health care system to provide services for prevention and treatment related to
HIV/AIDS. Among the needs are: strengthening skills of health workers especially for services
related to HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment , training and recruiting health workers to
compensate for high attrition rate among health workers (partly due to the epidemic); drugs and
medical supplies (testing, sexually transmitted diseases, opportunistic infections including
tuberculosis); condoms and continued awareness raising for behavior change.
* Institutional capacity is still a major constraint to implementation at both central and decentralized
levels. Practical solutions to this central problem are needed. These include contracting out services
and obtaining technical assistance where Government capacity is weak.
*   There is need to reduce transaction costs for the Government by harmonizing procedures as was done
for pharmaceuticals procurement and for management of the large civil works through the GACOPI
project management unit (which was financed by IDA but covered other donor-financed
rehabilitation of the program).
*   It is important to pay attention to advance planning and arrangements for procurement (all stages:
-21 -



identifying needs, carrying out the tender and distribution), to ensure that the project funded
commodities are available when needed.
* There is need to strengthen the financial management system and strengthen staff skills especially at
the provincial level, given the expected level of decentralized implementation.
* The Government needs to ensure that adequate counterpart funds are provided in a timely fashion.
* IDA support for MOH HIV/AIDS activities can play a critical role in catalyzing other agency
support, particularly by assisting the Government to define transparent implementation
arrangements.
In addition, the Bank provided an Institutional Development Facility grant of US$ 270,000 to the
Secretariat in 2000 (the year it was established) to assist it with startup activities. This grant has been
fully utilized in the design of a HIV/AIDS communications program to be provided using local and
community radio. Design was successfully completed. The program is under implementation with
funding from DFID.
Donors who have been heavily involved in Health have been more likely to contribute to the HIV/AIDS
program. Most of the donors listed below have strong programs in support of health service delivery,
and HIV/AIDS related activities, but not necessarily through the Government. NGOs are heavily
involved in implementing Donor funded HIV/AIDS action plans.
Latest Supervision
C      Sector Issue                    Project                (PSR) Ratings
._______________________________  _________________________  (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Health, Nutrition and Population  Health Sector Recovery Project  S           S
HIV/AIDS                         Institutional Development Fund  S            S
Grant of Sept 2000
Other development agencies
UNFPA                            Program support and condoms
supplies
UNICEF                           Adolescent awareness, health
friendly health services, home
based care, orphan care
EU                               Program support and condom
marketing, health sector
support
DFID                             Program support, condom
supply and distribution
USAID and CDC                    Program support, NGO based
targeting high risk groups and
hot spot regions, M&E design
WHO                              Surveillance support,
assistance in combatting HIV,
STD and other infectious
diseases
Norway                           Program support, Health sector
support,
Netherlands                      Program support, health sector
- 22 -



support
Germany                          Program support, health sector
support
Denmark                          Program support, health sector
support
Italy                            Program support, specialized
lab equipment
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This project will incorporate in its design the lessons learned in the course of designing and supervising
implementation of the eleven projects which have been approved under Multicountry HIV/AIDS
Programs I and 2. The main lessons learned are set forth in pages 11-13 of the MAP 2 Report P 7497
AFR and are summarized below. These lessons were taken into consideration during project project
preparation, and incorporated into project design where appropriate.
*   The MAP projects were designed and launched too rapidly to build effective implementation
mechanisms -- and momentum slowed after launch. It is important that: (i) operation manuals and
first year implementation plans be completed, following a participatory process involving all
stakeholders; (ii) pilot activities be tested prior to launch under PPF or PHRD funding; (iii) program
targets be defined quarterly for the first year; (iv) mechanisms be put in place to keep civil society
advocates involved during implementation; (v) extensive technical assistance be provided to NGOs
and CBOs to improve the absorptive capacity of civil society, and (vi) the role of the Ministry of
Health be re-asserted in the definition of medical policy, and the procurement of medical supplies.
*   Eligibility criteria for access to MAP funds were appropriate, but more emphasis should be placed
on Government adopting "exceptional" implementation arrangements -- including wide scale
contracting out in those areas where a country lacks capacity, but needs immediate and effective
results.
*   Program implementation is more successful in countries where the national AIDS council has
defined its role as "facilitation" and "coordination" rather than as "control" and "implementation". It
is important that the secretariat to the Council lead and coordinate from a position of competence,
with mechanisms for monitoring performance and providing accountability to civil society and the
campaign participants as a whole. The formation of a Civil Society Review Board is a potential
mechanism for creating this accountability -- if necessary.
*   Priority to fiduciary mechanisms (financial management, accounting, procurement, review and
approval procedures) should not detract from attention to monitoring of program implementation and
evaluation of program impact. Design of such systems, and even execution can be contracted in as
needed so that they do not lag behind the implementation process.
*   Priority should be given to the 'software' side of the program -- giving attention to getting the right
people for the task, and paying them and motivating them appropriately. Procurement of the
'hardware' - buildings and equipment -- can then follow its normal course without affecting the
startup of activities.
*   Mozambique can learn from "best practices" developed both in country, regionally and
internationally. Resources should be channelled to creating Technical Theme Groups at all three
levels, to connect into and leam from external experiences. In addition, the monitoring and
evaluation system to be established for Mozambique should be pressed to provide assessments and
- 23 -



guidance on the successes and failures of the national program.
*   Commitment from public sector Ministries and agencies to the program can be hastened and
deepened by undertaking an assessment of the impact of the disease on agency staff and their
families, and on agency capacity for service delivery, in light of an accellerating loss of experienced
staff, and the high cost of finding and training up replacement staff.
*   The practice of carrying out a social assessment, by program and geographic area, can help civil
society institutions ensure that their activities are relevant to social needs and can generate
stakeholder commitment.
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
The Mozambique program meets the access criteria agreed to for MAP2 as laid out in page 15 and 16 of
the Appraisal Report (No. P 7497 AFR) for the Multi-country HIV/AIDS Programn for Africa, as follows:
*   Evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS -- the country has been pursuing a national strategy
since 1988. Initially health sector oriented, a new National Strategic Plan was approved in 2000 --
making the campaign truly multisectoral, broadening the number of institutions involved and
increasing civil society involvement in prevention, care and treatment.
*   Establishment of a high level HIV/AIDS coordinating body -- this was accomplished in May 2000
with the nomination of the National Council to Combat HIV/AIDS -- headed by the Prime Minister,
and including key Ministers, NGOs and members of society.
*   Agreement to use exceptional implementation arrangements -- the Secretariat, a Governmerit
institution, has been set up in the year 2000 (two years prior to Bank involvement) under exceptional
administrative conditions, which has permitted the design of its own, purpose made financial
management, accouting, auditing, procurement and personnel management procedures. Staff are
brought in on contract at market salaries, and competent international firms are brought in to design
operating systems and training programs. The ongoing discussion on what functions will be
contracted in, vs being developed in house, is an open dialogue (deepened by the recent Institutional
Assessment, which provided concrete proposals for contracting out, vs technical assistance to build
own capacity) based on effectiveness in achieving program goals.
*   Agreement to use and fund multiple implementation agencies -- this issue is being dealt with on a
case by case basis. For example, the Ministry of Health has agreed to continue its current practice of
contracting with NGOs, many of them foreign, to open and run Voluntary Counselling and Testing
services in Government Hospitals under Ministry supervision. Also, the CNCS Secretariat intends to
contract the operation of the private sector subproject grant facility to a management agent. Under
the Community and Civil Society Initiatives component, the CNCS Secretariat will contract
Facilitating Agents to provide training and technical assistance to CBOs, NGOs, FBOs in subproject
preparation and supervision and implementation support. In another example, the Secretariat to the
National Council (using donor funding) has contracted out the design of its own financial
management and accounting system, as well as the financial management system for donor funds, to
two international consulting firms. Management of portions of these systems is likely to be
contracted in. Similarly, the design of the program database has been contracted out.
Government financial commitment to the program is reasonable. The Ministry of Finance and Planning
has allocated US$ 3 million a year out of its recurrent budget (funded from its own scarce resources) to
- 24-



kickstart the program. These funds have been used to establish the Secretariat to the National Council
and initiate coordination activities. Health had expenditure levels of around US$ 50 million out of the
recurrent Budget in the late 1990s, which increased to levels of around US$ 73 million in the year 2000,
following HIPC approval. One source of this funding is the HIPC Debt Relief program -- where funds
released from having to service the country's debt, are used to fund social programs in health and
education. Substantial additional recurrent resources should be allocated to the HIV/AIDS program in
future years if an impact is to be made in containing the pandemic dealing with its effects.
Government's political commitment is strong. The Prime Minister, a medical doctor, is a strong
supporter of the campaign, and the President of the National Council to Combat AIDS (CNCS). He has
been active in the IPAA meetings and spoke at the UN General Assembly Special Session on HIV/AIDS
in June 2001. The President mentions the pandemic in every political speech. The Secretariat to the
CNCS is headed by a figure of national stature. All of the Government Ministers endorse the campaign,
but there is much variation in actual efforts on the ground to adjust personnel policies and reduce stigma
inside their organizations, and to include HIV/AIDS topics and actions in agency programs. At the
provincial levels, Government has paid keen attention to the campaign,and there are signs of advocacy in
all the capitals. This awareness should now be carried down to the district.
Commitment by the civil society and the private sector is growing. There is increasing awareness and
advocacy across all of civil society institutions. All minibuses in the capital city carry large AIDS
awareness signs. Artists give free concerts, or auction off paintings to support the campaign. The private
sector has established an NGO (Empresarios Contra Sida) which is actively mobilizing resources and
engaging with business on an assessment of the impact of the disease on profitability, and measures to be
taken to reduce its impact. The Chamber of Commerce has developed its own action plan.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The rationale for World Bank involvement includes:
*   The World Bank can add substantially to the resources available to support a broad multi-agent,
multi-sectoral program -- particularly in an environment in which the Government is committed to
increasing service delivery, outreach and advocacy through a multiplicity of institutions and
agencies.
*   The Bank can bring to bear its broad experience in funding HIV/AIDS campaigns around the world,
including in Portuguese speaking countries such as Brasil and Cabo Verde, where specific media and
communications materials, assessments and operational manuals and expertise can be identified for
Mozambican use.
*   The Bank has much experience in the mechanics of such national programs, particularly in dealing
with financial and procurement issues affecting Government agencies and communities. This
experience, translated into operational guidelines and manuals, can help Mozambique structure its
own institutions to manage the campaign and deliver the services.
*   The Bank has access to a broad range of international contacts which (when combined with the
networks offered by the UN system and UNAIDS in particular) will enable Mozambique to visit -- be
aware of -- and consult with -- those national programs which have been most effective, and which
have the closest similarity and applicability to the Mozambican cultural, geographic and economic
situation.
* By virtue of its financial presence, its technical expertise, its multilateral ownership, its close links to
the key economic and social sectors in Government, and its global network, the World Bank can
- 25-



assist the Secretariat to the National Council to develop strategic positions and overcome
coordination problems -- to the benefit of the campaign.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The "Economic Analysis of HIV/AIDS" contained in Annex 5 of Report No. 20727 AFR of August 14,
2000 (the document which rnade the case for the first Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa
Region) provides the theoretical framework and the economic justification for the IDA's support for the
HIV/AIDS program in Mozambique.
In addition, the Bank has sponsored the preparation of a detailed paper which looks into the impact of the
epidemic in Mozambique. The paper titled "HIV/AIDS and Macroeconomic Prospects for Mozambique:
An Initial Assessment" was released in mid 2001. This section is drawn from the paper.
An attempt has been made in the above paper to quantify the effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic on key
economic variables over the next 10 years, using a recursive computable general equilibrium approach
with adaptive expectations. The analysis also helps identify the channels through which this impact will
occur. Particular attention is paid to projecting implications for human capital accumulation. Policy
options for blunting the major negative impact channels are then considered.
Due to the long time lags between infection and onset of AIDS, the AIDS case projections to 2010 are,
barring rapid advance in medical technologies, essentially programmed into the system, since nearly all
of the people projected to die in this decade, including the latter parts, are already HfIV positive. The
analysis indicates that these impending AIDS cases and deaths could have large economic impacts.
Projecting to 2010, per capita GDP growth rates are between 0.3 % and 1.0% lower than in a fictional
no-AIDS scenario. GDP per capita has grown an average of 6.4 percent per annum between 1995 and
2002. With GDP per capita in 2002 estimated at about US$ 210, and some 17 million inhabitants, the
average annual value of the economic loss is equivalent to between US $ 11 mnillion and US$ 37 million
in 2002, rising gradually as the population and GDP increase. The major sources of this slowdown in
growth are (1) reduced productivity growth, (2) reduced population growth and human capital
accumulation, and (3) reduced physical capital accumulation. All three of these effects are significant
though the productivity effect is the strongest. In addition, impacts on school enrollments are potentially
very large with implications for growth rates in the latter part of this decade and beyond.
Due to a variety of knowledge gaps, a high degree of uncertainty must be associated with these results.
However, if AIDS indeed reduces per capita economic growth for extended periods of time as the
analysis suggests, then initiatives that effectively combat AIDS will pay handsomely in purely economic
terms. Given the nearly decade long time lags between infection and death, policy actions can be divided
into two categories: (1) reactive policies to face the ramifications of the pandemic in the current decade
and (2) preventive policies designed to reduce HIV/AIDS prevalence in future decades.
Under reactive policies, education policy was explicitly considered. The scenario which analyses the
implications of taking extra efforts in education, looks at the impact on GDP which would result from a
strong effort to maintain school enrollment rates, graduation rates, and educational quality. The effect of
such policies results in a 0.6% increment to GDP growth by 2010, relative to the base scenario (with
- 26-



AIDS). This increment is due to the enhanced productivity of a more skilled workforce. This increment
is likely to persist well into the future due to much larger school enrollments in 2010. Assuming this
increment persists to 2020, net present value calculations justify very large incremental education
expenditure focussed on those aspects noted above (more than 5% of GDP per year from 2002 to 2010)
with linear phase out over the following three years.
Similarly, prevention is a worthwhile investment, even though its economic effects are only seen eight
years down the line. If successful preventive policies substantially reduce AIDS deaths in the next
decade -- and have an incremental effect on growth of 0.3% per annum between 2010 and 2020, the
lower end of the potential AIDS impact on per capita income, this outcome would justify large
expenditures on prevention -- in the order of 3% of GDP per annum between 2002 and 2007, with a
linear phase out over the subsequent three years.
Some kinds of ARV treatment are also considered to be economically justified, in certain circumstances.
The question of when it makes social and economic sense to initiate broader ARV treatment should
continue to be investigated, as prices for generic ARV clrugs decline.
The lesson from these numbers is only partially that large quantities of resources should be allocated to
education and prevention of HIV infection. The lesson is also that these activities have to be effective to
be justified. Given the extent of the payoff, imaginative initiatives, even if they are costly, should be
considered if they can be shown to work.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial and Fiscal Impact
The financial and fiscal impact of the Bank project itself is likely to be small. Total project funded
recurrent and investment expenditure of about US$ 10 million a year is small when compared to the
Government's total budgetary expenditure of US$ 1 billion a year, or to the health budget of US$ 143
million. Additional operating costs generated by the IDA project of around US$ 3 million a year will be
met by Government, which is currently providing this amount to the AIDS campaign from its own
resources. The issue of availability of counterpart funding has been flagged with Government, and there
is a commitment to provide timely and adequate funding from local resources. Cost effectiveness of the
various measures supported under the program will be evaluated over the course of project
implementation, drawing on the monitoring and evaluation data collected from around the country.
However, the financial and fiscal impact of the disease is likely to be large, for many reasons. Firstly,
the burden of caring for people who develop AIDS is large, and will increase rapidly. It was estimated
that some 1.2 million people were HIV positive in 2000. In 2003, it is estimated that over 100,000 new
AIDS cases will develop. At a treatment cost per patient year of around US$ 200 (the low estimate,
which does not include anti-retroviral treatment) and assuming that only 50% of these new AIDS cases
are treated by the Government health service (the only health care system with significant coverage
outside of Maputo), the demand for treatment will require an additional $20 million in health
expenditure. This is 14 % of the recurrent health budget. The incremental requirement will be larger
every year. Secondly, the cost of fighting the spread of the epidemic will rise. The HIV/AIDS program
is currently deeply underfunded. The total budgetary allocation for HIV/AIDS for 2002 is only $ 8.5
million (to which the Government's contributes own resources of US$ 3 million). The cost of the
HIV/AIDS campaign has been budgeted at about US$ 80 million a year, for the period 2001 - 2003. This
estimate, at about US$ 4.5 per capita, corresponds to data from international assessments of funding
- 27 -



needs in countries with prevalence rates in the order of 12%. And thirdly, the burden of the disease on
the educational system and the quality of the labor force is likely to slow economic growth, reducing tax
revenues. As noted in the economic analysis above, if the spread of the disease is not contained, total
GDP in ten years time could be up to 23% less than it would otherwise have been. As the economic
assessment notes, the Government would be justified in spending up to 3% of GDP per annum, in trying
to contain the spread of the epidemic. This is in the order of US$ 90 million a year -- about 10 times the
current budgetary allocation.
The Bank should engage with Government and donors on ways to increase allocations to prevention and
care, due to their human and economic impact. Continued attention should be paid to investing in the
capacity to monitor the use of ARVs and in analysing the cost effectiveness of broadening public
financing for ARVs, beyond the limitations of current policy.
Fiscal Impact:
See above
3. Technical:
The project will support the technical approach set out in its National Strategy to Combat HIV/AIDS and
STDs, approved in late 1999. The national strategy, which was developed in close consultation with
international specialists, including those from WHO, UNAIDS and UNICEF, and follows the best
practice as understood in 1999. The strategy is reviewed and updated every year as information is
gathered from the experience in Mozambique and elsewhere, through networks fostered by UNAIDS and
other organizations. The objectives and priorities include: (i) reduce HIV transmission through
promotion of safe sex practices among the population at high risk of infection, estimated at some 1.6
million persons who include: young women, youth, sex workers and their clients, teachers, and highly
mobile populations such as truckers; (ii) reduce the impact on PLWHA (some 1.2 million people in
2000) and orphans (60,000); and (iii) focus activities on the transport corridors. There is no central
vetting of approaches or messages, and each institution has developed its own approach to prevention and
care. Prevention techniques include: promotion of condom use, sexual education and delay of sexual
debut; IEC (including theatre, video and drama); STD control and treatment, voluntary testing and
counselling; youth friendly health services, increasing the negotiating power of women and girls, and
mobilizing communities. The strategy also focuses on reducing impact, where techniques include:
voluntary counselling and testing, promotion of condom use, treatment of opportunistic infections,
home based care, vocational training, and development of income generating activities for affected
families.
The project would support a strengthened monitoring and evaluation system which would permit learning
from experience, and the adjustment of new programs to the lessons learned. The network of sites
collecting epidemiological information on prevalence has tripled in size since 1995, permitting a more
accurate assessment of the progress and impact of the disease.
The AIDS campaign has been underway for more than 10 years, and there is a rapidly growing cadre of
professional staff leading the activities. International assistance has also increased rapidly in recent
years. The entry of a series of large, well organized health oriented NGOs with broad international
experience has helped keep the country on the technological frontier. Contributors to this phenomenon
include PSI which is leading in sexual education and condom distribution, MSF which leads in the
extension of the network of voluntary counselling and testing centers, and Comunita Sant'Egidio which is
leading in the setup of the monitoring and supervision capabilities needed to support an increase in the
use of anti retrovirals.
- 28 -



4. Institutional:
The institutional framework for carrying forwards a broad multisectoral campaign, supported by all
segments of society, is set forth in the National Strategy to Combat HIV/AIDS and STDs, approved in
1999. The elements of this framework are set forth below. The project would be nianaged within this
national framework.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Secretariat to the National AIDS Council.
The lead agency for the national AIDS campaign, and for the Bank project, will be the Secretariat to the
National Aids Council. Established in May 2000, the Secretariat is led by the Executive Secretary to the
National AIDS Council. The Secretariat is small, and is designed to carry out a coordination, resource
mobilization, allocation and monitoring function. It is lightly staffed, with an Executive Secretary and 7
professional level staff in the National Office in Maputo. In addition, it maintains 10 provincial offices,
each with a professional level Provincial Coordinator, and two support staff.
To date, the funding program administered by the Secretariat is quite small. Efforts to date have been
spent in designing and putting in place the systems necessary to provide the fiduciary guarantees and
implementation efficiency which donors require prior to providing programmatic funds. It is expected
that program funding will increase markedly once the Secretariat has demonstrated it has the capability to
coordinate such a program effectively. An Institutional Assessment of the Secretariat, funded by the
Irish Government has made the case for strengthening capacity at both national and provincial levels.
Under the proposal (recently approved by the National AIDS Council) the Secretariat would add a
Deputy Executive Secretary, to deal with the managerial and implementation aspects of the program,
freeing up the Executive Secretary for higher level advocacy and representational functions. The
Secretariat would be divided into 4 departments, to cover the administrative, financial management,
program coordination and monitoring and evaluation fimctions. At the provincial level, additional
financial management staff have been approved.
In addition, the proposal includes provision for contracting in a "supervision and technical assistance"
agent -- which would provide strong guidance and build capacity in problem solving on financial,
administrative and operational issues.
The Secretariat itself is funded directly by the national budget, from own resources. Donors (in
particular USAID) are currently providing substantial assistance to the Secretariat, supporting it in the
design of (i) a financial system for the program; (ii) a common pooling mechanism for channeling donor
funds to community projects and activist institutions; (iii) a database which will capture information on
all the HIV/AIDS related programs underway in the country; (iv) a monitoring and evaluation system,
designed to track implementation and enable learning from ongoing programs. Future support is planned
under this project, and from the UNDP, to enable the Secretariat to develop its own administrative
systems, and develop administrative and programmatic capacity in its own staff.
Under the project, the Secretariat will be charged with: (i) preparing and submitting the annual program
and budget for HIV/AIDS activities to the Ministry of Finance and the Donors, including the Bank, (ii)
channelling Government, Bank and Donor funds to HIlV/AIDS programs (excluding Government
Ministries, which will be funded directly from the Ministry of Finance); (iii) monitoring program
execution, to ensure compliance with program objectives and fiduciary procedures;
- 29-



The Ministry of Health
The Ministry of Health will be charged with implementation of the component on Strengthening and
Scaling Up Health Sector Services for HIVIAIDS. As noted in section B 2, the ministry operates a
network of 4 central hospitals, 12 provincial hospitals, 25 rural hospitals, 276 health centers and 736
-health posts, providing access to the public health service to about 50% of the population. The Ministry
of Health, with a budget of $ 143 million per annum is supported by a large consortium of donors,
including the World Bank (Credit No. 27880 Approved in November 1995). The recent Health Sector
Strategy document sets the stage for reform and a renewed partnership with the donors under the Sector
Wide Approach, providing for agreement on joint review, reporting and procurement procedures, and
increasingly, the pooling of donor funds in support of program needs. The Ministry has a Project
Coordination Unit (GACOPI) which has developed expertise in managing large scale projects, procuring
under international competitive conditions, and dealing with the disbursement and financial reporting
procedures required by various multilateral and bilateral donors. The proposed Health component under
the HIV/AIDS Response project would take advantage of this expertise.
The Ministry of Health was the agency in the country which conceptualized and initiated the HIV/AIDS
campaign in the late 1980s, and led the campaign until 2000, when the leadership was broadened to
become multisectoral. A strong epidemiological surveillance function has been developed within the
Ministry to monitor the epidemic. Within the Ministry, leadership in the implementation of this
component would be provided by the Minister and the Advisory Council. The Directorate of Planning
and Cooperation (DPC) will provide overall coordination. The National Directorate of Health will take
responsibility for technical implementation. Key specialized departments such as pharmaceuticals
administration, human resources would support the project as needed.
The Ministry of Health would be in charge of all epidemiological surveillance, through the 20 centers
established in 2000, as well as for the assessment of behavior change and impact of the program.
NGOs. CBOs and Private Sector
Mozambique has a large number of NGOs and civil society organizations. Many have responded to calls
for action in the HIV/AIDS campaign. However, with few exceptions, local NGOs are extremely short
of funds and assets. They have contributed under the campaign by reaching out to the communities they
serve. However, they are dependant on resources, materials, ideas and initiatives from the larger
institutions, local or international. Many lack the capacity to manage additional funds. Only a few of
locally 'owned' and managed NGOs, such the Foundation for the Development of the Community (FDC),
the Mozambican Red Cross (CVRM) or MONASO have the capability to act in more than one province.
The strongest NGOs, and those capable of raising resources and rapidly increasing their outreach and
impact, are those with international affiliations such as CARE, Medecines Sans Frontieres, Population
Services International, ADPP and Save the Children. Two of these organizations, MSF and PSI have
started to provide Voluntary Counselling and Testing service, in collaboration with the Ministry of
Health. Over the past two years, the number of VCTs has expanded from 1 to 27 -- most of them opened
by international NGOs in public health facilities.
The private sector has also been organizing itself to respond to the epidemic. Many large enterprises, led
by MOZAL, the internationally owned aluminium smelter in a suburb of Maputo, and Coca Cola, have
initiated prevention and awareness programs. An NGO composed of commercial enterprises was
recently formed. Called "Empresarios Contra SIDA", it is actively engaged in assessing the impact of
AIDS on local firms, and investigating ways of instituting prevention, care and possibly treatment
programs. The project would seek to work through this NGO in reaching out to the private sector.
- 30 -



The project would seek to work with and through NGOs in two fundamental ways. Firstly, in reaching
out to those affected by the epidemic, the project would seek to carry a broad range of prevention and
care activities out to urban and rural communities, with a decentralized effort to fund programs executed
by community based organizations and NGOs. In line with experience in other HIV/AIDS programs, the
project would seek to build capacity in select NGOs to act as intermediaries between community based
organizations, and the Government offices where the funding is made available. In each of the 10
provinces, select NGOs would have their financial and administrative systems and knowledge base
strengthened by the project to enable them to, in turn, improve the management and reporting capabilities
of the associations and groups who implement the projects. Criteria have been developed (in the
Operational Manual) to select these intermediary NGOs. Further support would be contingent on
performance. Similarly, implementing NGOs and CBOs would be chosen based on criteria that reflected
experience in working with target groups, credibility and respect commanded within the community,
commitment to the HIV/AIDS campaign, desire to work, and ability to manage money and report.
Management ability would be something that would be developed in the selected candidates. Proposals
would be assigned on a competitive basis, according to the quarterly allocations of funds defined in the
budget cycle. A decentralized system of Province-managed preparation, assessment, approval and
supervision would be developed for projects which came under an annual expenditure ceiling ( $ 20,000).
The details of how this system would operate are specified in the Operations Manual (to be finalized by
Grant effectiveness). The system described above would be tested in pilot projects in two provinces
using funds from the IDA PPF facility over the next few months. Subsequent versions of the Operations
Manual would be adjusted to reflect the lessons learned from the above mentioned pilot projects.
Secondly, the project would fund the activities of the larger NGOs, many of them intemational
organizations, engaged in expanding health services, and providing guidance on care and treatment to
families. Under this type of arrangement, contracts could be entered into with NGOs, selected under a
transparent bidding and evaluation process, which could provide funding for activities on a province by
province basis. A contribution towards NGO overheads would be provided (up to 20% of the Subproject
cost). While funding would be provided by the Secretariat from the community initiatives fund, the
Ministry of Health would be party to the contract and would provide support, physical facilities and
monitoring of implementation. The methods to be used for selection, contracting, reporting, and
evaluation will be developed under a consultancy funded under the PPF, and be recorded in the
Operations Manual.
4.2 Project management:
The project would be managed by the Executive Secretariat to the National AIDS Council. Policy
guidance and accountability would be provided by the National AIDS Council, a multi-stakeholder body
chaired by the Prime Minister. The Bank project is being designed to support, and be an integral part of,
the national AIDS program. As the Executive Secretariat has to be small, flexible and proactive, and has
to become very effective in a short period of time, the Government has authorized extraordinary
administrative and financial measures in its design. Personnel are contracted in at market salaries. The
Government has been using donor funds to design an institution-specific accounting and financial
management system, which will be capable of reporting under Government's new financial management
framework, as well as respond to the fiduciary needs of the donors and the Bank. Similarly, program
specific monitoring and evaluation systems are being designed, and a national database of AIDS related
activities built up to enable the constant monitoring of the program (as described above in Section 4.1).
The Executive Secretariat has a presence in each province, and is committed to the idea of building a
decentralized decision-making apparatus for program implementation. The details of how this will
function in the review, approval and supervision of sub-project funding proposals, has been specified in
the Operations Manual, and will be adjusted as necessary following implementation of the pilot projects.
- 31 -



As mentionedaviously, management of the Health component would be delegated to the Ministry of
Health - whicn nas developed the ability to manage donor programs on a national scale. Its project
management unit, GACOPI, would be brought in to facilitate financial management, procurement and
disbursement not only for Health, but also for any large-scale intemational procurement needed in the
other components of the Bank project.
Operations Manual and Proiect Implementation Manual
The CNCS and the Bank have collaborated in the preparation of a draft of the Operations Manual for the
program. It will be reviewed, following the conclusion of the pilot projects to be funded under the PPF,
to incorporate the lessons learned under those experiences. The manual has three sections. The first
section sets out the overall institutional, regulatory and financial framework for the program, and
clarifies the roles and procedures of the different actors. The second section, discussed and negotiated
with all stakeholders and donors, provides guidelines on the overall fiduciary and operational procedures
to be used by all stakeholders under implementation. Thus, it covers general implementation features
which will be applicable to all programs, on issues related to financial management, accounting and
auditing standards, procurement guidelines, and monitoring and reporting requirements. The
implementation of the Community and Civil Society Initiatives component -- which should be common
across all donors -- is detailed in this section. This second section of the manual also includes guidelines
on implementation, covering the description of processes and procedures for management of program
activities under each of the components. The third section of the manual describes in detail the
fiduciary, financial, procurement and monitoring obligations which apply to the funds to be used from
each source. A section here is devoted to those which apply in particular to the World Bank, detailing the
Bank's involvement in the HIV/AIDS program, setting out financial and procurement plans, and the
processes and procedures to be followed in the administration of Bank project funds. A Project
Implementation Plan has been completed, which sets out the propose implementation sequence, and
provides a procurement and disbursement plan.
It is the intention of the Government and the donor community to negotiate only one set of financial,
procurement and monitoring procedures, which would be used in responding to the reporting
requirements of all donors -- as has been accomplished under the Agriculture and Education SWAPs.
Negotiations with other donors are underway in an attempt to reach agreement on a set of procedures and
financing principles common to all financial sources (including Government). These discussions are
likely to extend into the first year of implementation of the Bank funded project. Such agreements have
been reached in the Agriculture Sector Expenditure Program in Mozambique (Proagri) which is being
used as a model in an attempt to reach consensus on HIV/AIDS. In the cases where the multiparty
negotiations yield an outcome where Bank procedures are not adequately covered, it will be necessary
for the Bank to ask for separate fiduciary considerations.
At the Mid Term review, to be completed by June 30, 2005, proposals for creating a common financing
facility for donor funding of Civil Society Initiatives should be assessed, and if found to be desireable
and feasible, measures will be taken to include such a facility in the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation and Mid Term Review
Monitoring and evaluation under the project comprises the following components: (i) overall M&E
system; (ii) surveillance; (iii) essential research; (iv) financial management; and (v) program activity
monitoring.
- 32 -



The overall M&E system consists of a guiding flowchart and data base, to ensure that all M&E
information flows logically to a single, national repository. Mozambique's nascent Country Response
Information System (CRIS) provides an excellent basis for the development of an overall M&E system.
Surveillance consists of biological and behavioural surveillance. Mozambique has rapidly expanding
biological surveillance and is committed to increasing behavioural surveillance, to ensure full second
generation surveillance. MAP will support biological and behavioural surveillance as required and agreed
with stakeholders. Essential research is required to track FIIV and STI trends and to evaluate
STVHIV/AIDS prevention and care interventions among priority groups. The CNCS is currently
developing financial management systems, with technical support from major accounting firms. It is
recommended that CNCS delegate program activity monitoring to a consulting firm. The program
activity monitoring data generated may be captured as a sub-section of Mozambique's nascent Country
Response Information System (CRIS).
CNCS will coordinate the above monitoring and evaluation components as follows. Biological
surveillance will be managed by the MoH, drawing upon the STI/AIDS Unit and the Epidemiology Unit.
Behavioural surveillance will also be managed by the MoH, assisted by a university or research agency.
The second generation surveillance constituted by the biological and behavioural surveillance will enable
CNCS and partners to identify and interpret major epideniological trends. Essential research may be
coordinated by the MoH, assisted by universities and research institutions. As noted, CNCS is developing
financial management systems with technical support from accounting firms. It is suggested that program
activity monitoring be delegated to a consulting firm. Structured reporting and assessment forms and
procedures will be developed to ensure sound program activity monitoring. Financial and program
monitoring will generate verified primary data to inform internal and external supervision and to promote
results-based decision making.
The CNCS Secretariat will be responsible for establishing the framework for the monitoring and
evaluation activities. A draft monitoring manual and set of indicators of acceptable quality has already
been prepared, and is under discussion within Government and the Donor and NGO community. During
project implementation, each agency receiving support from the CNCS would sign a contract or
memorandum of understanding, which would specify its monitoring and reporting responsibilities.
Financial support would be contingent on receipt of progress reports and monitoring information. A
database which is to track implementation of all AIDS programs in the country has been established in
the CNCS with support from UNAIDS and the Centers for Disease Control, funded by the USAID.
Provincial CNCS offices will play a key role in receiving and verifying progress reports, and monitoring
implementation on the ground.
By June 30, 2005, the CNCS Secretariat should make use of the information gathered and the lessons
learned under the monitoring and evaluation activity to prepare a Mid Term review for consideration by
the Bank and the other donors supporting the AIDS campaign. The mid term review should be based on
a broad assessment of the outreach and impact on target beneficiaries of program activities, and include,
inter alia, suggestions on measures for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of project
implementation, simplification of processes and procedures where appropriate, and creating mechanisms
for wholesaling the outreach of HIV/AIDS programs around the country. Recommendations should be
made on ways in which the Bank, and its instruments, could be modified to improve the speed and
effectiveness of project implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The CNCS Secretariat would be charged with overseeing the procurement procedures used for the
program, and would hire a Procurement Officer for this task. Larger procurement packages, and any ICB,
- 33 -



which would originate from the need to purchase drugs and equipment under the Health component,
would be handled by the Project Management Unit (GACOPI) in the Ministry of Health. The GACOPI
already has significant experience in handling procurement according to Bank guidelines, as it handled
Bank-related financial management and procurement under the Bank funded Health Sector Recovery
Project Cr 27880. A significant portion of the grant will be used under the Community and Civil Society
Initiatives component, where procurement will be carried out by a broad set of NGOs and qualifying civil
society associations, using procedures approved by the Bank for use in such circumstances. Detailed
procurement thresholds are set out in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The development of the financial management systems for the project, and the need for their assessment
by the Bank at appraisal, have been described in Section C4. The CFAA for Mozambique classifies the
country as high risk. For this reason, particular attention will be paid to these aspects under this project.
However, the extraordinary measures in place for the Executive Secretariat will minimize the financial
risk faced in new Government institutions. The freedom to hire staff at market salaries has meant that it
has been able to attract high level talent to its management and financial positions. The freedom to
design its own financial system, tailored to its own institutional structure and activities, means it will be
more efficient and effective in managing and reporting on expenditure. This design of the new system
has been completed, and hardware and software installed. Staff have been hired, training has been
completed and the new system is now operational. The system will have the flexibility to report
according to the requirements of the Government, of the Bank, and indeed of any donor.
The procedures to be used in approving expenditure, particularly under the Community and Civil Society
Initiatives, have still to be tested. It has been designed and set out in the Operations Manual, and will be
tested under pilot projects funded under the PPF. Forms and procedures are included in the Operations
Manual.
There will eventually be three Special Accounts, one managed by the Secretariat to cover components II,
HI and V, and one in the Ministry of Health (which has already managed a Special Account in the
context of the Bank funded Health Sector Recovery Project) to cover component IV, and a second one in
the Secretariat to finance component I, the Community and Civil Society Initiatives. Systems and
procedures for the management of Special Accounts for this project have been designed, and will be
tested under the PPF funding program.
In addition, the Secretariat has invested considerable effort in the formulation of a pooling mechanism
for donor funding titled the Common Fund. Government proposes using this pooling mechanism to
consolidate all financial inflows, into one pool. A similar mechanism has been set up for the Agriculture
Sector program in Mozambique, and there is a desire to achieve the same level of consensus for the
HIV/AIDS program. Negotiations on design, and procedures are underway and are likely to extend into
2003. The Government and many donors feel that it would be appropriate if the Bank joined the
HIV/AIDS pooling mechanism, as it has under Proagri (the Agriculture Sector Expenditure Program - Cr
31710). The Bank will review the proposed pooling mechanism, and its fit with the requirements set out
in OP 10.02 and will put in place the steps necessary to enable it to eventually join the pooling facility.
Until that time, Bank funds will enter the Secretariat's financial system in separate, parallel flows, with
mechanisms set up to accommodate Bank procedures, designed to minimize disruption and to make use
of the Secretariat's standard accounting, reporting and auditing procedures. The desireability of entering
the pooling facility, and measures to enable the Civil Society Initiatives Facility to be managed in this
fashion should be addressed and decided on at the Mid Term review, to be completed by June 2005.
A key issue which has dogged the implementation of Bank projects in Mozambique has been the timely
- 34 -



availability of Counterpart Funds. To date, the Secretariat has not had any trouble in receiving its
allocation, on time, from the Ministry of Planning and Finance. However, the adjustment in the
financing percentages for foreign consultants (reduced to 86% for new Bank projects) will require a
special management effort on this front. This issue will receive close attention from supervision
missions. It is important that special attention be paid to this aspect of project implementation, and
flagged as soon as it becomes a problem.
Further details on the financial management system can be found in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Assessment
The most important environmental issue arising from this project relates to the management of medical
waste -- which may contaminate health workers, and others who may come in contact with it such as
municipal workers who handle collection and disposal, poor families whose income is derived from
collection and recycling of waste products, and the general public who may be exposed to contaminated
products if they are not safely contained and protected. An international consultant was employed in
June 2002 to work with stakeholders in the assessment of the situation, and the preparation of a health
care waste management plan. The assessment and the draft plan cover all waste products from the
Mozambican public health care system -- estimated at 2.2 tons per day -- and includes syringes, needles,
empty bottles for injection liquid, plastic objects (gloves, blood pockets, urine pots, tubes), cotton,
compresses, empty bags, and other human waste. The focus of the report is on the public health care
system, which provides all health care in rural areas, and the large majority of service in urban areas,
except for the small proportion of high income families able to afford private clinics.
Issues
Issues involved include: (i) the lack of efficient selection of health care waste; (ii) the carelessness of the
medical staff and their lack of training in management of health care waste; (iii) the staff dealing with
health care waste, including nurse's helpers, lack any type of qualification; (iv) the mingling of health
care waste with normal household litter; (v) there are insufficient quantities of pre collection baskets (for
needles, cotton, etc); (vi) there are insufficient containers for provisional litter stocks; (vii) their is a lack
of security equipment for staff responsible for cleaning of the hospitals, and for the collectors of waste;
(viii) there is no efficient treatment system in general use -- 90% of the hospitals dispose of their wastes
inside the hospital, 7% transport their wastes to a municipal landfill and 15% use incineration.
Stakeholders
Stakeholders include: Regulatorv Agents: Ministry of P'ublic Health and Ministry of Environment,
responsible for enviromnental and healthcare policy -- they generally have at their disposal competent
human resources, and master the management techniques, but their scope of action is a bit limited
because of lack of material and financial means to carry out their mission; Health care facilities : are the
principal HCW generators, but the healing staff has little concern for the daily management of the HCW,
which is considered a second priority besides the huge medical emergencies; Litter eatherers:
Municipalities are responsible for the gathering of household litter, but their landfills often receives
health care waste. Their help in the handling and cleaning is somewhat weak. The private sector
intervenes in the gathering of litter from some institutions, and even some healthcare facilities; but is not
yet motivated enough to get involved in the management of health care waste; NGOs: Many of whom
- 35-



intervene in the environmental and health field. They constitute an opportunity to be seized by the project
for partnership; Community Oraanizations: have the advantage of residing in the locality, and enjoy the
trust of local populations. Many of them are active in the environment and sanitary field; The scavengers
: the level of poverty (70% of the population overpassed the margin of monetary poverty) and the lack of
economic alternatives push the populations towards survival strategies, mainly in urban zones. In this
framework, informal scavenging or recycling activities at the level of littering disposals, are opportunities
for the poor to earn a living. With the health care waste, the sector of pre-collection is too lucrative, to
justify much interest; The Donors: most of them intervene in the field of health. Even if all of them
recognize the importance and the interest linked with HCW, and the necessity to lead actions in this way;
very few of them have specific programs for health care waste.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan has been developed in response to the assessment. The proposed
plan is costed at $ 2.5 million and consists of two components. The first, with a cost of about US$ 1.2
million, would strengthen the regulatory framework, increase capacity amongst health care and waste
workers, and increase public awareness about the dangers of this type of waste. The second component,
costed at $ 1.3 million, would provide improved equipment for collection and sorting of health care waste
in public health care facilities, as well as put in place modem incinerators for central and provincial
hospitals, as well as artisanal incinerators in rural hospitals, health centers and health posts
At issue here is the effectiveness of the incinerators, and their potentially harmful production of the
carcinogenic dioxin. This reconmmendation is under review, and the possibilities of alternate means of
disposing of waste are under consideration.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: September 13, 2002
A draft Environmental Assessment is available, and has been reviewed by the Government and the
project team. It was released for public perusal in Washington and Mozambique on September 30, 2002.
A summary of the assessment of knowledge, behavior and practices regarding health care waste
treatment, by stakeholder, is provided below:
Assessment of Knowledge, Beha ior and Practices
Categories of actors     Knowledge      Behavior      Practices
Health facilities        Medical staff         Fairly good  Fairly correct  Fairly good
staff
Paramedical staff      Inadequate      medium        mediurm
Help-nurses             Little      acceptable    acceptable
Cleaners               None        acceptable    acceptable
Collection services  Privates responsible for household  Not enough  acceptable  acceptable
staff                  litter                good
Collectors             None          Wrong          Bad
Population          Informal scavengers        None          Wrong          Bad
The neighboring populations,   None         Wrong           Bad
I__ __ _ __ _ _   children    _             _
The assessment also assessed the danger caused by exposure to risk of infection (with HIV/AIDS, Viral
Hepatitis or other maladies) from exposure to contaminated materials. This is summarized below:
- 36-



Risk of infection by the HIV/AIDS in the process of HCW production
Persons exposed and     Situation         Risks of       Category of
actors                          contamnination by     risk
EIIV/AIDS
Production        Medical staff       Carelessness   Wounds with sharp    Major
Ignorance of risks  and cutting objects
Mingling with
littering
Selection at the    Medical staff   Absence of selection  Accidents         Major
source                             (rmixing of all  Contamination of all
HCW)            sharp objects
Storage       Helpers and cleaners  Non protected   Wounds by sharp      Major
wastes            objects
Collection      Municipalities and   Mixing with    Wounds with sharp or  Major
transportation and  private societies  littering scavenging  cutting objects
evacuation          collectors
Means of collection  Wounds with sharp  Major
hardly adequate      objects
scavenging   I     _I
Elimination     Helpers and cleaners  No protection       Wounds          Major
Children populations  scavenging
nearby scavengers
The persons mainly exposed in the process of health care waste are: (i) the medical and paramedical
staff; (ii) the helpers and other cleaners, in charged of waste collection or incineration in the health
facilities; (iii) the waste collection agents of private clinics; (iv) the informal scavengers; and (v) the
general population living by the side of the landfills (mainly the children) or using recycled objects from
wastes. The risk linked with bad management of health care wastes is includes dangers from: (i)
accidental wounds, for health staffs; children playing (or satisfying natural needs on the littering
disposals) and unaware scavengers; and (ii) serious intoxication and infections, affecting the health staff
and collectors: (iii) noxious odors due to lack of equipment for protection.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The final Environmental Assessment and proposed Environmental Management Plan have been placed in
the Infoshop in Washington DC and in the Country Office in Mozambique for review by the public. The
health care waste management question goes beyond the purview of the proposed HIV/AIDS Response
project -- and commitments will be sought from other sources to cofinance this activity.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
enviromnent? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Environmental Management Plan includes a logical framework and a set of indicators.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Mozambique has little original research on the social impact of HIV/AIDS. However, Mozambique's
- 37 -



northern neighbour, Tanzania, has a region which was affected by HIV/AIDS early in the pandemic.
Studies of the social and economic impact of HIV/AIDS in Kagera, as documented in "Confronting
AIDS" -- a World Bank Publication - indicate that infection rates are no different across high and low
income households. However, low income households can be expected to suffer more from an AIDs
related death of an adult in prime income-earning age.
Covin
Studies in Kagera show that "... households use a variety of informal mechanisms to cope with
misfortunes like an adult death in the household... although these coping mechanisms cushion the impact
of the shock, households are not entirely successful in protecting their well-being. In general, the poorer
the household, the greater and more persistent the impact of a prime-age adult death from AIDS and
similar shocks. The study goes on to indicate that " ... To varying degrees, however, three coping
mechanisms observed in Africa-altering household composition, drawing down savings or selling
assets, and utilizing assistance from other households-are all likely to be attempted whenever
households confront the tragedy of a prime-age adult death... " Experience in Kagera indicates that
households are surprisingly resilient, in economic terms, in cushioning the impact of the death of one of
the parents.
Food for the children
However, as could be expected, poor families suffered more -- particularly with regard to food
consumption: " .... for the poorest 50 percent of the households: food expenditure, which was already
lower in these households than in the others, dropped by nearly a third. The resulting drop in per capita
food consumption was cushioned by an increase in the consumption of home-produced food (not shown).
Even so, per capita consumption in the poorer households fell by 15 percent. Even if these households
eventually return almost to the pre-death level of per capita food consumption, as did the Ivoirian
households, lack of adequate nutrition for a year or more can have a profound effect on the development
of children." The data show that orphans were indeed suffering more from stunting than those children
whose parents were alive -- but surprisingly -- the rate of stunting amongst orphans did not vary with the
income level of the household.
Schoolin2
One would also expect the death of a parent to have an impact on child schooling, due to the potential
effect of (i) reducing the ability of families to pay for schooling; (ii) raising the demand for children's
labor; or (iii) reducing the expected return to adults of investments in children's schooling. The data
however shows that ".... children in the poorer households are less likely to be enrolled than children in
the less-poor households, regardless of orphanhood. Also, the difference in orphan and nonorphan
enrollment rates is significant only among the poorer households. Most striking, however, are the low
enrollment rates of children ages 7 to 10 regardless of the level of household assets."
Poliey
These broad findings can be further distilled into three general recommendations for policymakers: (i)
not all households experiencing an AIDS death need assistance; (ii) if survivor assistance is to be offered,
it should be targeted to all very poor households that suffer a prime-age adult death, regardless of
whether the death was due to AIDS; (iii) assistance will do the most good immediately before and after
the adult death, during the period when per capita food consumption has fallen but not yet recovered. It
need not be permanent. The results of these studies suggest that antipoverty programs and mitigation
programs be integrated. When an antipoverty program is designed for a community with low living
standards, consideration should be given to including components that specifically address the needs of
the poorest households hit by AIDS deaths."
- 38 -



The Project
The Bank funded project incorporates these findings into its design. The approach is multi dimensional
and multisectoral. About half of the resources will be used to fund information, education and
communication programs to be carried out by a broad variety of large anid small NGOs and CBOs and
channeled directly to poor communities, both urban and rural, with priority to the high prevalence areas.
Experience in Uganda indicates that a society wide campaign, if well designed, sustained, and
accompanied by consistent messages and effective leadership from the elite, can have an effect on sexual
behavior, postponing sexual debut, reducing the number of partners, increasing fidelity, increasing
condom use, and hence reducing infection rates. This has strong positive social consequences.
Programs to be sponsored will also enable communities to develop a sense of "AIDS competence" and
build local institutions and mechanisms to de-stigmatize people living with HIV/AIDS, and to assist
families whose members are living with HIV, or have AIDS, or have to cope with the death of a parent.
Programs will also reach out to the private sector so that companies will begin to take measures to reduce
infection, particularly for vulnerable groups such as truckers and construction workers, and to care for
those who are sero-prevalent.
The other half of the project's resources will be devoted to making the public sector "AIDS competent"
-- enabling it to carry out its coordination and allocation role -- bringing to bear the educational capacity
of the large public networks such as the public education system itself, the public health system, the
agricultural extension system -- reducing the vulnerability, and the infection power, of high priority
groups such as soldiers and policemen and teachers -- making more effective use of the health care
system to operate voluntary counselling and testing centres, treat STDs, opportunistic diseases other
physical consequences of the disease, and, where public policy permits, oversee the administration of
anti-retrovirals.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The preparation of the National Strategic Plan in 1999 brought in a wide variety of people and
institutions from all walks of life, and all areas of the country. This has created broadbased acceptance
and agreement with the approach and goals of the Plan. There have been a large number of small,
somewhat disjointed initiatives, from a large number of separate institutions willing to try an approach,
or to develop a message, but unable to increase to scale for lack of resources. The project follows the
strategy as outlined in the plan. During the preparation of the project, the team participated in the annual
National consultation and assessment of the HIV/AIDS campaign, and there is broad awareness of the
Bank's involvement. The Bank's resources will enable this broad based involvement to be scaled up.
In the design of the project, the Government/Bank team has engaged formally with the National AIDS
Council, the NGOs (both international and local), the associations of People Living With HIV/AIDS, the
donors, the private sector, the media and social communication, and many of the Ministries. By
following the design and priorities in the National Strategic Plan, the project can complement and
support the momentum which is already being created. All players are aware of the opportunity which
the presence of the Bank offers, and appear willing to work with the CNCS to take advantage of it. The
key piece, which is still missing and is necessary for the campaign to really take off, (and which the Bank
project is unable to affect) is the presence of a dynamic and committed public figure of high stature, to
take on the Campaign, and give it the fire necessary to break down the cultural and social barriers it still
faces.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Project preparation has been a collaborative and consultative process, that builds on the process of
- 39 -



consultation which the Secretariat to the CNCS has been carrying out since its inception two years ago.
Within each Province, at the instigation of the Secretariat Coordinators, a Provincial Steering Committee
to Combat HIV/AIDS has been formed, headed by the Govemor, and including lead public, NGO and
private institutions in the Province. These committees are used as umbrellas to enable consultations to
take place on policy and strategy, and to carry out various programs.
The NGOs themselves have created an umbrella organization for HIV/AIDS activities called MONASO,
which is on the National AIDS Council and is party to all design meetings regarding NGOs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The CNCS Secretariat has designed a comprehensive monitoring system to track the implementation and
impact of the various activities to be funded. In addition, there are constant feedback mechanisms in
place via the provincial steering committees, the National AIDS council and political mechanisms which
enable NGOS and community representatives to have access to policy makers, and to the Secretariat.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Recent household surveys (in particular TIA the Integrated Agricultural Survey) have included a series of
questions which, while not asking whether the subject is sero-prevalent, do provide insights into whether
households have been affected by AIDS, and how they are coping with it. In addition, the National
Statistical Office has started to carry out less expensive, and hence more frequent, QUIBB and CWIQ
surveys of household welfare which will enable more frequent tracking of social indicators in the
country.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7 1 Are anv of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect9
b -. - ........Policy,, .       ,,        ........ ' -..,tTriggeeod- *-; 
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         0 Yes U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 436)                                   () Yes *_ No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    U Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                U Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 U Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        U Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 437)                             ( Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  U Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      U Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An Environmental Assessment (for hazardous medical waste) has been completed and an Environmental
Action Plan has been formulated. Both have been released to the public, and discussed with
Government. An effort will be made to contribute to the fulfillment of the Action Plan from the
resources from this project, as well as from resources mobilized from other donors.
- 40 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
In order to be sustainable and effective the following conditions should hold:
(i) the social and cultural environment will have to change in order to: (i) reduce the social stigma
associated with HIV/AIDS, (ii) increase the openness and freedom to talk freely about sexual behavior --
and the risks of promiscuity, and unprotected sex; and (iii) increase the power of women to deterrnine
their sexual choices and behaviour;
(ii) the legal and regulatory environment will have to be maintained, or improve, to avoid discrimination
against those who are HIV positive;
(iii) the management of the project (and the National BIV/AIDS program) will have to maintain and
continue to demonstrate its financial accountability and programatic integrity -- so that additional
resources can be mobilized from local and international sources in support of a centrally directed
campaign;
(iv) capacity building for local NGOs, CBOs and Private business will have to be successful -- as the
program will only be sustainable, and have an impact, if those few institutions receiving strengthening
and capacity building programs are in fact made more effective and aggressive -- and capable of
mobilizing resources on their own account. They in turn will then be able to go out to create
management capacity and implementation capability in community institutions -- which can then
mobilize resources from the communities themselves to sustain their activities;
(v) Government should sharply increase the local resources devoted to the campaign. Its reliance on
donor funding for upscaling seems to indicate that it is leaving the funding for this very high priority
battle to international financial agencies and donors; and
(vi) The expansion of health services and the training and skills enhancement of healthcare workers will
have to be in place.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
The success of the campaign depends crucially on the quality of its national leadership, and on its
financial and administrative effectiveness. While the project can and does address issues related to the
second topic, action on the first question depends on the evolution of political and social committment to
the campaign at the highest levels of the leadership elite in the country. There is a gradual strengthening
of resolve, but the 'airtime' given to the issue at the highest political and social levels can and probably
will increase as the crisis deepens.
Risk.                  Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Quality and commnitment of political      M         There is strong political leadership of the
leadership, including the National                  CNCS with strong commitment from President
Council, declines.                                  and Cabinet. AIDS assuming more importance
in public consciousness, which will raise
CNCS profile and induce continued
responsiveness.
Funding of Government contribution to     M         Minister of Finance sits on CNCS, aware of
- 41 -



the campaign does not increase, and or            issues, and committed to funding an expanded
declines.                                         program. Invitation for Bank involvement from
Minister of Finance reflects concern with
financing. Funding to date reliable, if limited.
Issue to be reviewed in PRSP.
Decline in support for broad HIV/AIDS    M        NGOs and civil society actively participating in
program by civil society and NGOs, and            program, many with funding outside of CNCS,
reduction in participation in health, care,       and interest is increasing from both local and
prevention and other initiatives.                 international organizations. Civil society
participation in Steering Committees at
provincial and national level should maintain
engagement.
Donor interest and financing declines.   M        Donors currently engaged in support of
program, albeit through a variety of vehicles in
addition to Government. Improved
international visibility and awareness of
HIV/AIDS crisis in Africa will work against
possible donor fatigue.
Breakdown in Government fiduciary        M         Significant effort and resources are dedicated
functions leads to misuse of funds, and           to improving financial management, accounting
decline in financial support from local            and auditing systems and procedures, and
and international donors.                          obtaining high level commnitment to following
such procedures.
From Components to Outputs
The Secretariat's management and         M         Institutional assessment carried out. Project
implementation capacity proves                     supporting training, systems development,
inadequate for task.                              sharing of tasks, decentralization and
contracting out in order to build Government
capacity and reduce implementation burden.
Operations Manual defined and agreed before
project effectiveness.
Insufficient community based              S        The weakness of civil society institutions
organizations and NGOs found in                    outside of Maputo and the main cities is a
provinces to carry forwards broad                  concern. Project will build capacity of select
program.                                           NGO program intermediaries in each province,
and work with and through them to identify,
strengthen, register and invigorate local
institutions at the community level. Activities
under project will build on and partner with
substantial work being carried out by NGOs
with local and foreign funding. Initial efforts
will focus on the center of the country.
-42 -



|Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None. The project follows a model already used for more than a dozen operations in the Africa Region.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1.    An Operational Manual and Project Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Bank have been
approved by the Government.
2.     An independent auditor has been contracted by CNCS Secretariat to audit project accounts.
3      The Government has appointed the following staff to the CNCS Secretariat: a deputy executive
secretary, a coordinator for planning and coordination, a financial manager, a procurement
specialist, and a monitoring and evaluation specialist, with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.     A satisfactory financial management system in place in the CNCS Secretariat, capable of
producing the necessary financial monitoring reports in a timely and accurate fashion.
5.     A procurement plan covering all components for the project period has been produced,
satisfactory to the Bank.
6.     The Project Account managed by the CNCS Secretariat has been opened.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1.    Mid term review report to be completed by June 2005. Mid term review would assess project
efficiency and effectiveness and propose adjustments in implementation arrangements as needed
to improve both. It would "inter-alia" consider possible Bank participation in the pooled funding
mechanism for community and social society initiatives.
2.    The Bank to be consulted prior to any change in the approved Operational Manual.
3.    A national HIV/AIDS communications strategy to have been prepared by December 31, 2003.
4.    Interim institutional assessments of the CNCS Secretariat to have been carried out by June 30,
2004 and June 30, 2006.
5.    It is a condition of disbursement for Component IV, the Scaling Up of Health Services for
HIV/AIDS, that the Government provide evidence of strengthened financial management and
procurement capacity and practice in the Ministry of Health for the implementation of the project
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
- 43 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
2 1. b) Not applicable.
L 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
D 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Filling key positions in the CNCS Secretariat.
Producing a procurement plan.
Completing installation of the financial system to meet Bank reporting requirements.
Completing a satisfactory Operations Manual and Project Implementation Plan.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
James H. Coates                  Karen Brooks                     Dariu(Mans
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
- 44 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: HIV/AIDS Response Project
, t CnOca;i ,;
~~  ~  ~    ~        Diita~'M3WCbllectio,n',Stra"te-g'yi, j. 
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Imcreasing Human           Health Status Indicators    Demographic and Health     Assumes the other elements of
Capabilities by preventing and (particularly life expectancy),  Survey, National Institute of  the broad poverty reduction
reducing the impact of      Educational Status Indicators  Statistics Surveys, Ministry of program envisioned in the
HIV/AIDS                                               Health Surveys, WHO,       PRSP are carried out,
UNTICEF, UNFPA, Ministry of increasing impact and
Education Surveys, UNESCO  effectiveness of health and
education services, irnproving
the efficiency of Government,
enabling the private sector to
grow, raising incomes and
increasing mcome earning
opportunities.
-45-



^''g .-} F .'P.'  Key'Performance.: -    ;DataCollectionStratei gy     .
* Hie arc                     h    i40f,06je'ct!ves~ - <  '-indicators'                                nst
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To slow the spread of      By 2008 HIV prevalence      MOH/WHO Sentinel surveys   Strong leadership by the
HIV/AIDS in Mozambique     amongst pregnant women in                              CNCS, including the
and mitigate the effects of the  the 15-24 age group has been                     Secretariat, the Ministry of
epidemic, through prevention  reduced by 25% from 2000                            Health and Cabinet
and care activities        levels.
By 2008 the age of sexual  MOH Epidemiology Dpt        Clear defimtion of effective
debut has increased by on year reports and DHS Surveys  communications and IEC
over 2002 age.                                         program on HIV, and rapid
engagement by NGOs in
support of program
By 2008 the number of sexual CNCS Secretariat Reports  Strong donor response in
partners outside of primary                            funding program requirements
union in last 12 months for
persons 15-49 has declmed by
25% from 2002 level.
By 2008 the rate of condom                             Strong interministerial
use in sexual encounters                               response, educational effort
outside of primary relationship                        and cooperation, at center,
in last 12 months by persons                           province and district levels.
15-19 has declined 25% from
2002 levels.
Effective strengthening of
CNCS Secretariat fiduciary
and administrative
capabilities, and strengthening
of trust with donors and
implementing agencies.
- 46 -



-  , Ke  Performancde` IP                    - Daifg':C61lec66o nStra't'ggy'  ?
~ '                             zi} Indlcators~       '            2' ;'        ' J -.; . i ' ,   Critical: rAu ptl,on s~
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A variety of projects      By 2008, there are at least 600 Reports on Community and  Effectivenss and speed of
underway led by civil society, HIV/AIDS civil society  Civil Society fund use to the  microproject review and
communities and private   initiatives funded in each  National Council          approval process and funding
sector covering HIV/AIDS   province each year.                                  mechanisms.
related prevention, advocacy,
public awareness creation and By 2008 at least 450                              Availability of NGOs or
care for orphans and PLWHA  initiatives with the private                        Government services to
sector have been funded.                             support community based
operation.
By 2008 there are 500,000
clients reached annually by all
of the key HIV/AIDS related
activities delivered by civil
society.
By 2008 at least US$ 7 million
per year are channeled to
communities and
implementing agencies.
Capacity developed in civil  By 2008 at least 2 facilitating  CNCS Secretariat reports to  Strong lead agent (NGO, firm)
society, amongst conmmunities, agents per province trained in the National Council.  found to carry out training.
private sector and leaders, to  HIV/AIDS issues
implement HIV/AIDS related                                                      Availability of large and
programs.                  By 2008 at least 500 national                        comnmitted NGOs willing to
leaders and 5000 provincial                          scale up in each province.
leaders trained in HIV/AIDS
issues.
Govemment at all levels and  Every funded Ministry have  Ministry reports to CNCS  Cormmitment by Ministers,
in all line ministries, are  met 75% of the funding and  Secretariat and Council  Governors and District
executing programs         outreach targets for HIV/AIDS                        Administrators to putting
advocating prevention and  set in 2002 plans.                                   H[V/AIDS support programs
supporting cure and care                                                        in place in their institutions,
activities for own staff and  By 2008, 75% of all civil                         and modifying programs to put
commnunities               servants have been reached by                        HIV/AIDS content in curricula
HIV/AIDS IEC.                                         and service delivery.
Every District have a plan
under implementation
HIV/AIDS related prevention  By 2008, 50 Voluntary   MISAU reports to CNCS      Ability of MISAU to generate
and care services in the public Counselling and Testing  Secretariat and Council.  broad support behind its
health sector have been scaled Centers in place.                                integrated network, bringing in
up and strengthened.                                                            local NGOs and civil society
By 2008, the number of                               in the response
peopled tested for HIV is
500% of the 2002 number.                              Ability of MISAU to manage a
process of contracting out
By 2008, 100% of all blood                            immediate increase in capacity
-47 -



transfusions are screened.                           for service delivery, then fit
this into long term process of
By 2008, 100% of public                              sustainable civil service
health center facilities have                        reform.
adequate drugs and trained
personmel to treat sexually
transmitted infections.
By 2008, 10 million condoms
are distributed through the
public sector.
CNCS institutional capacity to By 2008, an updated National CNCS Secretariat reports to  Strong commitment to
mobilize and coordinate    Strategic Plan has been   the National Council       HIV/AIDS campaign by
response has been          approved.                                            Ministry of Finance and
strengthened.                                                                   continued funding of
Communications strategy in                           overheads.
place, and significant
quantities of new IEC                                Successful design and
materials produced by June                           implementation of program
2004.                                                monitoring system.
Unqualified annual audit, or                          Successful leadership of civil
satisfactory management                              society response, and
response to qualifications.                           Government involvement.
All recipients of funding for
HIV/AIDS activities report to
CNCS under the monitoring
system and project database.
Budget execution for CNCS
funded program is at least
50% in year 1, and 90% in
year 4.
National legislation adjusted
to be responsive to HIV/AIDS
issues.
- 48 -



,;*~ ,,       :       P---.Key Perforn'arcice ;.,  DataCol ectionStlategy --
Hierarchy.of Obje tives'.                          ,             ., ..Critical Assumptions
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Community and Civil        US$ 27.8 million           Reports from the Civil Society Sufficient agents are found to
Society Initiatives                                   Initiatives Facility to CNCS  engage in mobilization of
communities
Community based activities on
prevention and care sponsored                                                    Effective mobilization and
from a variety of sources                                                        support to NGOs and civil
society.
Canacity Buildiniz for Civil  US$ 5.5 million         Reports from CNCS to the   Effective contractee identified
Society                                               Bank.                     to carry out training
Training of facilitating                                                         Receptiveness by civil society
institutions for community                                                       leaders and enterprises
mobilization, awareness
seminars for high profile
leaders, enterprise awareness
and response seminars
Government Multi-sector    US$ 7.2 million            Ministry reports to CNCS as  Ministers appoint and support
Response                                              compiled for the Bank      HIV/AIDS focal points at
center and provinces in their
Each Ministry, and                                                               institutions.
Government at Province and
District level to carry out
prevention and care projects                                                     District Government is indeed
educating staff, reaching out to                                                 convinced and activated in the
communities, integrating HIV                                                     struggle.
in regular programs
Scaline UD lHealth Services  US$ 17.5 million         MISAU reports to the CNCS, Capacity building in MISAU
as compiled for the Bank   is successful.
50 Health Centers in target
zones, offering counselling,                                                     Contracting out of services
HIV testing, guidance and care                                                   and support is successful, and
for PLWHA programs,                                                              the strategy for sustainability
including home based care,                                                       works.
and treatment.
Procedure and systems in
place providing for safe blood
supply
Diagnosis and treatment of
STDs and Opportunistic
Diseases is provided
Institutional DeveloDment  US$ 6.0 million            Project supervision and    Intensive support by CNCS
for Proeram Manaeement                                activity reports            and Donor Working Group.
Complete update of National                           CNCS Secretariat Annual     Supervision missions by
- 49 -



Strategy and Action Plan.                           reports on progress,     funding agencies, including
monitoring and evaluation  Bank
Strengthen program
coordination and
administration
Strengthen program
monitoring and evaluation
capability
Strengthen funds tracking and
reporting capability
Effective project review and
funding mechanism in place
- 50 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MOZAMBIQUE: HIV/AIDS Response Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$28.00 million
Community and Civil Societv Initiatives
Background
With an estimated adult HIV prevalence rate of just over 12% in a population of 17.3 million,
Mozambique has one of the fastest growing epidemics in sub-Saharan Africa. Multiple factors have
converged to create an environment that is conducive to a rapid spread of HIV/AIDS. These factors
include: a long and protracted civil war that displaced the population (both internally and externally), the
proximnity to high prevalence countries which hosted refugees from the internal conflict in Zambia,
Zimbabwe, Malawi, Swaziland, South Africa and Botswana, and devastation of social and econornic
institutions and infrastructure, which hampered the provision of critical basic services in health and
education. The spread of HIV/AIDS in Mozambique is associated with commercial activity, and
specifically inter-country transportation routes and migrant labor. Thus, the country's highest prevalence
levels are found in three provinces located in the middle portion of the country which serves as the
transport highway or corridor to Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi. These provinces are: Manica (21.1%),
Tete (19.8%) and Sofala (18.7%), followed by Gaza to the south with 16%, where a number of men
work as miners in South Africa.
Poverty is rife, especially in rural areas, and women and children are disproportionately affected. The
inter-play between poverty, HIV/AIDS and gender is well-known, and available statistics for
Mozambique indicate that women in the poorest quintile are less likely than men in the same quintile to
have knowledge of how HIV is transmitted - 26.8% compared to 40.8%. whereas in the richest quintile,
over 41% of the women and 71% of the men know how HIV is transmitted ( from Socio-Economic
Differences in Health, Nutrition and Population in Mozambigue by Davidson R. Gwatkin; Shea Rustein,
Kiersten Johnson, Rohini Pande, and Adam Wagstaff. World Bank HNP/Poverty Thematic Group, May
2000). What this reveals is that the poor, and poor women in particular have less access not only to
knowledge about HIV/AIDS but also by implication, less or no access to education and other services.
Women are not only at higher risk of HIV/AIDS, but they also bear the highest burden related to care and
support of PLWHA in the family and community. The gender dimensions of the epidemic will be
addressed by this component through the establishment of mechanisms to: (a) ensure that the preparatory
process for community sub-projects includes comprehensive analysis of gender (and other social issues)
that leads to selection of appropriate responses (e.g. income generating activities), (b) ensure female
participation and representation on decision-making committees and, (c) collect gender-disaggregated
data for all activities funded under the CCSI facility.
Community and civil societv organizations working on HI V/AIDS in Mozambique.
The Government of Mozambique recognizes the important role of communities and
non-governmental organizations in efforts to stem the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Consequently, the 2002
National Strategic Plan to Combat STDs and HIV/AIDS aims to support multiple sectors and actors to
slow the spread of HIV/AIDS. This, the largest component of the project, will support the activities of
civil society organizations in the battle against AIDS.
- 51 -



There are more than 50 local and international organizations(CBOs, NGOs, FBOs) working on
HIV/AIDS in Mozambique. The majority of their activities are concentrated in the high prevalence
provinces, mainly in the urban and peri-urban areas. In the last five years there has been an increase in
the number of organizations focusing solely on HIV/AIDS, with many of them coming into existence in
the last 2 to 3 years. Many of these NGOs are members of the umbrella organization, MONASO, whose
main role is to facilitate networking amongst its members and provide support in the form of technical
assistance for financial and program management and coordination. Financial and technical support for
MONASO is provided by donors and international NGOs. Organizations of PLWHA have also been
created but to date only two are formally registered. Due mainly to limited resources and capacity,
activities for the majority of NGOs and CBOs have tended to focus mainly on information dissemination
(IEC) and awareness raising. Emerging areas that will require support from this component are
home-based care and home visits, orphan support, mitigation of impact on families, health-related
services such as day hospitals and VCT, and stigma-reduction strategies.
Component Obiectives
The overall goal of this component is to empower communities and civil society organizations to
effectively respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. This component responds to the need for interventions to
slow the spread of HIV/AIDS, provide care and treatment for PLWHA, support both the infected and
those affected by HIV/AIDS such as families, orphans and widows. The component will address many of
the constraints facing communities and NGOs and CBOs in their efforts to scale up their work by
focusing primarily on the following: (i) Community Mobilization through awareness raising activities
(using IEC, facilitating agents, and various local actors); (ii) Promotion of local initiatives and
accountability through funding support mechanisms for HIV/AIDS related activities, including training
and capacity building for community leaders and institutions.
Activities
Activities to be supported under this component will fall in the areas of:
Prevention (interventions designed to raise awareness in the general populace, and to promote
condoms, voluntary counselling and testing, workplace interventions, and infornation, education and
communication on how to avoid infection, to vulnerable groups),
Care and Support (interventions designed to help those who are living with HIV and their families,
orphans and other vulnerable children),
Treatment (of opportunistic infections, STIs, TB, and HAART for health care staff and pregnant and
recent mothers and their children),
Mitigation of Impact (social and economic - through creation of income generating activities for
families who lose their main source of support, and monetary support for orphans).
Beneficiaries and benefits
Communities around the country, but especially the ones situated in provinces with the highest
prevalence rates, would benefit from support provided by this component. Benefits include
enlightenment through IEC activities regarding HIV/AIDS, empowerment from focused capacity
building and transfer of responsibilities for initiatives, increased sense of ownership for sub-projects
through active participation in identification, planning and design of sub-proj ects. With respect to
vulnerable and at-risk groups, the following groups in particular will greatly benefit from activities
funded under this component:
- 52 -



PLWHA - their inclusion in decision-making regarding HIV/AIDS related matters and the selection
of sub-projects will give them more visibility, empower them to voice their needs when necessary
and enhance their capacity to champion and defend the rights of PLWHA and other disenfranchised
groups. Stigma reduction will to a large extent depend on the visible inclusion of PLWHA all
HIV/AIDS related activities. Lastly, care, support and treatment will be expanded and become more
accessible for PLWHA.
Affected Families - When individuals contract HIV/AIDS, their families are also affected and have
to deal with the psychological, financial and social (stigma especially) consequences. It is envisaged
that the community mobilization and empowerment efforts using IEC, advocacy, and capacity
building will lead to HIV/AIDS competent communilies where resources and support can be made
readily available to affected families.
Orphans: Already, affected communities are providing limited services to orphans
Other vulnerable aroups: such as in-school and out-of-school youth especially girls, CSW, migrant
workers, truck drivers, street and homeless children), households headed by young children and
women, and women working in businesses that put them at risk such as in bars, hotels, and truck
stops. A large portion of the support for the latter will come from funds set aside for the private
sector sub-component.
Widows: Invariably, women whose husbands have died of AIDS find themselves at risk of plunging
into abject poverty because family resources have been depleted during the care-giving phase.
Poverty increases their vulnerability to sexual exploitation (this can be in the form of money or gifts
for sexual favors from 'serial' boyfriends, or prostitution), violence and H1V/AIDS. Furthermore, in
many African societies women have no rights to their husband's (or father's) inheritance and may
find themselves without property or material support.
If implemented successfully, society would accrue enormous benefits including the reduction in numbers
infected with HIV (and STIs), improved health care services, reduced medical costs, fewer orphans, and
an enhanced sense of well-being.
Implementation
Eight principles underpin the design and implementation of the Community and Civil Society Initiatives
(CCSI):
I. The project is operating in a dynamic and changing environment, therefore, the CNCS's
operation systems must be flexible and open to revision as the situation on the ground.;
2. The CNCS will act as a coordinating and facilitating body and will not implement any activities;
3. The CNCS's administration should be decentralized and have a community focus;
4. The CCSI should tie into existing systems and structures of CNCS; be coordinated and integrated
at the provincial level;
5. The project review, monitoring and accounting process must be open and transparent;
6. The systems must operate quickly without sacrificing accountability;
7. The CCSI should emphasize community and stakeholder participation; and
8. The administrative procedures should not adversely affect the existing relationships among
NGOs, or between NGOs/CBOs and the communities with which they work.
Elieible Aoplicants
- 53 -



Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) represent a wide range of actors, including non-government
organizations (NGOs), faith-based organizations (FBOs), professional associations, trade unions, and
community-based organizations (CBOs). Private Sector entities are a special category of CSO. Civil
Society Organizations, Private Sector entities and communities are all eligible to receive funds for
Community and Civil Society Initiatives. Different roles are defined for eligible entities. These roles
include Facilitating Agent, Implementer, Partner, and Specialist.
Civil Society Organizations are classified as follows. See Annex 10 of the Operational Manual (OM)
for more detailed chart of the categories and description of the responsibilities and activities of
organizations in each category.
Categorv A: Large international and national organizations with a presence in more than one
province of Mozambique, having managed at least US$ 20,000 under a reputable fiduciary system.
*      Cateaorv B: Middle-level organizations with a presence in at least one province in Mozambique,
having managed at least US$ 5,000 under a reputable fiduciary system.
*      CatenorY C: Small organizations or associations who operate in at least one province or locality,
having managed at least US$ 1,000 but requiring capacity building in financial and project management
*      Categorv D: Local groups and associations that participate in subproject implementation but do
not have the capacity to manage funds. These groups cannot manage funds independently and must
partner with Category A or Category B organizations to apply for fluds.
Private sector entities are classified as follows
*      Large International Companies: International owned companies which employ more than 100
people. There are approximately 200 large international companies in Mozambique.
*      Larae National Comnianies: Nationally owned and operated companies which employ more than
100 people. There are approximately 10 large national companies in Mozarnbique.
*      Small and Medium size companies: Companies which employ more than 20 but less than 100
people. There are approximately 1100 small and medium size companies in Mozambique.
*      Micro-Enterprises: Enterprises which employ less than 20 people. Micro-enterprises compromise
approximately 80% of the economy. There may be as many as several million micro-enterprises in
Mozambique
*      Trade Unions, Chambers of Commerce and Business Associations of Companies.
Institutional Arranzements for CCSI
(i) CNCS
CNCS is a coordinating body which facilitates but does not participate in the implementation of
HIV/AIDS activities. The operative structure at the central level is the CNCS Executive Secretariat. At
the provincial level, it is the Provincial Nucleus.
Responsibilities of the CNCS with respect to CCSI include
*      Development of IEC strategy and community mobilization tactics
*      Selection of Facilitating Agent (at the provincial level)
*      Sign contract with Facilitating Agent
*     Training of Facilitating Agent (may be contracted out to a Specialist)
*      Supervision of Facilitating Agent
- 54 -



*      Regular convening of national and provincial review comnittees
*      Notification of Applicants
*      Sign contract with the Client or Partner
*      Consolidation of M&E, financial, and project management information for all projects
At both the central and provincial levels, there are key CNCS staff members working on CCSI. At the
central level, these staff members include:
CCSI Implementation Coordinator:  Tasked with the coordination of the implementation of
subprojects both at the central and provincial levels. The CCSI Implementation coordinator is also
responsible for convening monthly meetings with the Civil Society and Private Sector working
groups
Project Officer for Capacity Building: This position is associated with the UNDP HIV/AIDS
Institutional Capacity Building Project (MOZ/00/010) and is to be funded and filled by UNDP at
least for the duration of the project (5 years).: tasked with the technical support and coordination of
the Civil Society liaisons (IlNVs) working at the provincial level.
At the provincial level, these staff members include
Civil Society Liaison: This position is also associated with the UTNDP project and will be filled by
Mozambican UN Volunteers: tasked with coordination and communication between civil society
organizations and the Provincial Nuclei.
The TORs for these CNCS staff members are included in the Operational Manual, Arnex 1.
(ii) Facilitating Agent
A Facilitating Agent is an intermediary organization that is contracted by CNCS to provide capacity
building and training activities for imnplementers (especially those in Categories C and D). This role
should be played by an NGO in Category A. Responsibilities of the Facilitating Agent under the contract
(MOU) with CNCS are as follows (TORs and Forms for assessment are available in the OM):
* Assess the capacity of NGOs and CBOs operating in the assigned region using the NGO
Capacity Assessment form (Annex 12).
*  Visit districts and carry out community mobilization
*  Distribute subproject proposal fonns and guidelines
* Help interested applicants to prepare subprojects and complete required forms
* Assist small organizations and CBOs to register legally
* Assist CBO to submit subproject proposal to CNCS for approval process
* Train applicants on subproject management, financial management, and procurement according
to guidelines
*  Assist small organizations and CBOs to find implementing partners
* Monitor subproject implementation through site visits
*  Assist implementers in resolving subproject implementation bottlenecks
*  Suggest the interruption of the execution of any subprojects activities in case of anomalies or
deviations from the planned project and approved procedures
* Support monitoring and evaluation activities
* Other tasks as assigned by the CNCS Provincial Coordinator
* Working with District Administrations in the development of District HIV/A IDS Plans
- 55 -



(iii) Implementer
An implementer is a successful applicant. The implementer may be an NGO, FBO, CBO, private sector
entity, local group, or association that implements an approved subproject. Specific responsibilities of
the implementer include
*  Prepare subproject proposal form
*  Sign contract with CNCS
*  Receive funds
*  Prepare a subproject implementation plan
*  Implement subproject as planned
*. Submit required reporting forms for monitoring purposes
* Document financial transactions
* Submit required financial reports
If a small organization or CBO does not have legal standing or technical capacity to perform these
responsibilities alone, they are encouraged to build partnerships with larger organizations and NGOs.
International NGOs are required to partner with at least one local Mozambican organization for
subproject implementation. The goals of this partnership are to strengthen and build the capacity of local
organizations and to ensure that projects are integrated with the needs of local communities.
Eligible Activities
The PEN supports HIV/AIDS-related interventions that seek to prevent transmission or mitigate the
impact of the disease. The CNCS organizes eligible activities into Activities and Initiatives.
The main categories of eligible activities include
1.    information, education, and communication (IEC),
2.     health care,
3.     care and support for the community,
4.    institutional development,
5.    reduction of the economic and social impact of HIV/AIDS,
6.     politics and advocacy,
7.     evaluation and surveys,
8.    reduction of stigma.
The full list of these activities is given in the OM, Annex 8
Allocation of resources
Approval decisions for Community and Civil Society Initiatives are taken against a budget
ceiling at both the provincial and national levels. These ceilings are determined by the CNCS
Planning and Budgeting Process. Allocations for the central level and for each of the provinces
and Maputo city are based on the following criteria:
1.     Population
2.     HIV prevalence
3.     Performance indicators
-56 -



Prolect (ycle
The project cycle includes six main steps. A schedule for carrying out the project cycle is set out below.
_ Planning
1    Evaluation of previous cycle and  Last Quarter of the  CNCS central level
strategy planning                year
2    re-Allocation of Funds           Last Quarter of the  CNCS central level
year
Preparation
3     Comimunity mobilization and      Continuous        Facilitating Agent  Civil Society
information dissemination                                             Liaison
Distribution of application forms and  Continuous   Facilitating Agent  Civil Society
training in project preparation                                       Liaison
4     Writing/preparation of project   Continuous        Applicant         Facilitating  8 - IV
proposal                                                              Agent
5    Subrnission of written project   By the I st day of  Applicant        Facilitating
proposal and supporting          the month                            Agent
documentation and registration
Appraisal
6     Certification of project eligibility and  By the I 0th day of  Civil Society      8 - VI
verification of criteria         the month         Liaison
*An ineligible application must be
returned within 5 working days of
appraisal
Approval
7    Decision making meeting where    Between the 15th   provincial review  Provincial
subprojects are evaluated according  and the 30th days  committee     Coordinator
to the Subproject Proposal Review  of the month
Guidelines
8     If proposed subproject is above $20  Quarterly -   national review   Executive
000, the proposal must be        between the 15th  committee          Secretary
recommended by the provincial    and 30th days of
review committee and sent to the  the month
national review commitee for
Iapproval
Written notification to Applicant  By the 30th day of  Provincial
*Acceptance/rejection decision   the month in which  Coordinator or
accompanied by detailed comments.  the decision is  Executive
taken              Secretary
9     Submission of signed MOU to the  By the 15th day of Implementer                   8 - VII
Provincial Coordinator or Executive  the following
ISecretary                        month
Implementation
10    Preparation and submission of   Quarterly -         Implementer                   8 - VI
financial and procurement planning  according to
and reporting forms             guidelines in the
Financial Manuals
Periodic reporting on the progress of  Quarterly    Implementer                      - VIII
- 57 -



project implementation
Supervision
11    Supervisory visits to implementers  At least twice a year  Facilitating Agent  Civil Society 8 - VIII
for each                           Liaison
implementer
Implementation Review and      Armually, during the  Civil Society  Provincial
Knowledge Sharing Workshop at the  month of June  Liaison         Coordinator
provincial level
12    Payment of next fund's installment  After reviewing and  Facilitating Agent  Provincial  8 - VIII
accepting progress                 Coordinator
report
13  Provisional and Final Handover  At the end of the  Civil Society
I ___________ ____________ ___________ project   Liaison
14    Project Finalization          At the end of the  Civil Society   Provincial
project           Liaison          Coordinator
Appraisal Criteria
Upon receipt of a subproject proposal, the Civil Society Liaison should ensure that the proposal meets
the appropriate eligibility criteria. These criteria are different for each category of NGO, CBO, and for
the Private Sector. Key criteria are ennumerated below. Details are available in the Operational
Manual.
In appraising and evaluating the subproject applications, the following budget restrictions and
financial guidelines will apply for Community and Civil Society Initiatives:
* No project budget and supported activities should exceed 24 months duration. If the project is
funded through the Special Account for the World Bank, then the duration of the project cannot
exceed the five-year mandate of the Mozambique HIV/AIDS Response Project (MAP).
* A maximum funding limit of US$100,000 per project with preference given to smaller projects;
* At any given time, the CNCS will not provide funding to an organization in excess of 75% of the
organization's previous year's annual budget;
* Only eligible activities (as defined by the CNCS Initiatives and Activities) will be considered for
financing;
*  No counterpart funds are required of implementing partners; however, conmmunity in-kind
contributions will be encouraged; and
*  Up to a maximum of 20% of the total proposed project budget will be allowed for NGO or CBO
"organizational" costs including administrative costs, overheads, general equipment which would
not directly benefit the community.
The Civil Society Liaison must confirm the Basic Criteria listed in Part A of the Subproject Proposal
Review Guidelines. If basic eligibility criteria are unmet or if any of these budget and financial
restrictions are violated in the subproject proposal, the Civil Society Liaison must return the proposal to
the applicant for revision. An ineligible proposal must be returned to the applicant within 5 working
days of appraisal and the ineligible proposal must be accompanied by the Eligibility Criteria and the
Subproject Proposal Review Guidelines or Scorecard and Guidelines for Private Sector entities.
Approval
Once the subproject proposal has been appraised and deemed eligible for funds, the proposal enters the
approval stage. Subprojects are considered for approval by the provincial and national review
- 58 -



committees. If the applicant is requesting less than US$ 20,000, the proposal is considered by the
provincial review committee at the provincial level. If the applicant is requesting more than US$ 20,000,
the proposal is considered by the national review committee at the central level.
More detailed descriptions of the implementation criteria and guidelines can be found in the Operational
Manual.
Monitoring indicators to measure success in the implementation of this component can be found in the
Annex 1.
Project Component 2 - US$5.50 million
Capacity Building for the Civil Society HIV/AIDS Resvonse
This component will support efforts to create AIDS competent communities by strengthening the
implementers, supporters, and target groups active under the Community and Civil Society Initiatives.
Activites would include (i) hiring and training of 'facilitating agents' in community mobilization and
capacity creation for local organizations, as well as (ii) awareness development and capacity building for
leadership in the public sector, civil society and the private sector, (iii) and the formulation of training
modules in HIV/AIDS awareness for use in public and private sector enterprises. Specialized packages of
Information, Education and Communications (IEC) materials would be developed and distributed
through this effort.
Capacitv Buildine for Facilitating Agents
NGOs selected to be Facilitating Agents would be provided with a course which would impart essential
features of the CCSI component, the procedures to be followed in preparing, appraising, and supervising
implementation of community activities. The course would also provide for an assessment of the NGO's
capabilities, and would strengthen its capacity in community mobilization, financial management,
monitoring, or other key function essential to carrying out the task.
Capacitv Buildine! for Civil Society Actors
Capacity building activities for civil society are the responsibility of the Facilitating Agent. This
component supports the work of the Facilitating Agent to train implementers and build the capacity of
local communities to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Local level capacitv building:
Community mobilization, dissemination of information at the local level, and on-the-job training of
implementing actors. These activities should take place at the district or community level, in the area
assigned to the Facilitating agent, and would incorporate local leadership and community participation.
Provincial level capacitv buildine:
Training of trainers, and extra help (outside of daily activities) in order build capacity for financial
management and project management. This could include training of small NGOs, CBOs, local
organizations, and associations on development of subproject proposals, management, accounting,
reporting, and other skills necessary for the preparation and implementation of a successful proposal.
- 59-



National level capacity building:
Capacity building activities for large national and international NGOs, umbrella organizations, and other
major actors at the national level. This could also include national conferences for training of
Facilitating Agents and other events for the sharing of best practices and coordination of the Civil
Society response. Facilitating Agents are encouraged to collaborate at both the provincial and national
levels to ensure the exchange of ideas and flow of information.
Leadership training
Leadership and advocacy training will be important at all levels. World Bank funds can be used to
support such efforts. Leadership training must include all major stakeholder groups, including CSOs,
FBOs, NGOs, CBOs, Private Sector, local governments, civil servants, national leaders, cultural leaders,
etc.
NGO Capacitv assessment
As a first step to implementation of this component, a rapid assessment of NGO and CBO capacity will
be undertaken in the provinces, using a rapid assessment tool. This exercise should build on the many
NGO assessments already carried out. The exercise will include a capacity and needs assessment of
large NGOs, both Mozambican and International including umbrella NGOs such as MONASO
(provincial level). The assessment will enable the creation of a database with information on NGO/CBO
areas of expertise, geographical coverage, clients/beneficiaries and staff capacity. The database will be
used to guide the selection of NGOs to be contracted either as Facilitating Agents (see OM for
description of roles and responsibilities) or Intermediary organizations. A capacity assessment and
training of a select number of larger NGOs (mostly in the Maputo area) has already been undertaken by
a local (national) 'Intermediary' NGO funded by a bilateral agency. The assessment would be carried
out by a contractor to the CNCS. TORs are provided in the Operational Manual.
Project Component 3 - US$ 7.00 million
Government Multisector Response
Component Description
Ministries and subordinate institutions will be supported under this component in their development and
implementation of programs directed toward their personnel and their clients. Under this component,
ministries are encouraged to expand their activities in the area of HIV/AIDS, according to the National
Strategic Plan and their Ministry Plans.
General Context of the Ministerial Response to HIV/AIDS
There will be a Focal Point in each Ministry that will be in charge of expediting the coordination of the
day-to-day execution of the respective sectoral component of the plan. No new departments will be
created and no new personnel hired. The sub-project or sectoral plan of action will be implemented
within the existing sectoral program. Ministries should also set up HIV/AIDS Committees, composed of
the personnel already available to them, to handle sectoral implementation of the project within each
Ministry. A memorandum of understanding will govern relations between the CNCS and the Ministries.
This memorandum will include specific details as to flow and management of the financing, anticipated
results, accounting rules, and other obligations and benefits pertaining to the executing Ministry.
- 60 -



Institutional Arrangements in the Ministerial Response
Ministerial HI V/AIDS Committee
Each Ministry must have in place a Ministerial Committee (Team) that is responsible for the fight against
AIDS within that Ministry. Its mission is to coordinate the program and perform the follow-up and
evaluation of that program within the ministry. The Ministerial Committee must meet in regular session
at least once every two months, more often if necessary and appropriate. Each Ministerial Committee is
allowed to organize itself as it sees fit, provided it makes certain that it will be headed, at a high level, by
a senior official (Vice Minister, Permanent Secretary, or National Director). The leadership at this level
will have general responsibility for implementing the sectoral component of the fight against HIV/AIDS.
The top-level leadership mentioned above must designate a Focal Point, which may be one person or a
group of persons (unit) that will expedite the coordination of the ministry's response in terms of efforts to
combat AIDS. The top leadership will be responsible for scheduling the bimonthly meetings or other
meetings at the ministerial level, and the Focal Point will be responsible for organizing those gatherings.
New departments should not be created to manage and mainstream the HIV/AIDS effort within the
ministries. On the contrary, ministries should take advantage of the departments and divisions already in
place to implement their anti-AIDS programs.
Focal Point
Each ministry should identify its Focal Point (person or Unit) at the national or provincial level. That
Focal Point will be the special contact point for all questions related to anti-AIDS efforts conducted
within the ministries, provincial directorates, and subordinate institutions.
The Focal Point is a full-time position that needs to be flexibly structured in order to facilitate quick and
effective intervention. Its job is to coordinate the drafting of ministry plans, implementation, monitoring,
and supervision of anti-AIDS activities in its sector. It also prepares and compiles quarterly reports on
the course of the activities in its sector for submission to the Ministerial HIV/AIDS Committee and the
CNCS. The Focal Point must also attend the monthly rneeting of Focal Points to be scheduled by the
Ministry Response Coordinator who is based at the Executive Secretariat of the CNCS.
If there are Focal Points at the provincial and district levels, they are coordinated by the Focal Point at
the central level and concentrate their actions on coordination of the activities of their sector at the
provincial and district levels. The Focal Point at the provincial level must always coordinate with the
Provincial AIDS Nucleus (CNCS).
Under the institutional training component, Focal Points at all levels will receive support and training to
develop their abilities to design and operate action plans at the central, provincial, district and community
levels; as well as training in data gathering, monitoring, reports production, proposal submission
procedures, sensitivity training for approaches to the comnmunity, establishment of partnerships, etc. At
the central level, the Focal Point will have support in the form of information technology and office
supplies.
Ministry Response Coordinator at the CNCS Executive Secretariat
One person in the CNCS Executive Secretariat will be designated as Response Coordinator of the
activities to be carried out in the ministerial component of the national response to AIDS. This
- 61 -



individual's main task will be to guide and assist the ministries to carry out their activities, working in
close cooperation with the ministries' Focal Points. The Ministry Response Coordinator's job is to
provide methodological and technical support for the development and management of ministry plans
and activities, including explanation of procedures and M&A criteria.
The Ministerial Response Coordinator must also hold at least one monthly meeting with all the Focal
Points of the various ministries to discuss such topics as questions pertaining to the progress of the
preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of projects and activities. The Terms of
Reference for the Ministerial Response Coordinator are included in Annex 1 of the Operations Manual.
National and provincial review committees
Coordination of the sectoral activities and strategies for combating AIDS, as well as coordination with
the programs and strategies of other sectors, provinces, and communities, is to be handled by the
National and provincial review committees. The representatives of the various government sectors and
of civil society on those councils, including donors, meet to review programs and make certain that there
is no program overlap and that the responsible institutions are furnishing the needed support to the
provinces, districts, and communities. The details on the functioning of the national review committee
are presented in the Operations Manual.
The Ministerial Operating Plans (Central and Provincial Levels)
Each ministry and its subordinate institutions must develop sectoral plans to address HIVIAIDS, oriented
toward its employees and clients/users. The activities to be covered in the ministry plans should include
the following target groups:
Internal Target Group. One part of the plan must designate as target group the personnel of
ministries and subordinate institutions, and their families, and will include activities oriented
toward the prevention of HIV/AIDS and STDs through education, training, distribution and
availability of condoms, and dissemination of information. Also to be included are treatment of
opportunistic infections and provision of health care to infected and affected personnel, including
their families. Changes in behavior and the de-stigmatization of the disease in the workplace and
at home are to be encouraged.
External Target Group. The other part of the plan must be designed to reach clients and/or
users of the services provided by the ministry and its subordinate institutions, such as young
people-whether or not in school-and their associations, athletic clubs, and cultural groups, as
well as farmers, migrant workers and their families, children and orphans, school councils and
other groups considered to be within the jurisdiction or under the protection of specific
ministries. This part of the plan should focus on provision of services and information that result
in effective preventive actions and access to health care for the clients and/or users of the
services provided by the ministries and their respective institutions. These activities can be
carried out by developing methodologies for reaching those groups and for establishing
partnerships. They would include training for staff, rural extension workers, community
workers, and activists.
In drafting the sectoral plan, the Ministerial Committees and, particularly, the Focal Point in each sector,
must ensure that:
- 62 -



*   The various actors working in the sector are involved in the preparation of the plan;
*   The heads of the various government agencies, private organizations, and elements of civil
society in the sector are sufficiently well informed about the sectoral strategy and the modes
of execution, as well as the results expected from the program.
*   The translation of the sectoral strategic plan into a plan of action must explain the actions to
be taken by the public and private organizations and by civil society.
*   Efforts must be made to mainstream the plan for combating AIDS into the overall ministry
plan, so as to ensure better use of the human and technical resources available in the
institution.
*   Activities and budgets for the plans are to be broken down by province and, possible, by
district.
*   The Ministries and their respective Provincial Directorates should try to ensure that their
activities are in harmony with those of the other interministerial partners and entities in civil
society in order to avoid overlap and maximize comparative advantage.
The Ministry Planning Cycle
Efforts should be made, in planning activities aimed at combating HIV/AIDS at the ministry level, to
adapt to the normal planning cycle applicable to public sector institution activities. The plan that the
ministry submits for review and approval by the Technical Council should be the ministry's plan for
fighting AIDS and must include activities to be carried out at both the central and provincial levels by the
Ministry, the Provincial Directorates, and the subordinate institutions.
Preparation                                       _
Identification of Ministerial                Minister      Ministry
HIV/AIDS Committee and                                    Response
designation of Focal Point                               Coordinator
Preparation of Ministry Plans,               Ministerial
bearing in mind the aspects outlined           HIV/AIDS
below                              Committee
Submission of proposed Ministry               Focal Point    Ministerial
Plan for Pre-Approval Review                               HIV/AIDS
Committee
Review                         =
Written acknowledgement of     Within 3       Ministry
receipt of proposed Ministry Plan  working days of  Response
submission     Coordinator
Verification of eligibility, review  Within 7   Ministry
of proposed Ministry Plan  working day s of  Response
submission     Coordinator
Written notification of criteria met  Within 7  Ministry
- if criteria not met, include  working days of  Response
explanation of steps to be taken to  review   Coordinator
meet the criteria
Intemal review of proposed                  Focal Point    Ministerial
Ministry Plan and submission of                              HIV/AIDS
- 63 -



final draft                                       Comrnittee
Approval
Decision making meeting where  Quarterly -  national review  Executive
proposed Ministry Plan is   between the    committee     Secretary
evaluated            15th and 30th
days of the
month
Written notification of the results  By the 30th day  Ministry
of the Approval process (includes  of the month in  Response
minutes from meeting)     hich a decision  Coordinator
is  taken                  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
Signing of the Memorandum of  By the 15th day  Minister
Understanding         of the following
month
Implementation and Financial
=____         Management                month                                     =
Preparation of Ministry plans
The first step in the preparation of Ministry Plans is the identification of a Ministerial HIV/AIDS
Committee and Focal Point. Once this core team has been selected, development of the Ministry Plan
can begin.
Aspects to be Considered in the Ministry plans
*   Ministry plans must be consistent with the ministry's own mandate, and give priority to
decentralization in their implementation and execution;
*   Establishment of partnerships with other government institutions and with civil society to
implement the plans in cases where doing so offers competitive advantages;
*   Identification of other sources of financing, as well as ways to join with other ministries in
implementing the plan;
*   Demonstration of a clear vision of the size of the Ministry (number of employees);
*   Verification of the extent of the Ministry's geographical presence (territorial implantation);
*   Indication of the degree of coverage (number of clients/users covered by the Ministry's
activities and/or services);
*   Description of the capabilities and quality of the available human resources;
*   Use of the funds received from the project for the intended purpose in accordance with the
regulations in the Operations Manual and the ministry planning standards to be furnished by
the CNCS:
*   Implementation of the work prograrns via efficient and effective strategies;
*   Establishment of accountability for funds via regular submission to the CNCS of activities
and financial reports.
Submission, Review and Approval
The annual plans developed by the ministries concerning the HIV/AIDS components, properly budgeted,
are to be sent to the Executive Secretariat of the CNCS one month prior to the end of the fiscal year.
Within the Executive Secretariat of the CNCS, the Ministry Response Coordinator should conduct an
initial review of the plans to verify that they satisfy the basic requirements. If these have been satisfied,
- 64 -



the plans are to be sent to the national review committee within seven business days. If the Plan does not
meet minimum requirements, the Ministry Response Coordinator must send a letter to the ministry that
submitted the plan, describing the deficiencies found-again, within seven business days. The Technical
Council should also be notified of this circumstance, in writing.
Eligibility Criteria
In general, in order to be eligible for financing by the national anti-AIDS system, projects must conform
to the national strategy to combat AIDS.
Ministries that submit their proposed plans for approval must have:
*   Staff personnel available for the purpose
*   An established Ministerial AIDS Committee with an active executive corps.
*   A designated full-time Focal Point
*   Consistency with the PEN
*   Focus on vulnerable groups
*   Activities directed to Ministry personnel and to their clients/users
List of Ineligible Products/Services
The following products and services are not eligible for financing within the context of anti-AIDS
initiatives and the national anti-AIDS institutional framework:
*   Construction or rehabilitation of buildings
*   Drugs and similar products prohibited by law
* War materiel and/or weapons
Approval Procedure
The national review committee meets quarterly (at least once every three months) or more often
as necessary and/or appropriate, as called by the CNCS Executive Secretariat. The Technical Committee
must consider for review all ministry plans that were submitted at least 15 days prior to the date of the
meeting.
The CNCS Executive Secretariat, acting through the Ministry Response Coordinator, will inform
the proposing Ministry as to the discussions and decisions of the Technical Council within seven
business days of receipt of the decisions from the Technical Council.
Implementation, Financial Management
Financial management procedures will follow the description as approved in the Project Operations
Manual. The first disbursement of funds must not exceed 25% of total plan funds. Subsequent
disbursements require receipt of ajustification of the use of the funds initially disbursed and submission
of revisions and/or quarterly updates of the plans, expressing positive results in terms of performance.
The activities to be carried out at the central level must be financed through the CNCS Executive
Secretariat at the central level. The activities to be carried out in the provinces are to be financed through
the Provincial Nuclei of the CNCS, as illustrated in the following organizational chart:
- 65 -



IT*.hnk.I       --.
Fnndlng Flow        central Level
_  i   )      ~~~~~~~Funding Flow > 
_ 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ProvincilDrcoa          l
Within the approved ministry plans, items that are not provided by the ministry, such as materials and
equipment, will need to be furnished by the CNCS Executive Secretariat after a transparent competitive
bidding process to be conducted in accordance with the requirements outlined in Chapter 5 of this
Operations Manual. The procurement officer will be responsible for this process.
Supervision: Obligations of the Ministries, Provincial Directorates and Subordinate Institutions
The ministries, provincial directorates and their subordinate institutions shall be responsible for the funds
channeled to them, including those intended for use in management and implementation of activities for
their clients/users and/or partners or those funds used for services obtained through subcontracting. The
funds made available must be used for the purposes agreed on in the plans and the memorandum of
understanding. The Ministerial AIDS Committee and its top leadership will be responsible for managing
the funds, assisted by staff of its Department of Planning and Finance.
Ministries Included
While the following ministries will receive particular attention given the role they play in the fight
against HIV/AIDS, assistance could be provided to other ministries and Government agencies which
submit HIV/AIDS action plans, and meet the conditions for support set forth above. The CNCS and
Ministry Response Coordinator will focus on assisting these ministries in developing their Ministry Plans
as soon as possible. Other Ministries and Agencies will also be assisted to draft the respective
HIV/AIDS action plans.
1.     Ministry of State Administration
2.     Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
3.     Ministry of Culture
4.     Ministry of Defense
5.     Ministry of Education
6.     Ministry of Interior
7.     Ministry of Transport and Communications
8.     Ministry of Women and Coordination of Social Action
9.     Ministry of Labor
10.    Ministry of Youth and Sports
11.    Ministry of Environment
- 66 -



12.    Ministry of Planning and Finance
13.    Ministry of Public Works and Housing
14.    Ministry of Tourism
15.    Ministry of Higher Education Science and Technology
Project Component 4 - US$17.50 million
Strenftheninn and Scalinn UD Health Sector Services for HIV/AIDS
Description
Ministry of Health (MISAU) is the implementing agency for the component to strengthen the national
health services. Within the context of the overall HIV/AIDS program, and as outlined in the National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework (PEN) 2000-2002, Ministry of Health has the mandate of scaling up
response of the health sector to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and to provide technical leadership on treatment
and care for people living with HIV/AIDS. At the core of the Ministry's strategy for responding to the
burden placed on it by the HIV/AIDS epidemic is a vision for providing comprehensive care to those
affected by HIV/AIDS through its integrated health networks.
g ARV drulp for Eme or tubsidisd.)
aXUX OF BENEFICIARIES WITHIN
AN I4TEGRRATED NETWORK TO COMBAT HIVIAIDS
IMPOMRUON. EOSCArON AD
COIdIjlCTmO (MC)
Rkd              I * E
-_             *  -w VCI
....     *                   I8M "  C t ,
- =g.ua               *   ne               i- 
-S        r* ft4*a0"5        I     __    __   _
CR.9 D Dwy Cli-kt
., IAD l TNATAL CAAM I|
tsec ~~~~~~~ ~*       I~S  aIc
(Mb|sm&,A. _O       . NAAR r tDla -.-a)  _E       WASOS
D"". __    b.V,>                       ^,       a  CT     
C 4 wwlwl t_O Sab
h~ ~OI9~d~     * Cdu t         _ _         '* cD.-T
IIOASDCAAK                              cm~
The IDA Grant will support the Ministry by financing priority elements needed to scale up existing
HIV/AIDS-related activities in the sector as a means of reaching the goal of providing comprehensive
package of care to people living with HIV/AIDS. The following activities are planned for financing
under this component:
Provision of Drues. Test Kits and Condoms:
-67 -



A critical piece in the vision of creating integrated health networks is access to voluntary counseling and
testing facilities. Such facilities need both test kits and trained manpower to properly provide the needed
pre- and post-test counseling. The project will finance the provision of HIV test kits for use at the VCT
centers. In addition, test kits for both HIV and syphilis will be provided for screening of blood for
transfusion in health facilities and for the testing of pregnant women at antenatal clinics.
The project will finance drugs for the prevention of opportunistic infections through prophylaxis as well
as their treatment and for syndromic management of sexually transmitted infections.
Anti-retroviral drugs will be financed specifically for the prevention of parent to child transmission
according to the policy outlined by the Government of Mozambique. Post-exposure prophylaxis for
health workers who are occupationally exposed to HIV will also be supported with the anti-retroviral
drugs.
The continued provision of condoms both through the public system and the social marketing approaches
are important pre-requisites for HIV prevention. It is acknowledged that condoms alone are not enough,
but the supply of the condoms is expected to go hand in hand with other efforts to promote behavior
change among the target population. The project will finance the supply of condoms and distribution
through the existing MISAU structure.
Stren,thenini Clinical Laboratory Capacity:
Under this category of activities, the training of laboratory personnel and the provision of laboratory
equipments for the diagnosis and monitoring of HIV therapy will be provided. Such equipments will
include those for CD4 monitoring and others whose specifications will be determined prior to project
effectiveness. Additional equipments will include those for the diagnosis of opportunistic infections.
Ensurinz Blood Safety
The project will support the strengthening of the blood banks to prevent HIV transmission through blood
transfusion. The areas of initial focus will be the four central provinces where HIV prevalence are
highest ( Sofala, Tete, Manica and Zambezia Provinces). In addition to the laboratory equipments
specific to the blood banks and the test kits provided, this category will support the provision of reagents
and consumables to ensure proper screening of blood for transfusion.
Increasin-a Bio-Security
The project will support the protection of health workers from occupational exposure to HIV/AIDS.
Equipments and consumables for dis-infection and health worker protection from occupational risks will
be provided. These provisions will be complemented by specific training on preventive behaviors for
reducing occupational exposure to HIV.
Sensitization of Health Sector Staff
Under this category of activities, the project will support the development of information, education and
communication strategies and materials targeted at the health sector staff on the prevention of HIV
transmission for themselves and their families.
Capacity Building
- 68 -



The project will support the training of health workers in the appropriate management and care of HIV
infected persons. Training will be provided to all new staff employed during implementation. The initial
focus of the training activities will be the four central provinces. These training activities will be
conducted through the Ministry's Institutes in the provinces. The training activities in this category will
be complementary to other training modules on HIV/AIDS supported by other donors such as UNDP.
Research on Traditional Medicine
The Ministry considers traditional medical practitioners as partners in the fight against HIV/AIDS. The
project will support the systematic research study of traditional remedies which may be useful for the
care of HIV infected persons. Traditional herbs will be analyzed, and a database of existing remedies
created and codified. The results from research studies supported under this category will be submitted
to peer reviewed journals for publication.
Health Waste Mana-aement
The project will support the health care waste management related to HIV/AIDS activities in the Ministry
of Health. The health wastes related to HIV/AIDS are mostly of infectious nature and will need to be
properly disposed in order to protect both health workers and the general public . Health sector staff will
be trained on proper handling of infectious wastes and segregation of different categories of waste.
Equipments for disposal and sterilization of medical wastes will also be provided at the provincial level
health facilities. Incineration will be kept to the minimum level necessary in light of the potential
environmental impact of its widespread use ( carcinogenic dioxin production).
Management and Implementation of the Health Sector Component
The Minister of Health has the overall responsibility for implementation of the health sector component
of the project. He will be assisted in this task by the Ministry's Advisory Council (Conselho Consultivo
do Ministro -- CCM), the Directorate of Planning and Cooperation (DPC) and the National Directorate
of Health (DNS). The DPC will coordinate the implementation of the component. A project
coordinator will be designated from DNS to manage the project. He will report directly to DNS and will
coordinate with all implementing Directorates. The project coordinator will be responsible for
preparation of annual work plans in consultation with I)NS, DPC and all relevant technical and
administrative departments. The plan will be submitted to the CCM by the DPC. These plans will be
prepared as part of annual planning cycle of the Ministry of Health. The work plans will be approved by
the Minister and shared with the CNCS. Upon initiation of program implementation, the project
coordinator will present a quarterly progress update to the Minister of Health and the CCM. This
schedule will be used for the first year and evaluated thereafter. These reports will be submitted to both
DNS and DPC and to the quarterly meetings of the CC M. A copy of this report will be provided to the
CNCS for its regular reporting on the overall progress of the project
-69 -



Technical Implementation - Coordination by DNS  Component Management
Functional Units of the Ministry of Health
Ministry of Health (MISAU)
Directorate of Planning and Cooperation (DPC)
National Directorate of Health (DNS)
Directorate of Human Resources (DRH)
Directorate of Administration and Management (DAG)
Cabinet for the Coordination of Projects and Investment (GACOPI)
Agency for Drugs and Medical Supplied (CMAM)
Directorate of Plannine and Cooperation (DPC).
Overall coordination will be managed by the DPC which will report to the Minister and the CCM.
Primary responsibilities of the DPC include:
I .   Overall coordination of program management
2.     Supervision of financial management, procurement management and logistics for the health
component of the World Bank project
3.     Management of monitoring and evaluation
4.     DPC will work closely with the National Directorate of Health (DNS) which is responsible for
technical coordination and implementation of health programs in review of annual workplans.
DPC will submit the annual workplan to the CCM and the Minister for approval.
GACOPI
GACOPI is a project implementation unit under the DPC. It will be funded by a group of
external agencies and the World Bank HIV/AIDS Response Project. For the HIV/AIDS Response
Project, GACOPI will provide support to the MOH on procurement and management of external funds.
Counterpart funds will be managed by DAG. Each participating agency will determine its needs for
procurement and funding and submitting them to GACOPI through the project coordinator. GACOPI
will work closely with the different departments in assessing requirements and planning for procurement
and disbursement of funds. GACOPI will procure additional services to assist in specific functions of
procurement, accounting and auditing. GACOPI will report on a monthly basis to the project coordinator
on the status of procurement and disbursements.
- 70 -



The National Directorate of Health (DNS).
The DNS is responsible for providing technical guidance, supervision and implementation of the
health sector component. Its primary responsibilities in. the Ministry of Health's response to HIV/AIDS
are:
1.     Technical orientation and organization of prevention and clinical support to the Health Units of
the DNS
2.     Coordination of technical implementation of M OH activities
3.     Coordination of technical support to NGOs and private sector partners
4.     Technical monitoring and evaluation, including epidemiological surveillance
5.    Identification of priorities for funding in the annual workplans
Within the DNS, the STD/HIV/AIDS Program has the following responsibilities:
1.     Supervision of VCT centers and home-based care.
2.     Supervision of the care of the sick, keeping in mind the rules for the prevention of vertical
transmission of HIV and the treatment of opportunistic infections in PLWHA.
3.     Supervision of the care of people with STDs
4.     Overseeing the distribution of IEC materials
5.     Evaluation of behavior studies undertaken at the sentinel posts
6.     Sensitization training and IEC for the Ministry's own staff
7.     Coordination with DPC in order to use the information obtained, including this information in
MOH's action plans to combat HIVAIDS
Directorate of Human Resources (DRH)
The Director of Human Resources is responsible for the implementation of training activities of
the Ministry. These training programs will build capacity among health care workers to improve services
for prevention as well as treatment of HIV/AIDS related illnesses.
The DRH will report to the DNS on the technical aspects of program impl ementation. The DRH
will present quarterly reports to the DNS through the project coordinator. The DRH will report to the
DPC on any programmatic or managerial problems encountered during implementation.
The Directorate for Administration and ManaRement (DAG)
DAG is responsible for management of state budget funds and will provide and manage
counterpart funds for the project. It will provide reports on the status of counterpart fund allocations and
quarterly releases of funds for the project activities. DAG will also provides support in logistics
management and procurement of supplies. They will be responsible for providing reports on the status
of medical supplies and distribution. These reports are due in the last week of each month following the
initiation of quarterly program implementation. These Quarterly reports will be submitted to the DPC for
use in program progress meetings with the Minister and the Minister's Advisory Board.
Primary responsibilities include logistics management and supplies management (including
distribution of supplies); support GACOPI in procurement. Drugs and condoms will be procured by
GACOPI with assistance from CMAM. DAG is also responsible for maintenance of medical equipment.
The Agency for Drues and Medical SunDlies (CMAM)
- 71 -



CMAM is part of the DNS, it will provide support to GACOPI in the procurement of drugs,
condoms, and medical supplies. CMAM also handles the logistics management of the drugs. It will be
responsible for reports on the status of drug supplies and distribution. It will submit quarterly reports to
the DNS, DPC, the Minister and the CCM. Primary responsibilities include: a) planning and
coordination for the procurement of drugs, condoms, and medical supplies; b) supplies management and
distribution for drugs.
NGOs and Private Sector.
Civil society agencies, such as NGOs and private sector actors, will be involved in the execution
of health related interventions. They will either be contracted by the Ministry of Health to implement
specific activities or they may apply for funding under the civil society facility.
These specialized health services related activities include:
1.    Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT)
2.     Home-based care
3.     Day hospitals (including nutrition care)
4.     Treatment of Sexually Transmitted Infections
5.     Preventing Mother to Child Transmission (MTCT)
MOH contracting of NGOs and private sector firrns and consultants to execute health related
interventions. The MOH may contract NGOs, private sector firms or individual consultants to carry out
specific activities. Such contracts will be govemed by IDA guidelines for consultants.
NGOs executing health service related subprojects through the Community and Civil Society
Initiatives. NGOs may apply for funding from the Community and Civil Society Initiatives component
of the project for health service related activities. These services will include those listed above under
NGOs and Private Sector: treatment of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), tuberculosis, HAART for
health care staff and for prevention of mother-to-child-transmission; and, voluntary, testing and
counseling.
All proposals under US$ 20,000 will be reviewed and approved at the province in accordance
with the procedures outlined for appraisal of Civil Society applications by CNCS Civil Society Liaison
Officer, and approval by the provincial technicalreview committeecouncil as per the CCSI component
guidelines. The Provincial Director of Health is a member of the provincial technical council. In
addition, The provincial technical council review committee will ensure that such proposals are in
compliance with Government policy on health and HIV/AIDS. Standards and treatment guidelines of the
Government will be applied for all health service related activities. The contract for these activities will
included an annex that specifies they technical supervision required and the relevant MOH office
responsible for the supervision. The Provincial Coordinator will liaise with the Provincial Director of
Medical Services to ensure that the technical supervision is carried out on a regular basis.
All proposals above the level of US$ 20,000 will be reviewed by the CNCS Civil Society Liaison
Officer in the nucleo and sent to the CNCS national Civil Society Coordinator, with copies to the
provincial technical council. The Civil Society Coordinator will identify whether the proposal includes a
specific health service as set out above, and indicate this on the evaluation form provided for each
application to the national technical council. Should the national technical council member responsible
for Health determine this application should be forwarded to the MOH provincial review committee and
- 72 -



recommended to the national review committee for approval. These proposals will be forwarded to the
MOH for technical review. The application will be sent to the MOH for technical review with a copy
sent to the national technical council. The MOH should conduct the technical review within a period of
30 days. Once the application is cleared by the MOH, the MOH will inform the national technical
council which will review the application and approve funding. These health services specific proposals
will be required to comply with Government policy on health and HIV/AIDS. Standards and treatment
guidelines of the Government will be applied for all such related activities. Following approval by the
national technical council for funding, the proposals will be forwarded to the national review committee
for approval of funding. A tripartitate contract will be signed between the NGO, the Ministry of Health
and the CNCS for execution of the activity. The contract will specify technical supervision required and
the relevant MOH office responsible for the supervision. Where the MOH does not approve the proposal
on technical grounds, detailed reasons for rejection must be sent in writing by the MOH to the applicant
within one week of the decision, copying the CNCS national technical council.
Component Monitoring and Evaluation
The Ministry of Health plays a key role, not ordy in the epidemiological surveillance of the
disease, but also overall monitoring and evaluation
DPC
The DPC has overall responsibility for the coordination of monitoring and evaluation activities
and the management of information generated thorough monitoring and evaluation activities. The DPC
will consolidate this information with the epidemiological surveillance data provided by the
Epidemiological Unit (Gabinete de Epidemiologia) of DNS. A consolidated monitoring and evaluation
report should be produced quarterly following initiation of program implementation. These reports will
be used in programn progress meetings with the Minister and the CCM.
An annual monitoring and evaluation report will be produced by DNS and DPC in partnership
with the CNCS. This report will be produced annually in the month of May. The DPC will be
responsible for dissemination of this annual report among relevant actors. This report should be
distributed by DPC to all implementing agents and managers associated with MOH activities within the
following month.
Primary responsibilities include:
1.    M&E on macro indicators, general program M&E
2.     Receive reports from the Epidemiological Unit of DNS on epidemiological surveillance
3.     Consolidation of technical infonmation with general indicators and reporting
4.     Dissemination of M&E information to implermenters, supervisors and other stakeholders
DNS
The DNS is responsible for technical monitoring and evaluation of implementation. The
Epidemiological Unit of the DNS is responsible for the epidemiological surveillance of the disease. The
DNS should prepare quarterly reports and submit them to DPC. Reports produced by this unit will also
be shared with the DPC and with CNCS.
Primary responsibilities of the Epidemiological Unit include:
- 73 -



1.    Collection, processing, and feedback of information from the sentinel posts for STDs on a
quarterly basis and for HIV/AIDS on an annual basis
2.     Analysis of the results of the supervisory activities undertaken by the STD/HIV/AIDS Program
3.     Annual publishing of the Epidemiological Bulletin
Coordination with CNCS.
In order to ensure the most successful outcomes, it is important that the CNCS and MOH
coordinate closely. The Ministry has designated the Project Manager from DNS as the focal point for the
coordination. The focal Point will meet on a quarterly basis with the CNCS for updates on the status of
the project and the overall national response.
Primary areas of coordination include:
1.    Review of the planned activities and their relationship to the overall plans of MOH and CNCS;
2.    Coordination of prevention activities and messages at the different levels of HIV/AIDS
programming;
3.    Review, analysis and evaluation of the work of NGOs (especially those NGOs involved in
health-related activities);
4.     Coordination of the procurement of goods and materials; and,
5.     Supervision, monitoring and evaluation of health related activities of public and civil society
groups.
Partnering and or cofinancing with other donors
The IDA funded project support to the health sector will complement existing and future Government
and donor commitments in the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The strategic selection of the four
central provinces for the institutional strengthening under the Ministry of Health is complementary to
what the other donors are doing in the Northern and Southern Provinces.
Project Component 5 - US$6.00 million
Institutional Develooment for Program Manaeement
Component Objective
The CNCS is one of two Implementing Agencies for the IDA funded project, the other being the
Ministry of Health. Project Management for the Health Component is dealt with under Component 4.
Under Component 5, the expected outcome is that the Secretariat to the CNCS (CNCS) has the capacity
to carry out project management. This includes overall coordination of the National Aids Program and
fiduciary oversight responsibilities for Components 1,2,3 and 5 of the Mozambique HIV/AIDS Response
Project financed by IDA. The impact of CNCS management of the Program is reduction of the spread
and mitigation of the impact of HIV/AIDS in Mozambique.
Component Outputs
*      Prepare the consolidated annual work programs and budgets for the MAP project
*      Produce the required FMR reports that evidence appropriate financial management, procurement
and technical monitoring of the program.
- 74 -



*      Ensure the program is carried out according to the CNCS Operations Manual
*      Regularly supervise, monitor, evaluate and report on project activities to the relevant government
institutions and to the World Bank as stipulated in the Grant Agreement
*      Ensure that project financed activities are carried out in accordance with high professional
standards and in accordance with the agreed objectives
*      Coordinate project activities with other public sector ministries and civil society implementing
agencies and project beneficiaries
*      Liaise with external donors to ensure coordination of activities
*      Develop and implement CNCS operating procedures
*      Supervise CNCS staff and evaluate staff performamce on a regular basis, at least once a year
*      Identify and procure training needs for CNCS staff
*      Liaise with the World Bank on a regular basis on all project related activities, including the
planning and preparation of Bank Missions
*      Coordinate the supervision requirements of the government
Component Inputs
*      Assessments required to identify functional responsibilities of the CNCS, assess staffing and
training needs and conduct perfornance evaluations throughout implementation.
*      CNCS Contract Staff necessary to produce the outputs at provincial and national level.
* *    Training of CNCS Staff and Implementing Agencies to ensure the functions are carried out
effectively.
*      Development of systems and procedures necessary to carry out the functions specified.
*      Goods and equipment necessary to carry out the functions specified.
*      Consultants to provide technical assistance to CNCS to support the effective coordination and
fiduciary management of the program.
*      Procurement of contracts required to fulfill fiduciary responsibilities such as external audit and
others to be determined.
Implementation Mechanisms or Systems
These mechanisms that will enable funds to flow and be reported on will be developed in the operations
manual and accompanying manuals. These include the financial management manuals, CNCS
Administrative manual and Monitoring and Evaluation manual.
Implementation Arrangements
The CNCS Secretariat (CNCS) is the executing arm of the Conselho Nacional do Combate a Sida. Its
responsibilities are to coordinate the national program in all its aspects. The specific mandate of the
CNCS is set out in decree 10/2000. In addition to a national headquarters in Maputo, it is a decentralized
structure with 10 subnational offices (nucleos), one in each province and one for the city of Maputo. The
Secretariat itself is funded directly by the national budget from GOM resources, according to the initial
decree. However, it is clear that additional resources are necessary for the CNCS to carry out its mandate.
The CNCS is one of two implementing agencies for the [DA Grant, the other being the Ministry of
Health. Project management for the health component is dealt with under Component 4. Under
Component 5, the expected outcome is that the CNCS has significantly improved its capacity to
coordinate the National HIV/AIDS Program and carry out project management. This includes overall
- 75-



planning, budgeting and coordination of the National Aids Program, catalyzing greater involvement by
society in the HIV/AIDS response, channeling of funds to implementing agents and monitoring of
program execution to ensure compliance with Program objectives and fiduciary responsibilities. A major
objective of the project is to build the capacity of the CNCS provincial nucleos to undertake
responsibility for planning, mobilizing and channeling resources, coordinating and monitoring of
HIV/AIDS activities in a particular province.
Capacity building efforts to strengthen CNCS are being carried out in partnership with other donors,
particularly USAID and UNDP. Donors are supporting CNCS in various ways, including (i) design and
implementation of a financial system for the program (USAID financing an international management
consulting firm as a contracted-in financial management service), (ii) establishment of a common pooling
mechanism for channeling donor funds to civil society and communities (IDA may consider joining this
pool for component I at the MTR once procedures can be appropriately harmonized), (iii) design of a
database to capture information on all HIV/AIDS activities country-wide, (iv) establishment of a
monitoring and evaluation system design to track implementation and enable leaming from the program
and (v) support for additional staffing and training (UNDP program of training and financing of UN
Volunteers). However, it is clear that institutional capacity to channel large amounts of funds to multiple
agencies is a complex and demanding task. CNCS already had systems in place and was improving these
in order to cope with the challenge. However, the CNCS and World Bank will review the workload,
disbursement rates and other potential problems on an ongoing basis and discuss alternatives such as
contracting out at mid-term review or sooner as deemed necessary.
The component has five subcomponents as follows:
Subcomponent (i): Strengthening organizational arrangements andfinancial management ($3.7 million)
This subcomponent seeks to build the institutional capacity of the CNCS in respect of adequate and
appropriate staffing and operations to fulfill its legally mandated program and project specific fiduciary
responsibilities effectively and efficiently. Key output indicators here are:
*      No. implementing agents participating in program
*      Value of funds channeled to implementing agencies
*     No. programs funded
*      Unqualified financial audit of CNCS or appropriate follow up action taken
These are supported by the following activities and inputs:
*      Support for additional program staff in the following areas (i) Program officer (ii) Procurement
Officer (iii) Accountant (iv) M&E Officer (long term consultants/contract staff)
*      Support for relevant technical assistance to build institutional capacity (consultants)
*      Support for revision of institutional structure (consultants)
*      Support for development of operations manual (consultants)
*      Support for incremental operating costs incurred by the project (operating costs)
*      Support for incremental goods and equipment required to manage the program (goods and
equipment)
*      Support for short term expert consultancies to address specific issues during the project lifetime
(short term consultancies)
An institutional assessment along with an associated implementation and training plan is key to the
success of the program and this component in particular. As a result, there may need to be various
iterations of the assessment in order to provide the necessary quality of recommendations and their
implementation before effectiveness.
- 76 -



Subcomponent (ii): Strengthening M&E ($0.4 7 million)
This subcomponent will support the further development of an effective M&E system. The CNCS itself
will be responsible for financial monitoring and program monitoring but will coordinate with the
Ministry of Health and other specialists in respect of information flows, analysis and use of
epidemiological, behavioral and research data. CNCS and the nucleos in particular will be responsible for
collecting and disseminating the minimum set of useful indicators in order to learn from experience and
adjust strategies and fund flows accordingly. Key output indicators here are:
*      All recipients submit reports according to the M&E system or receive follow up action
*      learning workshops held in each province per annum
*      fiduciary reports presented to funding agencies on a timely and accurate basis
These are supported by the following activities and inputs:
*      Support to the design and establishment of the M&E system (consultants, goods and equipment)
*      Support for the implementation of financial and program monitoring (training, consultants, goods
and equipment)
*      Support for learning from M&E (workshops, training)
Subcomponent (iii): Formulation of a national communications strategy($ 0.96 million)
Mozambique has a number of IEC activities underway but these have not been coordinated in a strategic,
consistent or coherent manner. The project will support existing processes to develop a national
communications strategy and to provide resources for the consolidation of existing materials and
development of new IEC materials and media-based advocacy. The national communications strategy
should include information regarding the national program objectives and resources available as well as
define a strategic approach to IEC. The subcomponent will also provide support for the development of
IEC materials and media that can be used by implementing agencies for reaching out to key target
groups.
Key output indicators here are:
*      A national communications strategy developed and in place
*      Database of existing materials in place
*      At least 10 new IEC materials developed for target groups
*     At least 10 new media programs developed and disseminated
These are supported by the following activities and inputs:
*      Support to the process of development and testing of a national communications strategy
(workshops, consultants, pilot subprojects, training)
*      Support for the design of specific IEC materials aimed at target groups (consultants, goods and
equipment)
*      Support for the implementation of advocacy-related media programs (consultants)
Subcomponent (iv) Capacity buildingfor the CNCS Secretariat ($0.5 7 million)
The CNCS will require initial and ongoing training in order to ensure its staff have the skills and
competences to undertake their responsibilities and be up to date in respect of knowledge on HIV/AIDS.
Key output indicators here are:
*      Detailed training plan developed for CNCS staff
*      All staff receive training on the Operations and Administrative Manuals
*     All financial management staff receive training on the Financial Management system
*      A minimum of two weeks of training received per staff member per year
*      Key staff attend relevant regional or international courses
- 77 -



These are supported by the following activities and inputs:
*      Support for the development of a training plan (consultants)
*      Training activities conducted on an annual basis for all staff (training)
*      Support for study tours, workshops and seminars (training)
Subcomponent (v) Creation of a Supportive Regulatory Environment ($ 0.2 million)
A number of laws and regulations in existence in Mozambique will require adaptation in order to support
the reduction of discrimination and reduction of stigma of people living or affected by HIV/AIDS. A
number of new laws or regulations may also need to be researched and prepared for submission to
law-making authorities. In both cases, advocacy will be required as well as mechanisms to ensure that
once in place, these instruments will be disseminated effectively. Key output indicators here are:
*      key relevant legislation adjusted or prepared to respond to HIV/AIDS issues
*      key relevant legislation disseminated to target groups
These are supported by the following activities and inputs:
*      Research into relevant laws or regulations to amend (consultants)
*      Research and preparation of potential new legal or regulatory instruments (consultants)
*      Support for dissemination of new legal or regulatory instruments (consultants, training, goods)
*      Support activities related to advocacy of new or arnended laws and regulations (consultants,
training, other services)
Partnering and/or Co-financing with Other Donors for Program Management
The CNCS is responsible for coordinating the national aids program for which the World Bank project
will provide one source of funds. The World Bank project will support the strengthening of institutional
capacity required to carry out coordination activities under the National AIDS Program as a whole as
well as specific fiduciary responsibilities for the World Bank funds management. As far as possible,
procedures and reporting requirements will be harmonized across sources of finance in order to minimize
the management burden on the CNCS. In particular, the World Bank will seek to work with other donors
to harmonize procedures related to civil society activities. At some time in the future, it is envisaged that
procedures will be sufficiently developed and tested that many donors will agree to merge funds for these
activities into a pooling mechanism. However, until such time funds for World Bank funded civil society
activities will be channeled and reported upon separately.
Efforts will be made with CNCS Secretariat and other donors to have Supervision missions to review
implementation of the program take place concurrently, to enable all issues to be jointly addressed and
resolved to the satisfaction of all stakeholders.
- 78-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOZAMBIQUE: HIVAiDS Response Project
7.                             2; ~~     ~ "IL-ca-1 U  .EFofeign   (TtI
* , '. i;?    By! ProjectZCos  i Component;  .         .1 :'US   '1.US  i |io  is |
Community and Civil Society Initiatives                 20.80        6.80        27.60
Capacity Building for Civil Society                      1.30        3.90         5.20
Government Multisectoral Response                        3.00         3.70        6.70
Scaling Up Health Sector Services                        4.90        11.10       16.00
Institutional Development for Program Management         1.70         3.90        5.60
Total Baseline Cost                                     31.70        29.40        61.10
Physical Contingencies                                  0.20         0.50         0.70
Price Contingencies                                     0.70         1.50         2.20
Total Project Costsl            32.60        31.40        64.00
Total Financing Required            32.60        31.40        64.00
41 i0i  _r   .  . ,,   1 .4  -.1. ~ ~  ~      a-i..  ~   4
-- .u9fAL7 | #>t 1al e r>M;t t9 ,.t .+; tR q 1 1  -oca   --Tota iY'-'-)
;   ' iS                       ~    ~P'rojectzc:otB e  . , US'.$miio n _ 'US_ o-i'_  ,. Sm''i_lio___
Civil Works                                               0.40          0.10         0.50
Goods and Equipment                                       1.50         11.80        13.30
Consultants Services                                      3.70         11.30        15.00
Training                                                  1.80          1.20         3.00
Operating Costs                                           1.20          3.00         4.20
Subprojects                                              24.00          4.00        28.00
Total Project Costs     32.60        31.40        64.00
Total Financing Required    32.60         31.40        64.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 5.3 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 58.7 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 0% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 79 -



Annex 4
Economic Analysis
MOZAMBIQUE: HIV/AIDS Response Project
The "Economic Analysis of HIV/AIDS" contained in the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the
Africa Region (MAP) Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 20727 AFR, Annex 5) and the Second
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP2)(APL) for the Africa Region (Report No. P7497 AFR),
provides the economic justification for the Mozambique HIV/AIDS Response Project. As it indicates,
H1V/AIDS undermines the three major determinants of economic growth, namely physical, human and
social capital. Due to its long incubation period ( 7-10) years, the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic is
likely to be drawn out over time with the rate of growth of physical and human capital and the efficiency
of social capital declining slowly in parallel with the maturing of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Over time,
the behaviour of GDP would reflect a similar gradual reduction of the rate of growth, rather than a
sudden fall in the GDP per capita.
An economic analysis of the impact of the H1V/AIDS epidemic in Mozambique is provided in Section
E. 1 of this PAD. This analysis concludes that, due to the long time lags between infection and onset of
AIDS, the AIDS case projections to 2010 are, barring rapid advance in medical technologies, essentially
progranuned into the system, since nearly all of the people projected to die in this decade, including the
latter parts, are already HIV positive. The analysis indicates that these impending AIDS cases and deaths
could have large economic impacts. Projecting to 2010, per capita GDP growth rates are between 0.3 %
and 1.0% lower than in a fictional no-AIDS scenario. GDP per capita has grown an average of 6.4
percent per annum between 1995 and 2002. With GDP per capita in 2002 estimated at about US$ 210,
and some 17 million inhabitants, the average annual value of the economic loss is equivalent to between
US $ 11 million and US$ 37 million in 2002, rising gradually as the population and GDP increase. The
major sources of this slowdown in growth are (1) reduced productivity growth, (2) reduced population
growth and human capital accumulation, and (3) reduced physical capital accumulation. All three of
these effects are significant though the productivity effect is the strongest. In addition, impacts on school
enrollments are potentially very large with implications for growth rates in the latter part of this decade
and beyond.
Due to a variety of knowledge gaps, a high degree of uncertainty must be associated with these results.
However, if AIDS indeed reduces per capita economic growth for extended periods of time as the
analysis suggests, then initiatives that effectively combat AIDS will pay handsomely in purely economic
terms. Given the nearly decade long time lags between infection and death, policy actions can be divided
into two categories: (1) reactive policies to face the ramifications of the pandemic in the current decade
and (2) preventive policies designed to reduce HIV/AIDS prevalence in future decades.
Under reactive policies, education policy was explicitly considered. The scenario which analyses the
implications of taking extra efforts in education, looks at the impact on GDP which would result from a
strong effort to maintain school enrollment rates, graduation rates, and educational quality. The effect of
such policies results in a 0.6% increment to GDP growth by 2010, relative to the base scenario (with
AIDS). This increment is due to the enhanced productivity of a more skilled workforce. This increment
is likely to persist well into the future due to much larger school enrollments in 2010. Assuming this
increment persists to 2020, net present value calculations justify very large incremental education
expenditure focussed on those aspects noted above (more than 5% of GDP per year from 2002 to 2010)
with linear phase out over the following three years.
- 80 -



Similarly, prevention is a worthwhile investment, even though its economic effects are only seen eight
years down the line. If successful preventive policies substantially reduce AIDS deaths in the next
decade -- and have an incremental effect on growth of 0.3% per annum between 2010 and 2020, the
lower end of the potential AIDS impact on per capita income, this outcome would justify large
expenditures on prevention -- in the order of 3% of GI)P per annum between 2002 and 2007, with a
linear phase out over the subsequent three years.
- 81 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: HIV/AIDS Response Project
Years Ending
June 2004- June 2008
To be filled in once project costing exercise finalized
| Year 1| Year 2    | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5| Year 6    | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          4.6       10.0      15.1      16.0      14.5                0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.6        0.9       1.3       0.7       0.4                 0.0
Total Project Costs         5.2      10.9      16.4       16.7      14.9       0.0      0.0
.Total Financing            5.2       10.9      16.4      16.7      14.9       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  4.4       9.3      14.2      14.7      13.2       0.0       0.0
Govemment                 0.6       1.2       1.7       1.2       0.8       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.2       0.4       0.5        0.8       0.9      0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    5.2       10.9      16.4      16.7      14.9      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 82 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
MOZAMBIQUE: HIVWAIDS Response Project
Procurement
Institutional Arrangements
The overall implementation arrangements for the project include the following: At the national level the
CNCS Executive Secretariat would coordinate implementation of all the activities fimded under the Bank
project. Under this umbrella, there would be two implementation agencies: (i) the Ministry of Health,
which would receive its funds directly from IDA via its own Special Account B, and would implement its
agreed work plan for the Health Sector component; and (ii) the Executive Secretariat, which would
manage the main Special Account A, to be used to fund implementation of the remaining components.
Project implementation, financial management, procurement, monitoririg and evaluation would be
operated through the institutional management and accounting systems of the Executive Secretariat and
of the Ministry of Health.
The Secretariat has defined positions and is hiring staff to carry out the procurement process to be used
in each of the components, in a manner consistent with the appropriate Bank guidelines. The Secretariat
intends to rely on the office of GACOPI in the Ministry of Health for any large procurement procedure,
including any international competitive bidding. A Procurement Plan has been prepared as part of the
draft Project Implementation Plan -- and procedures and thresholds for each item have been set out in the
draft Operational Manual. A large share of the project will be used as grants in support of a large number
of small community development subprojects, and will be subject to simplified procedures specified
under the procurement guidelines for such activities.
The implementation arrangements will be spelled out in the Project Operation Manual, which will clearly
define the responsibilities of each entity and delineations with respect to the procurement processing.
Basically, the recommended approach is that procurement resources, to be provided in each entity, will
be an integral part of the existing fiduciary institutionad setting, and that CNCS will be considered as a
beneficiary executing entity relying for certain type of procurement activities, including contracts
execution, on GACOPI. The CNCS will then be able to concentrate on its main role of coordination and
facilitation of the Programn. However, payments to the providers will be effected by the CNCS - the
budget holder for the four components -- on demand of and after certification by GACOPI. The filing of
the procurement documentation will be kept by and be in the custody of the entity where the processing
took place, including basis of the payments to the providers of services, works or goods.
Guidelines and Documents
A CPAR has just been completed and handed over to the Government. The agreed upon action plan
recommends to undertake an overhaul of the procurement system in terms of Institutional setting and
capacity, as well as Legal and Regulatory frameworks. In the meantime, no special exceptions, permits or
licenses need to be specified in the Grant documents for international competitive bidding since
Mozambique procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary
provisions of local regulations.
Goods financed under IDA will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD Loans
- 83 -



and IDA Credit (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999),
and Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard Evaluation Report will be used for both ICB and
NCB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally will be carried out in accordance with the
Mozambique's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that they assure economy,
efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines. For NCB
procedures, the Government gave assurance during negotiations that the following principles would be
adhered to: (i) all bids documentation would be in one envelope which would be opened in public; (ii) a
point system is not used for bid evaluation for works and methods used in evaluation of bids and the
award of contracts are made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (iii) any bidder is given
adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (iv) bid evaluation and
bidder qualification criteria are clearly specified in bidding/pre-qualification documents and not be
applied arbitrarily; (v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) no preference margin is
granted to domestic contractors and suppliers; (vii) award would be made to the lowest evaluated bidder
in accordance with predetermined and transparent methods; (viii) bid evaluation reports would clearly
state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid and (ix) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft
standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual are submitted to IDA and
found acceptable.
The procedures followed, and total aggregate amount for all shopping methods under the project will be
reviewed after six months of project operations. Depending on performance and the results of the review,
the total aggregate amount may be adjusted where necessary. Standard request forms and establishment
of guidelines for conduction the shopping methods (as per the June 9, 2000 Memorandum Guidance on
Shopping) should be prepared and included in the project's Manual of Procedures.
Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines
for the selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrower (January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999 and May 2002). The Standard Request for Proposals as developed by
the Bank will be used for the selection of consulting firms. Simplified contracts will be used for
short-term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months. The government, and the project staff were
briefed during negotiations about the features of the Consultant Guidelines, in particular with respect to
advertisement, bid opening and the various steps of IDA reviews.
Community participation in procurement will be based on the Bank Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement Procedures for Community-Based Investments. The Bank Guidelines for Simplified
Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments will be used in the design of
procurement under this aspect of the project. The CNCS/ES will be responsible for ensuring compliance
with these guidelines, and ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the
Bank and independent consultants appointed by the CNCS/ES. Simplified procurement and disbursement
procedures for community-based programs, including the positive list of items qualifying under this
component will be developed and included in the project's Manual of Procedures. The manual of
procedures will also include, procedures for IDA review thresholds for NGOs, private sector, and other
community initiatives.
The GACOPI will arrange to publish a General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project in the United
Nations Development Business (UNDB) and in local newspapers. The draft GPN will be submitted to
the Bank for prior review and approval. The GPN will be updated every year and submitted to IDA. The
update will show all outstanding ICB for goods and works contracts, as agreed with the Bank. All
consultancy assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more will be advertised in
the UNDB and in at least one national newspaper.  A procurement plan has been prepared and agreed
with the Bank. Three months prior to the start of each fiscal year the Borrower will submit an updated
- 84 -



annual procurement plan.
Procurement Thresholds and Prior Review
Goods. The total cost of goods is estimated at US$13.5 million for the project. Procurement of goods
will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$150,000 equivalent or more per contract and
will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Preference for domestically
manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines. Contracts for vehicles,
bicycles, equipment and IEC materials locally available which cost more than US$50,000 but less than
US$150,000 up to an aggregate amount of USD$0.5 million would be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement of instructional materials,
computers and accessories, office equipment, and off the shelf items IEC and other instructional
materials, computers and accessories, costing less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$250,000 equivalent will be procured through prudent Shopping and National Shopping in accordance
with provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Procurement of proprietary nature as
described in para 3.7 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000 equivalent, may be
procured directly from manufacturers and authorized local distributors according to procedures specified
in para 3.7 of the Guidelines.
To facilitate speedy procurement of items required urgently for institutional strengthening, drugs,
medical supplies, kits, and condoms may be procured fiom the United Nations Agencies (i.e. UJNFPA;
UNICEF; WHO; WFP; IAPSO) in accordance with paragraph 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. The
list of these items and their estimated value should be agreed upon with IDA as per approved
Procurement Plan.
Community and Civil Society Fund Subprojects. The project will finance HIV/AIDS-related
activities, such as IEC, awareness creation, training, HIV/AIDS prevention promotion, capacity building,
condoms and STI-kits distribution etc. Funding for these activities will be in the form of grants.
Community beneficiaries will contribute 10% in cash or in kind. Work programs under the proposals will
depend on applications received from communities, NGOs, line departments and private organizations
against a positive list of activities. It is not possible to determine the exact mix of goods, small works,
and services to be procured under these activities due to their demand driven nature. Therefore, the types
of expenditures to be financed under these activities will be grouped under a unique category of
expenditure (and disbursement): Subprojects. Their procurement will be carried out in accordance with
procedures laid down in the Operation Manual depending on the needs identified by communities.
Small Civil Works. No large Civil works are scheduled under the project's life. Small civil works related
to the rehabilitation of and minor extensions to existing constructions could be part of proposals for the
Fund's grant financing, or participating Ministries, but will not exceed a maximuni of US$ 15,000 per
proposal, up to an aggregate not to exceed US$ 500,000. Since those small civil works are scattered
throughout the country are unlikely to attract foreign contractors, they would be awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited to bid and awarded under lump
sum, fixed-priced contracts. The invitation to bid will include a detailed description of the work
including basic relevant drawings were applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price quotation for the required works, provided he demonstrates he has the experience
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Consultants Services. The consulting services required will be mostly in the areas of HIV/AIDS
education, IEC/BCC, training, community development, procurement and financial management,
- 85 -



monitoring and evaluation, information dissemination, auditing. The exact type of consultancy, budgets,
and applicable procurement methods will be discussed and agreed annually during joint reviews. In
general, consultants will be hired through competition based on: (i) Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) among qualified short-listed firms, by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining
quality and cost evaluation, by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores; (ii) Least-Cost Selection
(LSC) in accordance with paragraph 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, will be used for audit
contracts costing less than US$100,000; the firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided its
technical proposal received the minimum mark; (iii) Selection based on consultant's qualifications may
be used for the selection of research institutes; training institutions, and for other assignments that meet
criteria set out in para.3.7 of the guidelines; or Selection of Individual Consultants (which consist in
comparing at least 3 qualified individuals) for assignments that meet criteria set out in paragraph 5.1, 5.2,
and 5.3 of the Guidelines.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants,
short-list for contracts estimated to cost under US$ 150,000 or equivalent, may be comprised entirely of
national consultants (in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines),
provided that a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least 3) are available at competitive costs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed the interest, they will not be excluded form consideration. The
Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) as developed by the World Bank will be used for requesting
proposals, and for selection and appointment of consulting firms. Simplified contracts may be used for
short-term assignment (less than 6 months).
Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the basis of annual
programs that will identify the general framework of training or similar activities for the year, including
the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number of participants, and cost estimates. Training
outside the country are subject to IDA approval. No "degree" training will be eligible for training.
Post-reviews of in-country training will be conducted from time to time to review the selection of
institutions/course contents/trainees and justification thereof, and cost incurred.
IDA Reviews
IDA-financed contracts for goods and works above the threshold value of US$150,000 equivalent will be
subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Draft standard bidding document format for NCB will be
reviewed and agreed upon with IDA. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for recruitment of
consulting firms and individual consultants estimated to cost less than US$200,000 and US$50,000
equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior review will not apply to the Terms of Reference
of such contracts regardless of value, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature, or to
amendments of contracts rising the contract value above the prior review threshold. For consultants
contracts estimated to cost more than US$200,000, opening the financial envelopes will not take place
prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
*' - ?  , }. ' |' ;;  '''  _Procurement,eth       . d.            l
.':Ex idItur.eCategor i   |-           -;     NCB          Other2       N'         6tii Cdst|:
-86 -



1. Works                              0.00             0.00           0.20          0.00         0.20
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.16)        (0.00)       (0.16)
2. Goods                              12.30            0.50           0.60          0.00         13.40
(11.44)           (0.40)        (0.40)        (0.00)      (12.24)
3. Services                            0.00             0.00          18.00         0.00         18.00
Consultants and Training              (0.00)           (0.00)        (14.40)        (0.00)      (14.40)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00             0.00          5.50          0.00         5.50
Operating Costs                       (0.00)           (0.00)         (4.40)       (0.00)       (4.40)
Grants to NGOs and                     0.00             0.00          27.00          0.00        27.00
Communities for Subprojects           (0.00)           (0.00)        (23.80)        (0.00)      (23.80)
Total                              12.30             0.50          51.30          0.00        64.10
(11.44)           (0.40)        (43.16)        (0.00)     (55.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 87 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
,,  -i         .      ,     ' - Selection.'Method.~-;:;
IConsu ltant S~erices                         'qv-             .   .:c       '
~?exip;edit'ure Category  LCS  B      SF".   LCS'~~C          OhrNB~          s
A. Firms              3.02    0.00    0.00    0.50    2.20     9.12    0.00    14.84
(2.40)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.50)  (1.80)  (7.37)  (0.00)  (12.07)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.16    0.00     3.16
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (2.33)  (0.00)   (2.33)
Total  3.02    0.00    0.00    0.50    2.20    12.28   0.00     18.00
(2.40)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.50)  (1.80)   (9.70)  (0.00)  (14.40)
Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 88 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
, - . -s; w .- e d'I*j,:xCotrcYau l-VfWvIB.14p1;, .i v              1 ,-ContiricteiSubject to
,.-^f  z  > *! ' 'l ,-> .T,reshld' .' .-  , iProdurernet'   i.Prior Revie
;Expenditur.e Categry.;                             ._IVlo .  ; Mothid'-  i -  (Us$millidns)
1. Works                 Maximum 15,000 per          Quotations              US$ 0.50
contract                                    (Post Review)
2. Goods                     > 150,000                  ICB               US$ 12.0 million
(Prior Review)
>50,000 and <150,000           NCB                US$ 0.3 million
(Post Review)
First 2 NCB contracts         NCB                 (Prior Review)
< 50,000               Quotations           US$ 0.25 rnillion
.__ _ _  _(Post Review)
3. Services
Firms                        > 200,000                 QCBS               US$ 2.4 million
Financial Audits                                                          (Prior review)
Financial Audits              >100,000                 LCS                US$ 0.5 million
Other Services                                                              (Post review)
>100,000                  CQ                 US$ 2.2 million
Individuals                                                                (Post review)
>50,000          Qualifications and 3 CVs   US$ 1.4 million
(Prior review)
<50,000          Qualifications and 3 CVs   US$ 1.6 million
(Post review)
4. Subproject Grants   First 10 Subprojects over       N.A.                 Prior review
US$ 10,000 each
Subsequent subprojects                              Post Review
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 14.4 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-reviewlaudits)
Procurement Risk Assessment:
In accordance with operational procedures, the mission carried out the mandatory "Assessment of
Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement". In this case, the assessment concerned the two
entities that will be in charge of procurement, namely the CNCS Secretariat and the MOHIGACOPI, who
will each have a Special Account. The summary assessments for each entity, the action plans and the
setting of the Prior Review Thresholds are given in Annex. The overall assessment in terms of risk rating
- 89-



it is High for the CNCS since it did not have the opportunity to carry out procurement processing of large
amounts - which is could be explained by the fact that CNCS is meant to be an implementing body but
rather a facilitator -- and in a fashion which conforms to the international standards. It should thus be
strengthened with the necessary, staff who will be take care of certain parts of the procurement activities,
to be carried under the project components (components 1, 2, 3 and 5) under CNCS purview as a whole.
On the other hand GACOPI the risk rating is Average since it has had an extensive experience with large
sized contracts in various categories (Works, Goods and Services) during the implementation of the
Health Sector project. It is thus the mission recommendation to use this entity's skills not only to
implement the procurement under the Health component (#4) but to also provide assistance for the
implementation of the contracts above the prior review thresholds under the other four components
whose management is under the purview of the CNCS.
In terms of resources, the CNCS will need to recruit a qualified procurement officer, with an assistant,
who is as much as possible familiar with Bank Group procurement procedures and who is able to
organize the supervision and monitoring of the regional level activities - essentially with respect to the
CCSI Facility. This officer will also take care of the procurement that are needed to be carried out for
the implementation of CNCS' components, for the contracts estimated under the Prior review Threshold.
At the provincial level, to avoid adding another staff to the existing team, it is recommended to train the
administrator in the simplified procurement methods to be used for the Facility, and to give the task of
overseeing the procurement at the provincial level under the general guidance of the procurement officer
at the center. These arrangements will have to be spelled out in the Project Operation manual as well as
in the Administrative and Financial Management Manual of the CNCS Secretariat, under preparation by
the Consultant financed by USAID. As to GACOPI, the action plan recommendation is to support the
continuation of the technical assistance provided by a firm for a period of 18 months of fully resident
expert, backed from headquarter when needed for specialized activities, after which the firm will provide
assistance on demand for the remaining 40 months - say for an average of 0.5 week per month. The
health component will have its own section in the Project Operation Manual, spelling out clearly the
internal arrangements as well as those with the CNCS Secretariat with regard to the support provided for
procurement in particular and fiduciary in general activities.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions
Once every 6 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits) . Post Reviews
will apply to one contract out of four (10) not subject to prior review. Also the first two (2) NCB
contracts and five (5) subprojects contracts will be subject to prior review. Documents related to
procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the Executing Agency for ex-post
reviews by auditors and IDA supervision missions.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agencys Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 90 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
MOZAMBIQUE: HIV/Ai DS Response Project
Financial Manazement
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
The purpose of this section is to delineate the procedures manage funding sources within both the CNCS
and MOH systems. Full financial management procedures are to ensure that funds are used for the
purposes intended, as approved, and with due care for efficiency, effectiveness and economy. They
include information on planning and budgeting, disbursement, recording financial transactions, reporting
financial transactions, and auditing procedures. These procedures are detailed in the CNCS Financial
Management manuals. Please refer to these manuals for the policies, procedures, relevant forms, and
reporting mechanisms.
Financial Management Structure
There are three principal sources of financial resources used to combat HIV/AIDS in Mozambique.
These include the State Budget, the Common Fund (a pooling facility for funds from certain donors), and
Other Funds (such as the IDA resources, and other designated and earmarked funds). Each of these three
funding sources will be managed with separate bank accounts. Specific procedures for the financial
management of the resources of the state budget are determined by the Ministry of Planning and Finance.
A detailed manual, prepared by a reputable international consulting firm, has been prepared for the
Conmmon Fund resources. Resources obtained under Other Funds will be managed according to the
guidelines provided by each funding source -- as will be the case for IDA resources, to be used following
World Bank guidelines on financial management and disbursement.
CNCS Annual Planning and Budgeting Cyde
The CNCS has an annual cycle for the preparation of the National CNCS Budget. This planning process
includes input from the External Partners working group and from subproject implementers themselves.
The financial year of the Government of Mozambique (January to December) will be followed.
- 91 -



Work- Planning
D..esw A&.-
S~~~~R -_yCNSE
B    raiobesmsPoc Nulei                              CCS- fac
ubminosin ofths t Eeutv Scrtijt
I                eview ofyh rvnilbdesb teEeuieSceait  CNCS ES   Pann n
rNCSBopose budgets andadoptedpriorities
Althougtheternain partneris, Minia,struoclproincts,plctin andrpresnativa,adapoarses ofcuCivi
a qurterybsoiet and the  Priatioaeven Scor will thl beanvtest atthe Budetoesion.ia level_througouttheyear
E      heEeuieSceaitwlConsolidateofifainaotana thpeNainals dibudgeetndth CNCSI EScPlaning mandge
xecutivjecto S   xecrarewl prebusent tsi the NatioalBuge toca theBard.  iac  ni n xc
CNCSpa f1or approva.Scy.
F      otesalPartiner wil tho itan Anualet Reiewo Meetingcoeiew progrets  ExtePrnal Paortinertorkn
nesibwrojects Provnded.                              grou yth xctveSceaia.CC  SPlannn
D  uigti    ot,te Executive Secretariayilreetsohapoall invitia budgetsat CNCS ES Planning and
Extemal partners, asibaistfry focndpingtreques foprethenfolloingvear  FinaneiUil
|~~~~~~~~~~ 92 -a 
Soit andmu theUe Prvt Setrwl eivtdt h ugtssin
E   h  xctv ertra ilcnoiaeteNtoa Budgt- latnd h     NSE    lnn n
GoEnd dsJubpojct L ndd                                 gru
Extemal Parndr as basis fo nigrqetfrte olwn er        ieUi
j0;<-~~~~ 92 



xternal Partners will be expected to give an indication of their External Partners and
ontribution for the next financial year. This will also apply to the  Government of
Government of Mozambique.                                      Mozambique
G      Submission of the Estimates to the Ministry of Planning and Finance.  CNCS ES Planning and
_______ _______________________________________Finance Unit
H      Executive Secretariat to present the agreed National CNCS Budget to the CNCS ES Planning and
External Partners working group for endorsement.               Finance Unit
Presentation of the National CNCS Budget agreed with the Extemal  CNCS ES
Partners to the Board of CNCS.
I      External Partners will issue disbursements under the new budget,  External Partners
according to the guidelines which govern the use of each funding
source.
NB. Contribution for the last six months is due by end of July the
following year.
Structuring the Annual Budget and Workplan
Each year CNCS will produce guidelines and criteria to prepare the work-plan. From the beginning the
following structure will be incorporated into the information and financial systems, as appropriate to
classify the information and prepare a suitable framework for reporting processes:
*      The head of the structure will be the Program.
*      The Program will be supported by different Donors through Projects
*      Each Project (e.g. IDA ...) is divided by Components and each Component by Sub-components.
*      Specific action will be reflected in Activities and for each activity Inputs (Items) will be needed.
*      Each Item will be classified under Project Exlpenditures Categories.
*      A group of items shall be consolidated in paclcages which will be procured under specific
Donors guidelines and methods.
Each Component's Coordinator in coordination with CNCS National Technical Councils will establish
criteria on funds pre-allocation strategy, eligible activities, reimbursable expenditures and co financing
percentages.
Finance Management Units
The Implementing Agent's Financial Management department is in charge of handling financial and
management procedures.
A Coordinator for Financial Management (CFM) will head the unit and she/he will have the
responsibility to carry out activities described above. Hie/she will be assisted by a group of persons.
As main tools to perform his/her work, CFM will have: 1) Operational Manual chapter; 2) Project
Information System; 3) Local Finance and Administrative Manuals.
The following table presents a relation of IDA project components, responsible bodies and comments
regarding their role:
- 93 -



I         Subprojects'        It is expected that each subproject will be leaded by a small management team
Management Teams    and one of its members will be responsible for accounting and finance
management.
GACOPI              Management of Health NGOs' contracts will be done by GACOPI
CNCS and Provincial  Trainings programmed under a national strategic plan will be done by CNCS ES.
Nucleis             Provincial training events will be managed by the Nucleis.
Ministries and      It is expected that each Ministry and Directorate will be supported by an
Provincial Directorates administrative unit and persons in charge of accounting and finance management.
IV       GACOPI              GACOPI will be responsible to provide a summary report of financial transactions
and reporting mechanisms to DPC on a monthly basis. These reports will be due in
the last week of the month, and they will be used by the DPC in their progress
reports to the Minister and the Minister's Advisory Board.
Primary responsibilities for the financial management of this program include
I . Management of bank accounts
2. Disbursements
3. Payments for eligible expenses
4. Financial progress reports and records and analysis
5. Audits
V         CNCS and Provincial  CNCS ES Financial and Administrative Officer will head the unit and she/he
Nucleis        will be responsibility to carry out finance management tasks. He/she will be
assisted by a group of persons.
As main tools to perform this work, CNCS ES has: 1) Operational Manual
chapter; 2) Project Information System that manages Technical and Financial
data; 3) Financial Manuals
Financial Management Procedures:
Under this project the CNCS will coordinate the implementation of all the components and activities
while MOH will directly implement the health component and CNCS and other agencies (other sector
ministries, NGOs, CBOs and civil society) will implement all other components.
As experience has been gained, the design and arrangements under these projects reflect the specificity of
the MAP, albeit some variations among projects based on the country-specific situation. The flows
remnain a main weakness in all complex project and therefore what follows puts special emphasis on the
flow of funds and informnation.
Flow of funds
One of the main functions of the CNCS is financial intermediation for the fight against HIV/AIDS. It
will, therefore, ensure that funds are made available quickly and accounted for properly. Some
modifications to the CNCS structure may be forthcoming in order to better match the organization to the
functions. A study is underway to define the appropriate shape that this organization should take.
However, notwithstanding changes in the organization, funds from IDA resources and from Govermnent
(for counterpart fund) will be channeled through special accounts and project accounts respectively as
described below.
To facilitate and sustain fast disbursement and accountability over funds under the proposed project,
three special accounts will be put in place - two to be opened and operated by the CNCS and one by the
MOH. The latter Special Account will be opened and operated by MOH for the Health sector component
of the project. As to the accounts for CNCS one will be dedicated to component one - Civil Society
- 94-



Initiative, and the second one will be operated by CNCS for remaining components. Counterpart funds
for the Health Component will be budgeted and disbursed by the MPF to the MOH. 'The MOH will
open and operate a Project Account to reflect the funds received and payments made for the project
purpose. All project related counterpart resources funded to or flowed through CNCS will be
deposited in a separate Project Account maintained and operated by CNCS.
Component I - the Community and Civil Society Initiatives
The Special Account-A will be dedicated for this component for better monitoring and follow-up, but
also for operational and fiduciary purposes. The Special Account-A will be opened by CNCS for
deposits of IDA funds Payments form this account will be by two signatures (exclusively with one
signature from block A and one from block B). Earmarked for this component and identified under the
schedule one of the agreement as disbursement category "Civil Society Sub-Project Grants". IDA funds
will be advanced to this account on the basis of estimated expenditures and expected disbursements for
civil society initiatives. Since the volume of initiatives are not yet known and this component is demand
driven, the CNCS will target a level of activity for the first year. This level will be revised in the second
and following years, as experience is gained and the pipeline of sub-projects is developed.
Funds for the Special Account-A will be advanced to each province for disbursement for approved
sub-projects to eligible executing agencies Applications for multi-provincial activities or large NGOs and
private enterprises will be approved at the CNCS-HQ. Funds for such sub-projects will be released,
periodically and directly by the HQ to the applicants without going through provincial nuclei. The
criteria and procedure for assessment of the eligibility of applicants and fundability of applications is
described in the Procedures manual for the component. IDA funds will finance up to 90% of the total
sub-project costs for CBOs and NGOs and up-to 80% for Intemational and National NGOs and private
finns. Counterpart fund for this component is provided by the recipients and/or beneficiaries. The 10%
contribution from small NGO/CBOs can be in kind or in cash. The trigger for recognition of expenditure
is defined as disbursement of the grant to the approved recipient. This does not mean that the monitoring
and ensuring that the funds are used properly and according to the approved application does not take
place. Systematic M&E and audits will ensure this and ex-post reviews will further verify the execution
of the sub-projects., provided subsequent accountability is rendered by the latter. Details and modalities
of this component will be documented in the operations rnanual.
NGOs and CBOs with sufficient experience and capacity will open a bank account for their sub-project
and will receive funds in the said account. Smaller applicants with insufficient experience and capacity
will be assisted by intermediaries who will manage the funds on their behalf and will account for funds.
Component 2 -- Capacity Building for Civil Society and 5 - Institutional Development for
Program Management
Components two ( Capacity building for the civil society), and five (Institutional Development for
Program Management) will be directly implemented by CNCS. These two components mainly consist of
contracts with NGOs and the CNCS's own capacity and operations. Most of these are expected to be
include consultancies, training, operating costs, and equipment and vehicle purchases, financed from IDA
funds at the appropriate disbursement rate (specified below).
Component 3 - Government Multi-Sectoral Response
Component three will be implemented by Public sector (M\inistries, Departments, and Agencies -
- 95 -



MDAs). Funding from IDA, through Special Account B (Special Account-B), and from Government,
through Project Account (PA) will be channeled through CNCS.
The Special Account-B and the PA will be opened and operated by CNCS to receive funds for IDA and
Government to fund the approved programs. Disbursement rates are set out below. A Government
contribution of between 14 and 20 % is sometimes required, depending on the item. This contribution
would be funded from the PA. After approval of a program for a MDA, funds will be advanced quarterly
(proportionally from each of the two above accounts). Further release of funds will be subject to proper
reporting and accountability from the recipient MDA. There are however some concerns about slow
flow of funds from head offices of ministries to their provincial Directorates. In order to mitigate this
risk, funds (from the Special Account B and PA) for approved provincial activities of directorates (to be
implemented at the provincial level) will be sent to CNCS provincial nuclei for disbursement to the
relevant Directorates on monthly basis. For this to be operational, MDAs' programs should be presented
by province. Similar to the funds for component one, these funds will also be kept in separate accounts.
The issue of counterpart fund and budgeting was discussed with the MPF and the directorate of Budget
confirmed that the HIV/AIDs counterpart requirements will be budgeted only under CNCS and MOH.
Component 4 - Strengthening and scaling up of the Health Sector Services
This component will be implemented by the ministry of Health. For this purpose, MOH will open and
operate a Special Account (Special Account-C) and a Project Account (PA) to receive funds from IDA
and the Government respectively. All procurement and contracting/spending related to this component
will be handled by GACOPI, the "Projects Management Unit" at the ministry. MOH will be directly
communicating with the Bank and MPF for this project. However, for the purpose of consolidation of
reports, a copy of all reports will be forwarded to the CNCS. Disbursement rates are set out below.
Flow of Information and reporting requirements
Information flow will be from bottom-up and in principle, the reverse of fund flows apply to flow of
information /reporting of financial transactions, financial positions, and physical progress. Each
recipient will have reporting obligations the details, content, and frequency of which will be fully
described in the operations manual. In addition to self reporting, monitoring and reporting will also take
place at two levels, by Provincial Nuclei and by external M&E teams in collaboration with internal and
external auditors. Financial and physical progress reports received by CNCA will be rolled-up and
summary reports with analysis will be produced by CNCS head office.
FMRs will be produced separately by MOH for the Health sector component and Special Account-C and
the CNCS for the rest of the project and Special Account -A and B. While the MOH does not have an
automated system, CNCS does have an MIS from which it will produce its share of reports. Both
implementers will submit the respective FMRs to the management and to the Bank on a quarterly basis.
Content of FMRs have been discussed and agreed on. It consist of (i) financial projections (budget) and
actual for the quarter and cumulative by category of disbursement for the use of funds side, (ii) sources
and uses of funds for quarter and cumulative, by source and by component and activities (see below
under assessment), (iii) physical progress comparable to uses of funds, and (iv) procurement monitoring
tables. As to the format, CNCS and MOH will provide the respective formats by Grant effectiveness.
To ensure reliability of information, monitoring and regular audits are crucial for this type of project. In
particular, a quarterly review and audit of a sample of sub-projects will be required in order to obtain
reasonable assurance of reliability of expenditures and compliance of the communities and civil society
- 96 -



with the terms of agreements. These reviews and audits would be carried out in collaboration among the
M&E team and internal and external auditors. The TORs for external auditors specify that they should
plan their audits such that their field audit is carried-out every quarter for a sample of sub-projects. Their
work should cover at least 20% of sub-projects so as to ensure the coverage of each sub-project at least
once during the implementation period.
Planning and Budgeting
The CNCS has been building capacity towards an adequate planning and budgeting system and practice.
In practice, the roles and responsibilities are relatively well defined. However, they need to be refined
and documented in the CNCSs manuals and job description. Training seems to be necessary at all
levels. Capacity for this function needs to remain in-house and therefore CNCS will be strengthened for
this function.
Although the provincial Nuclei will play a pivotal role in ensuring the proper planning as well as
monitoring of the execution of approved sub-projects and programs, there is no evidence that capacity for
proper planning and budgeting, beyond that of their owII recurrent expenses, already exists. The
mission/functions andjob description of the provincial nuclei will be carefully reviewed and the right
size and capacity built or outsourced. As much as feasible, the work would be delegated to outside
agencies (intermediaries, consultants, NGOs,...) through agreements and contracts in order to minimize
the in-house functions.
Planning and budgeting for the health component will be done coordinated by the project coordinator in
consultation with key departments in the MOH. DPC will be responsible for the final plan submitted to
the CCM and the Minister for approval.
Accounting and Reporting Systems
CNCS
Before the involvement of the Bank with CNCS, and with assistance from other donors (USAID and
UNDP), CNCS had recruited reputable audit firms and started to design and implement a computerized
MIS which includes accounting and reporting modules. The accounting system and chart of accounts
have been defined and salient features of the system well described in a manual. The manual also details
the financial and administrative policies and procedures and control activities. Since the CNCS is a
public entity, they are in conformity with the public sector financial management rules and requirements.
It is noted that most of the functions could have been outsourced rather than capacity be built in-house.
The work has been substantially completed and staff is being trained. The system, as designed, is to
serve the CNCS with its national mandate which exceeds the coordination and reporting of the Bank
funded project. The system which has been now designed, serves this wider scope. Consequently,
although the MIS captures the information by source of funding, it classifies the expenditures either by
type in traditional nature of expense (i.e. salary, transport, ..., ...) or by a set of pre-defined intervention
areas and initiatives (i.e. prevention, reduction of impact, support systems, ...). These do not exactly
match the World Bank's disbursement categories or components, sub-components, and activities. A
consulting firm will be hired to ensure compatibility of the financial system with World Bank reporting
needs.
Prior to Grant effectiveness, a final review will be carried out by Bank staff in order to assess the
financial system and reporting solutions, and confirm the availability of good quarterly FMRs within the
required timeframe.
- 97 -



MOH
The ministry has experience with the Bank via the Health Sector Recovery Program. Unfortunately, the
financial management of the project has not been a completely satisfactory experience and there are some
fiduciary issues that the MOH has been dealing with (i.e. a series of fraudulent fund transfers were not
detected until the amount reached $ 290,000). The ministry is proceeding with legal action and, it
appears that new controls have been put in place to prevent the recurrence of such acts.
The ministry is at present up-to-date with its audits. However, the audit reports have been systematically
late.
The accounting and reporting for projects at the GACOPI is on spreadsheet. One individual consultant
(the financial controller) is handling this system single handedly. A study and needs assessment has been
done and the report is available to the ministry. It is urgent that the recommendations of the report be
considered and actions taken to: (i) procure the hardware/software necessary; (ii) build-up the HR
capacity by recruiting and training the essential staff to operate the system; (iii) outsource functions that
are possible to do so; and (iv) carry out other actions that are described in the attached action plan. MOH
needs both the strengthening of GACOPI and outsourcing of some functions for the HIV/AIDS project.
As is the case of MAP projects, when adequate capacity is not readily available, the preferred option is to
outsource the administration and financial services to a professional body. In fact one of the MAP
conditions is that the recipient government takes exceptional measures for implementation and this
outsourcing is the demonstration of such exceptional measure.
Internal controls
Intemal controls at the CNCS are well documented. Intemal auditors have been recruited and are in
place. However, they have not yet started to produce audit plans which they need to do immediately. The
first activity to undertake would be to assess the systems and procedures and compliance of provincial
nuclei.
During this assessment, few weaknesses in the intemal controls were found and flagged. These consist
of lack of clear segregation of duties for bank reconciliation and book keeping and safeguard of assets.
Furthermore, it is necessary that all payments be with two signatures one from each block A and B. In
order to reduce the potential risk that exist at present, the CNCS management will be taking remedial
action on these issues. A consulting firm will be hired to backstop audit and control functions within the
institution.
MOH intemal procedures and controls are well documented at GACOPI. Segregation of critical and
incompatible tasks does not exist which creates a great risk. Urgent action by MOH is needed in this
area and, in particular, in the strengthening of internal audit function at the ministry.
Physical information
Systems and procedures are non existent, to collect data, analyze, and produce reports on physical
progress. CNCS and MOI both need to design and implement such system and mechanisms, for
output monitoring. Finally, the monitoring of physical progress will include technical audits by
external experts, the reports from which should be compared and reconciled with the reports produced
through the intemal channels.
- 98 -



Staffing issues
CNCS issue is both at the Head office and provinces. Combination of recruitment and outsourcing will
be the appropriate solution. The planned recruitment of three officers for the project will improve the
head office. However, the situation of nuclei will receive attention under the training needs assessment
and training program to be carried out during the first year of implementation.
Assessment of capacity of MDAs, Private Sector and, IVGOs/CBOs
The PIP and special purpose procedures manuals for each of the components one, three and four will, in
detail, describe the operations of each of those components. Inter-alia, (i) the criteria and method of
assessment of each applicant implementing agency and its readiness, and (ii) the criteria and review
method and the review level for applications and their financability will be described. The first
assessment will take place before the second one. A sarnple of small and large NGOs will be assessed by
consultants during the implementation of the PPF to ensure the feasibility of the established criteria and
methodology. The assessment of MDAs' capacity to carry out activities under component two and to
account for the funds on a timely manner needs to be completed before funds are made available to each
of them.
Readiness for effectiveness
CNCS is in the final stages of hiring a well established consulting firm to provide support in the
areas of personnel management and training, and to adjust their financial system to meet project
and Bank reporting requirements. Hiring of the additional staff needed for the CNCS team is
well underway. The new staff will be in place well before project effectiveness.
By effectiveness:
As noted in prior sections, as a condition of Grant effectiveness, the Borrower should:
(i) produce model Financial Monitoring Reports
(ii) open the Project Account under CNCS management
(iii) finalize financial management manuals for CNCS
(iv) put in place the physical data collection system for CNCS
(v) hire the project auditors
2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Control
It is the responsibility of the CNCS/MISAU to ensure requirements of IDA and GoM are adhered to in so
far as management of project resources is concerned. The CNCS/MISAU shall operate a framework of
strong internal control system. Through regular financial monitoring and support visits the
CNCS/MISAU shall assure that Provinces, Sectors and other project implementers adhere to prescribed
guidelines for management of project resources.
Implementing Partner will be visited by the CNCS at least quarterly, when their accountability reports
and supporting documents will be examined.
- 99 -



External Audit
The External Audit shall be carried out by Private Auditors contracted by CNCS/MISAU according to
Terms of Reference acceptable to IDA. The project Auditors shall be independent and acceptable to IDA.
The External Audits shall be on a continuous basis in order to enhance comprehensive Audits and timely
production of Audit reports. Audit of project annual accounts will be completed and reports submitted to
the World Bank within six months from the end of each financial year.
The extemal audit of the project shall include:
*      an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor
expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of project financed assets;
*      a determination as to whether the borrower and the CNCS/MISAU have maintained adequate
documentation on all relevant transactions;
*      verification that expenditures documented to the bank are eligible for financing, and
identification of any ineligible expenditures; and
*      a separate opinion for the SOEs and / or FMRs against which disbursements have been made or
are due to be made from the Grant.
Audit of Special Accounts
The audits shall verify that funds withdrawn from the Special Account and its subsidiary Project Account
are used for appropriate purposes in support of the project, and disbursements are proper and in
accordance with the Grant Agreement. SA audits consist of a review of the SA (s) records together with
the statement of the SA provided by the bank in which the SA are maintained. Movements in the SA
account (s) include advances and replenishments from the IDA and project related disbursements based
on withdrawal requests. The audit also includes the treatment and disclosure of interest earned on the SA.
The overall objectives of auditing the FMRs are to determine:
*      whether the statements, particularly the Sources and Application of Funds, are fairly presented
for the specified period, as well as cumulatively for the Project; and
*     that the reported disbursements were made in accordance with the Grant Agreements and the
PAD.
The audit would also evaluate the fair presentation of the financial statements, with particular attention to
the treatment of assets.
Audits of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
Clauses of the Grant Agreement provides that, for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawal
from the Grant Account were made on the basis of FMRs or SOEs, the Borrower shall:
*   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with LA, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
*   retain, at least one year all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents
evidencing such expenditures) after the World Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account or payment out of the Special Account was
made to enable the World Bank's representative to examine such records;
*   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in LA and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the FMRs or SOEs
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
-100-



preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
*   a comprehensive Chart of Accounts as detailed in Annex 10 shall be captured in the Computerized
Accounting System capable of generating the above r eports. The system will generate data for
monitoring performance against predetermined indicators.
Financial Management Risks
The financial risks are being dealt with in the design of the project management component, and by the
hiring in of technical assistance. The major risks include: (i) that counterpart funds are not adequate or
are made availble late, and (ii) that the flow of funds to and documentation from provincial level is slow
and inadequate. Mitigation measures taken under the project include: (i) commitments from the MOF
and other donors to ensure that maximum fundiong is available. Under the design of the project, the
management of the civil society component has been separated from the rest so that different
implementation capacity across components can be accomodated, allowing implementation to move as
rapidly as possible, and (ii) the design of the funding arrangments as well as internal controls and
mechanisms for monitoring and reporting is such as to strike a balance between the cost of controls and
reporting on one hand and efficiency on the other.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Special Account - Disbursements
A Special Account is a revolving account funded with advances from the IDA Grant and used exclusively
to cover the IDA's share of eligible expenditures in the project (other than expenditures financed through
direct payments or special commitments). The Special account mechanism is the principal way through
which the multiple implementers will access project funds.
Mozambique HIV/AIDS Response Project will manage three Special Accounts. The first, Special
Account A will be managed by CNCS ES to finance components II, III and V. The second, Special
Account B will be used by MISAU to finance component IV. The third, Special Account C will be used
by CNCS to finance component I.
The authorized allocation for Special Account A is US $; 1.5 million. This will be limited to US$
750,000 until SDR 2.5 million are disbursed from the appropriate categories. For Special Account B, the
authorized allocation is US $ 1 million, limited to US $ 500,000 until SDR 2.5 million are disbursed from
the appropriate categories. For Special Account C, the authorized allocation is US$ 2.5 million, limited
to US $ 1.25 million until aggregate withdrawals from the appropriate categories is more than SDR 4
million.
For replenishment of the special account, the CNCS/MISAU fumishes to the Bank monthly requests for
deposits into the special account in respect of expenditures other than those on account of direct
payments and special commitments.
Payments out of the SA are exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with Schedule 1 of the
Development Grant Agreement.
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of grant proceeds has been defined across the three Special Accounts. The details are
noted below (in SDRs at an exchange rate of US$ 1.32481 = SDR 1.0)
- 101 -



Category     Amount of Grant   Amount of    Amount of Grant  % of Expenditures
Allocated    Grant Allocated   Allocated     to be Financed
(Expressed in  (Expressed in  (Expressed in
SDR)           SDR)            SDR)
Special Account    Special     Special Account
A           Account B          C
(Parts B,C,E of  (Part D of the  (Part A of the
the Project)     Project)       Project)
(1) Works        200,000         150,000                      100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2) Goods,      1,100,000       6,800,000                     100% of foreign
equipment and                                                  expenditures and
vehicles                                                      80% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultant    5,300,000      1,350,000                          86 %
Services and
Audits
(4) Training     1,500,000      1,000,000                          100%
(5) Sub-grants for                                16,700,000    100% of amounts
Subprojects under                                                  disbursed
Part A of the
Project
(6) Operating Costs  800,000         800,000                          80%
(7) Refunding of    700,000                                       Amount due
Project Preparation                                             pursuant to Section
Advance                                                       2.02 (b) of this
I _________ I____   I_____________   _______________   A greem ent
(8) Unallocated   1,400,000       1,500,000      2,300,000
Total         11,000,000     11,600,000      19,000,000       41,600,000
It should be noted that no payments will be made for expenditures under Component IV (Part D) of the
Project (the Health Component) unless the Recipient has appointed a Project Manager and provided
evidence of strengthened financial management and procurement capacity and practices in MOH to
implement the Project in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements
of expenditure for expenditures for contracts for: (a) goods not exceeding $150,000 equivalent each; (b)
consulting firms not exceeding $200,000 equivalent each; and (c) individual consultants not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent each; (d) training; (e) Sub-Grants for Subprojects (after the first 5 subprojects
estimated to cost US$ 10,000 or more have been reviewed) and (f) Operating Costs and small works,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
- 102 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MOZAMBIQUE: HIV/AIDS Response Project
Project SChedule                                  Planned';                  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     4                            7
First Bank mission (identification)            05/07/2002                   05/07/2002
Appraisal mission departure                    09/15/2002                   10/21/2002
Negotiations                                   11/15/2002                   12/16/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  06/15/2003                   06/15/2003
Prepared by:
Government of Mozambique - Led by the Executive Secretariat to the National Council to Combat
HIV/AIDS (CNCS) and including the Ministry of Health, and various sectoral ministries who prepared
HIV/AIDS plans
Preparation assistance:
Consistent, timely and high quality support for project preparation and quality assurance were provided
by the ACT Africa team. Members of the AFTQK team from the Washington, Mozambique and
Madagascar Offices were involved in all meetings and missions and provided guidance and support on
the fiduciary framework.
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                    Speciality
James Coates                      Agricultural Economist
Kate Kuper                        Institutional Development Specialist
Mary Mulusa                       Public Health Specialist
Jean Rutabanzibwa-Ngaiza          Social Scienlist
Noel Kulemeka                     Education Specialist
Iraj Talai                        Lead Financial Management Specialist
Slaheddine Ben-Halima             Sr. Procurement Specialist
Joao Tinga                        Financial Management Officer
Isabel Nhassengo                  Procurement and Disbursement Assistant
Christian Hurtado                 Operations, L-ogistics and Costing
Mbaye Mbengue Faye                Health Waste Management
Kees Kostermans                   Public Health Specialist and Medical Doctor
Aniceto Bila                      Operations Officer
Adelia Chebeia                    Task Assistant
Rima Al-Azar                      Community Development Specialist
Elisabeth J. Ashbourne            Private Sector Development Specialist
Manuel Sumbana                    Procurement Specialist
Bachir Souhial                    Lead Operations Advisor
Jose Janeiro                      Sr Disbursement Officer
Jose Paulo Kastrup                Lawyer
- 103 -



Mohanumad Pate                    Public Health Specialist and Medical Doctor
Katy Backes                      Institutional Development
Maria Nita Dengo                 Agricultural Economist
- 104 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
MOZAMBIQUE: HIV/AIDS Response Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Operations Manual
Draft Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Assessment of national HIV/AIDS communications strategies
HIV/AIDS and Macroeconomic Prospects for Mozambique: An Initial Assessment
Aide Memoires from Identification Mission, Pre-Appraisal and Appraisal Missions
C. Other
National Strategy to Combat HIV/AIDS and STDs 2000 -- 2003
National CNCS Plan and Budget - 2002 - 2003
Demographic Assessment of Impact of HIV/AIDS Epidemic on Mozambique
CNCS Monitoring and Evaluation Manual
CNCS Administration Manua
CNCS Common Fund Management Manual
Health Care Waste Management Plan
*Including electronic files
- 105-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOZAMBIQUE: HIVIAIDS Response Project
02-Oct-2002
Difference between expeded
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                  GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P049878        2003 MZ-EMPSO                                          0 00     120 00                 0.00      0.00     12703       0 00       000
P001806        2002 MZ-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                  000      3360                   0.00      000       3156       2.36       000
P001785        2002 MZ-ROADS&BRIDGESMMP                               000      162.00                 000       0.00     16398      14.20       000
P069824        2002 Higher Education Projet                           0.00     60 00                  0.00      0 00      69 44     -2 56       0 00
P073479        2002 MZ - Communication Sector Reform                  0.00      14 90                 0.00      000       1428      -0.47       0.00
P001808        2001 Mineral ResourcesProject (NRMCP)                  000       18.00                 0.00      0.00      16.81      104        000
P070305        2000 Coastl and Manne Biodrversity MGMT                0.00       5.60                 0.00      0.00       4.85      496        0.00
P049874        2000 ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT                            0.00      26.00                 000       0.00      18.19     1104        000
P042039        2000 RAILWAY 6 PORT RESTR                              0 00     100.00                 0.00      0.00      72.28     44.28      *s.48
P035919        2000 COASTAL MANAGEMENT                                0.00       680                  4.11      0.00       346       280        1.64
P052240        1999 NATIONAL WATER It                                 0 00      75 00                 0.00      0 00      65.23     25.95       0 00
P001786        1999 EducationSectorStrategrcProgrsm(ESSP)             0.00      7100                  0.00      000       5895      4866        000
P001799        1999 AGRICSECTORPEP                                    0.00      30.00                 0.00      0.00      18.96      15.46      000
P039016        1998 NATIONAL WATERI                                   000       3600                  0.00      000       24.15     2016        000
P001759        1997 TRANSBORDERPARKS                                  0.00       0.00                 5.00      0.00       061       485        0.00
P001792        1996 HEALTHSECRECOVERY                                 000       98.70                 0.00      000       1573      2695        000
P001780        1994 MZGASENGINEERING(ENGY)                            0.00      30.00                 0.00      347        086        482       482
P001804        1994 2NDROADANDCOSTAL                                  0.00     188.00                 0.00       1.66     1801       20.52     2039
Total:        0.00    1074.40               911         5.12      714 40    245.01      21.38
-106-



MOZAMBIQUE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity  Quasi    Partic  Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1996               AEFCahoraBassa                 0.18    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00     0.00
1998               BIM-INV                        0.00    0.30    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.30     0.00    0.00
2000                BMF                           0.00    0.20     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20     0.00    0.00
1997/01            MOZAL                         25.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               Maragra Sugar                 10.30    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1992               Polana Hotel                   0.53    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.53    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                SEF Ausmoz                    0.72    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.45    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               SEF CPZ                        1.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               SEF CTOX                       0.73    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.73    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                SEF Cabo Caju                 0.58    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEFROBEIRA                     0.13    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.13    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        39.17    0.50     0.00    0.00     3.53    0.50    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
1999               Mozal Swap                        9.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               BIML                              2.00     0.00      0.30      0.00
2001               SEF Grand Prix                    0.44      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        11.44     0.00      0.30      0.00
- 107 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MOZAMBIQUE: HIWAIDS Response Project
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low.
Mozamblque      Africa  income      Development dimnond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                     18.1      674      2,511                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Aeas method, US$)                    210      470       430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     3.8      317      1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (96)                                      2.2       2.5       1.9
Labor force (X)                                      2.2       2.6       2.3    GNI    '                        Gross
per                           primary
Most recent esltmate (latet year available, 1995-01)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national povefty lihe)
Urban population (X of total populatfon)             41         32       31
Ufe expectancy at birth (Years)                       42       47        59
Intant mortality (per 1,000 Nve bliths)              129       91        76
Child malnutrition (96 of children under 5)           26         ,                   Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (X of population)  60        55       76
Illiteracy (9 of populatUon age 15+)                  55        37       37
Gross primarv enrollment (Xo of school-age population)  71      78       96Mozambique
Male                                                83        85      103                  Low-income group
Fenale                                              60       72        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000     2(001
Economic ratios
GOP (USS billions)                          3 5      2.5       3.8       3.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP               6.0     16.0      39.6      41.6                    Trade
Exportsofgoodsand services/GDP              9.9     11.2      12.3      21.7
Gross domestic savinslGDP                   -9.8   -11.2      11.9      19.2
Gross national savings'GDP                  -8.6    -8.7      15.6      17.3
Current account balance/GDP                -13.2   -29.6     -27.7     -23.6     Domestic                   Investment
Interest pavmentslGDP                       0.0      0.6       3.8       5.1     +avIngs
Total debt/GDP 11                            0.0   336.7     136.5     138.1     svn
Total debt service duelexports 2/           0.0     15.5       9.1       3.5
Present value of debt/GDP 21                                  24.6      25.3
Present value of debt/exports V.                             194.4     116.0
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01    2000      2001   200105
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 1.2     7.3      1.6      13.9       9.0                  Mozambique
GOP per capita                     -0.1     4.9     -0.2      11.8       6.9            -     Low-Income group
Exports of goods and services      -2.7    14.8     15.0      60.0      25.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000     2001      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(96 of GDP)
Agnculture                                 35.1     33.7      24 4      22.0    60
Industry                                   33.8     17.6      25.1      25.8    40 
Manufacturng                                        9.2      12.6     11.5
Services                                   31.1     48.6      50.5      52.2    20
Private consumption                        97.0    100.6      78.2      70.4           sr    97   gs    go   oo    01
Generalgovemmentconsumption                12.8     10.6       9.9      104                    GDI       e  GDP
Imports of goods and services              25.8     38.4      40.0      44.0
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001     Growth of exports and imports (O)
(averege annual growth)
Agriculture                                  5.4     59       -10.3     14.0    75 -
Industry                                    -3.9    17.2       4.3      34.1    so -
Manufacturing                                      18.0      11.0     34.3     25
Services                                    9.4      1.2      11.3      -8.3     0
Private consumption                        -0.2      3.9      -4.3      -2.2   .27                90    99   00    01
General govemment consumptlon              -2.7      3.0       5.0      -4A4    -0
Gross domestic Investment                   4.9     16.8       6.2      14.6                 Exports        imports
Imports of goods and services              -2.6      7.7       0.0       3.0
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) oompared wrth its income-group average if data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete
-108 -



Mozambique
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      20003     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        GO
Consumer prices                               4.2     33.3      12.7      9.0     40
ImpilcitGDPdeflator                           4.1    46.2       11.7     11.3
Government finance                                                                20K
('Y of GDP, Includes current grants)                                               o -
Current revenue                              15.4     16.6      17.8     17.8             96    87    98    9     00   0
Current budget balance                        2.1     3.8        4.2      3.7            -     GDPdelator    0CPi
Overall surplus/deflcit                      -8.7    -10.1     -10.9    -12.9
TRADE
1981     1991      2000      2001      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(USS mililons)
Total exports (fob)                          281      162       364       704     1.500
Cashew                                       56       16        28       31
Prawn                                        82       61        69       81      1000
Manufactures                                  ..     40         14       15
Total Imports (cif                             ..     791      1,162    1,117
Food                                         ,.       ..        87       72       s* 
Fuel and energy                               ..      ..        44       41
Capital goods and Mozal related Imports      ..       ..       410      396        0
Export price Index (1995=100)                 91       99        77        90           9s   05   97   9s   80      o 
Import price Index (1995=100)                107       90        88        84                a Exports      Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)31                      85      110        87       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981    1991      2000      2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mililons)
Exportsof goodsand services                  395      310       732     1,022      o-
Imports of goods and services                858      894      1,546    1,588         fl_
Resource balance                             -464    -584      -814      -566
Net Income                                     -1    -154      -22B      -283
Net current transfers                          0        0          0        0 al* 
Current account balance                      -464    -738     -1,042     -850     -20
FInancing items (net)                        398      751      1,235      853
Changes In net reserves                       67       -13     -194        -4     -30 .
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millons)        171      240       746       727
Conversion rate (DEC, IocalUS$)              35.4  1.462.9  15,447.1  20,703.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 2001 debt (US$ m Ill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed 4/        0     8,402     5,125    4,980
lBOR                                         0        0         0         0                            8:760
IDA                                          0      328       760       760                              C: 220
Total debtservice                              0       57         67       46          F.1,84 /      ; 4
lBRD                                         0        0         0         0                                 0    9
IDA                                          0        2         9         4
Composition of net resource flows 4/
Official grants                              ..     602       564       469
Offlcial creditors                           0       94        151       83
Private creditors excl. non-guarateed debt   0      -16        -1        -1
Foreign direct Investment                    0       23       139       183                           E 3,031
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0       53        62       229      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                0       56        98        51      B - IDA  D - Other multiateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        0         4         5      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                    0       58        94        47
Interest payments                            0        2         5         6    Note: Private debt In chart Includes non-
Net transfers                                0       54        89        42    guaranteed debt of USS ,747 m.
uevewopmenm rcOnomrcs                                                                               '/1 I/Uz
4/ Public and publicly guaranteed. Data for 2000 reflects legal situation as at the end of 2000. Does not reflect full delivery of assistance under
-109.-



Additional Annex IISupervision Plan
MOZAMBIQUE: HIV/AIDS Response Project
The project will require intensive supervision given its innovative approach, the large span of activities
from the community to the national level, its blend of public, private and civil society implementation
agencies whose experience with HIV/AIDS programs varies considerably, and its multi-sectoral nature.
The range of activities in prevention, care, treatment, and mitigation is complex and will be implemented
by many entities whose capacity will need strengthening. The Bank's supervision effort in the first year
will focus on the following strategic areas:
Comprehensive approach to HIV/AIDS. Funding and executing a broad range of HIV/AIDS activities
across many sectors by multiple implementation agencies at the national and local level, with a particular
emphasis on scaling up existing programs and building capacity, will require consistent and sustained
support and.coordination, including learning from other MAP and HIV/AIDS programs from around the
world.
Ownership and stakeholders. Experience has shown that the commitment and enthusiasm shown by
stakeholders during project preparation needs to be maintained during early project implementation by
accelerating funding of projects in both the public sector and civil society. While the operational manual
has been prepared in Mozarnbique with involvement of some stakeholders, this needs to be expanded,
and supervision should focus on constantly adjusting the operational manual to local realities.
New institutions. The CNCS Secretariat in Mozambique is designed to facilitate and coordinate rather
than to control and implement. Any new institution, however, implements its mission through actions.
Supervision will focus, in particular, on assisting the Secretariat to: (a) putting in place the
recommendations of the Institutional Assessment as approved by the National Council on December 10,
2002; and (b) empower the implementing agencies in the public sector and civil society by allowing them
to make decisions on program activities and to participate in adjusting project processes based on the
early lessons of implementation.
Fiduciary architecture. Financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and
implementation channels represent the core fiduciary responsibilities that need to be assessed and
enhanced during supervision. The principle that program monitoring and evaluation is part of the
fiduciary framework of the MAP approach is new for Mozambique and for the Bank and will require
special attention during implementation.
Objectives and Schedule of Supervision Missions
During the first twelve months of implementation, the project will have three formal supervision
missions in addition to ad-hoc visits by Bank staff in the Mozambique Country Office (on financial
management and procurement) and from the UNAIDS/World Bank evaluation support unit in
Washington (on monitoring and evaluation). The members of the donors group on Health and HIV/AIDS
may also assist with supervision on an ad-hoc basis in addition to: (a) assisting government ministries
and civil society organizations to enhance project preparation to access MAP funding; and (b) improving
the efficiency and effectiveness of HIV/AIDS programs through specialized technical expertise.
The first supervision mission will be scheduled shortly after the Board presentation to review the new
staffing of the CNCS Secretariat, to review the Secretariat's technical assistance, training and contracting
out arrangements, and to participate in a formal project launch aimed at accelerating the preparation and
- 110-



funding of first-year programs by public sector institutions and the submission of projects by
municipalities and civil society organizations.
The second supervision mission will focus on providing assistance in ensuring that: (a) the operational
manual has been adapted to early implementation experience; (b) existing programs are being scaled up
and funded, especially in core public sector ministries, the municipalities and civil society organizations
already working in HIV/AIDS; (c) capacity building has started for agencies that require it; and (d) the
CNCS Secretariat is operating effectively.
The third supervision mission will focus on assisting Mozambique to hold a broad review of the project
that would involve donors, the UN (particularly UNDP and UNICEF), and stakeholders in Mozambique.
The review would (a) assess the startup process under the project and making any project design
adjustments; (b) building joint and complementary processes for funding civil society initiatives -
particularly with the donors already involved in funding the Common Fund, and (c) appropriate funding
is available from the international community and from local resources.
The Bank's Supervision Effort
The j oint UNAIDS/World Bank progress review of MLAP 1 in mid-2001 concluded that MAP proj ects
require intensive supervision using multi-sectoral teams that can provide implementation assistance in a
variety of sectors. Members of the Bank preparation team will be carried over into the first year of
supervision (to start late in FY 03 and run through FY 04) enhanced by: (a) assigning a HL staff member
of the ESSD group in the Maputo Country Office to be engaged full time in support of the startup process
for the project, (b) increased reliance on the Mozambique Country Office for periodic visits between
formal supervision missions; and (c) close collaboration with UNDP, who are providing key support to
the institutional development of the CNCS Secretariat, as it adds capacity. It is expected that the
supervision budget for the first twelve months will exceed the Bank norm.
Each of the three missions is expected to last for up to two weeks and comprise between four and six
team members. About 25-30 total staff weeks will be required for the first three supervision missions, in
addition to approximately eight non-mission staff weeks. Technical skills required by a mission will
depend on relevant implementation issues each time. The necessary specialists are likely to include
First supervision mission:  Task Team Leader, procurement, financial, institutions, M&E,
health, civil society initiatives
Second supervision mission:  Task Team Leader, civil society initiatives, institutions
Third supervision mission:  Task Team Leader, health, institutions, financial, procurement
Financial management and procurement support from the Bank's Mozambique Country Office will be on
an ad-hoc basis in addition to scheduled mnissions.
Indicative cost of supervision for the first 12 months of the project: US$ 160,000.
- ill -



Additional Annex 12Monitoring and Evaluation
MOZAMBIQUE: HIV/AIDS Response Project
Introduction
Mozamambique HIV/AIDS Response project is based on the assumption that programs can be
implemented quickly if effective monitoring and evaluation systems are rapidly established as a
management tool, to guide continuous project adjustments. This approach relies on good monitoring and
evaluation. Mozambique is rapidly building its capacity in many areas of monitoring and evaluation.
Monitoring and Evaluation Components
Monitoring and evaluation comprises the following components:
* Overall M&E system
* Surveillance
* Essential research
* Financial management
* Program activity monitoring
The overall M&E system consists of a guiding flowchart and data base, to ensure that all M&E
information flows logically to a single, national repository. Mozamnbique's nascent Country Response
Information System (CRIS) provides an excellent basis for the development of an overall M&E system.
Surveillance consists of biological and behavioural surveillance. Mozambique has rapidly expanding
biological surveillance and is committed to increased behavioural surveillance, to ensure full second
generation surveillance. MAP will support biological and behavioural surveillance as required and agreed
with stakeholders. Essential research is required to track HIV and STI trends and to evaluate prevention
and care interventions among priority groups. The CNCS is currently developing financial management
systems, with technical support from a major accounting firms.
Monitoring and Evaluation Structure
The CNCS will manage the above monitoring and evaluation components as follows (with adjustments
made, and assistance contracted in as needed during the course of implementation)
Component                                Delegated to
Overall M&E system                      CNCS manage overall system, sub-contracting
technical sub-tasks as required
Surveillance                            Biological: MoH, through STI/AIDS and
Epidemiology Units
Behavioural: MoH, assisted by universities,
research agencies or consulting firms
Essential research                      MoH coordinates, through universities or
research institutions, usually with extemal
research funding
National CNCS, public sector and civil society CNCS, assisted by major accounting/consulting
financial management M&E                firm
National CNCS, public sector and civil society Major consulting firm or NGO
program management M&E
- 112 -



Program Management Monitoring
Program management monitoring represents the greatest challenge facing Mozambique's project (and
other Multisectoral AIDS Projects), which is partly addressed through Mozambique's draft M&E
manuals. Through the project, and also the Global Fund, the CNCS will assume a major grant-making
role, supporting several hundred AIDS projects nationally. CNCS is developing the necessary systems
and procedures for grant-making. CNCS require systems for identifying epidemiological priorities and
soliciting compliant applications, publicizing grants, developing and publicizing structured, transparent
selection procedures, publicizing recipients, monitoring program performance of recipients and
communicating achievements. This area is still being developed and requires greatest emphasis.
The gathering of program activity monitoring will be a CNCS function, under the current design.
Following implementation experience and assessment of effectiveness and outcomes, a consulting firm or
NGO may be contracted by CNCS to assist with the implementation of this function. Agreement was
reached with IDA on the key indicators to be tracked under this project (Schedule 6 to the Development
Grant Agreement).
The following steps are recommended to equip CNCS to support program activity monitoring:
* CNCS strengthens its coordination role and increases its capacity to coordinate, not implement,
monitoring and evaluation
* CNCS delegates the implementation of monitoring and evaluation to those agencies implementing
the activities. Specialized assistance may be contracted to be responsible for training partners and
verifying, collating, analyzing and reporting data
* CNCS and stakeholders continue an intensive participatory process, to build ownership and buy-in
for monitoring and evaluation
* Each partner agrees its key targets with CNCS, using a simple, structured Targets Form
* Each partner reports results monthly using a simple, structured Reporting Form
* Results are verified semi-annually by the specialized agency
* The CNCS assesses each partners' progress towards targets semi-annually, using a simple Rating
Form
* The CNCS, and agencies working with it in on monitoring and evaluation, prepare summary reports
of aggregate activities semi-annually, using a simple Summary Form
* CNCS and key stakeholders meet semi-annually to review monitoring reports and to identify key
lessons
* CNCS and key stakeholders update their operational and monitoring and evaluation manuals and
procedures based on lessons learned
-113 -






IBRD 32324
26'      ~36'42
;IA
TANZANIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~A    F__              Ro,, I           ,
-141
TETE~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
J  **,,.~~~~~~~~~~~i  (  NIASi AZA   l  ,lQ,  
z ~ ~ ~ ~~/MLW     (~ I  F2 L 
- -MOZAMBIQUE"   
20'  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~~~~PRRJECfTtf
~~'A ultHIVPralnce20
MP NFI'~~~~~~*NainaCpio
~~ ~~~o.~I



