Report No. PID11473
Project Name                     MOZAMBIQUE-HIV/AIDS Response Project (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Health (100%)
Project ID                       P078053
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE
Implementing Agency
Address NATIONAL AIDS SECRETARIAT, MINISTRIES
AND CIVIL SOCIETY
Executive Secretariat, National Council to
Combat HIV/AIDS
Address: Rua Antonio Bocarro 106/144,
Maputo, Mozambique
Contact Person: Mrs Janet Mondlane, Executive
Secretary, National Council
to Combat HIV/AIDS
Tel: 258 1 495 396
Fax: 258 1 495 395
Email: janet@virconn.com
Ministry of Health
Address: Av Eduardo Mondlane 1008
Contact Person: Dr. Francisco Songane,
Minister of Health
Tel: 258 1 313 389
Fax: 258 1 427 133
Email: ffsongane@teledata.co.mz
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 7, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              October 3, 2002
Bank Approval Date               March 25, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Country and Sector Background
Mozambique achieved independence in 1975. Since then it has suffered from
civil war, flood and drought, while defining and building its economic and
social institutions. Since the early 1990's Mozambique has succeeded in
creating the institutions necessary to underpin both a democratic form of
Government, and an economy based on market principles. This framework has
the potential to deliver rapid, sustained and broad based growth. These
institutions, however, are weak, due fundamentally to the lack of
sufficient qualified and motivated staff. Incomes are low, with GDP per
capita in the range of   US$ 230. Some 699 of the population consume below
a minimum level designated as the 'poverty line', with poverty deeper in
rural areas.  Indices on literacy (40%), gross primary enrollment (71%)
infant mortality (147 per 1,000 live births), maternal mortality (1,083
per 100,000 deliveries) and malnutrition (affecting 41 % of children under
5) are all low by African standards. All of these indicators are



averages. When these averages are opened up they reveal sharp differences
across: (i) gender, with women and girls having significantly lower living
standards than men and boys; (ii) rural-urban space, where the rural
population fares significantly worse than the urban population on all
counts; and (iii) provinces, where Maputo city and province are
significantly ahead of the rest of the country.
Prevalence by Location
In 1999 life expectancy at birth in Mozambique was 44 years. Without the
AIDS epidemic, this was projected to reach 50 years by 2010. If the
current rate of infection with HIV continues, AIDS will cause life
expectancy to drop to 36.5 years by 2010. The HIV prevalence rate for
adults (ages 15-49) in Mozambique has been recently estimated at 12.2% for
the year 2000. The first infection was diagnosed in 1986. By 1988 the
prevalence rate in the city of Maputo was 1%, increasing to 9.9% ten years
later, and reaching 13% in 2000.    The installation of 20 surveillance
centers spread across the country in 2000 has permitted a much more
reliable estimate of the progress of the disease. The new data reveals
dramatic differences in prevalence rates across regions as can be seen
from the table below.
Adult HIV Prevalence by Province in 2000
The highest prevalence rates are found in three provinces in the center of
the country, Tete, Manica and Sofala (19.8%, 21.19 and 18.7 %
respectively) where there are active, high volume transport corridors to
Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi (three countries that have higher levels of
HIV prevalence than Mozambique -- the first two are above 20 % ). Gaza,
the province which is home to the migrant miners who work in South Africa,
has the next highest rate, 16%-. Maputo Province is home to a key
transport corridor to South Africa's industrial heartland, and has a
prevalence rate of 13%-.   Maputo City, the largest urban center, a port, a
transport hub,   and the highest income levels in the country, has a
prevalence rate of 13%.    Zambezia, the most populous province with 19% of
the population, and extensive links to Malawi and central Africa, has a
prevalence rate of 12.7%.   The remaining four provinces with 40% of the
country's population, are largely rural, with prevalence rates well below
the national norm: Inhambane (9.6%), Nampula (5,29), Cabo Delgado (6.4%)
and Niassa (6.8%). Geography matters. Mozambique's position as a
transport corridor, which worked to its favor in the past, is now a health
liability. It is surrounded by countries with prevalence levels well
above its own:   Swaziland and Zimbabwe at over 259, Zambia and South
Africa at 20 %, Malawi at 16% and Botswana, in the center of the
continent, at over 35%.
Prevalence by Age and Gender
Women are more likely to be infected than men, and girls 15-25 are more
than twice as likely to be infected as boys. In 2000 it is estimated that
the prevalence rate for adult women (aged 15-49) was 13 %, vs 11 % for
men. There are also differences within age groups. Young women between
the ages of 15 and 29 are much more likely to be infected than their male
counterparts. On the other hand, men between the ages of 30 and 44 are
more likely to be infected than women of the same age group.
-2 -



Overall HIV Prevalence by Age Group in 2000
Awareness and Behavior Change
Knowledge of the existence of HIV/AIDS appears, (according to a 1997
survey of adults 15-49), to be almost universal in Mozambique, with 97T of
those surveyed recognizing HIV/AIDS as a sexually transmitted disease.
Knowledge of two or more means of preventing HIV/AIDS is also high (85w
among both men and women.   Over half (58%) of all respondents considered
AIDS a serious problem for their community and 659 thought the situation
would get worse.     Knowledge of HIV/AIDS is greatest amongst those in the
highest risk categories -- urban men with money and access to mass media
outlets. This high level of awareness noted above is contested in other
surveys, and doesn't seem to have resulted in changes in sexual behaviour.
The main form of infection is an unprotected heterosexual sexual
encounter, where women are more vulnerable than men. However, only about
one third of all sexually active adults used a condom at some point in the
past -- half of the men and one fifth of the women. Young people in the
15-24 age cohort, where women are extremely vulnerable as the above chart
indicates, seem to be aware of the dangers of unprotected sex, but their
behavior lags behind this knowledge. Recent data from a nationwide survey
carried out in 2001 by the National Institute of Statistics on sexual
awareness and behavior of people aged 15 to 24 indicates that some 79 % of
the men and 82 % of the women in the age cohort had heard of the disease
-- with awareness higher in urban areas. A high proportion (85% for men
and 70 % for women) of those aware of the disease knew how it was
transmitted, and of the measures that could be taken to avoid infection.
However, behavior change is not in line with awareness. Condom use is
low. As a national average for the age group, only 11% of the young men,
and 6% of the young women, said they used condoms in all sexual
encounters, with use rates lower in rural areas. The most common behavior
change was a shift towards fidelity. The rate of condom use in the first
sexual encounter is well below these averages.      The main reason given
for non-use of contraception was lack of knowledge. Of those young people
who were single 25 ? of men and 28? of women said they used a condom in
their most recent sexual encounter.
A study on sexual behavior among youth (15-24) carried out by the Ministry
of Health in 5 provinces and Maputo City in 2000 indicated that the age of
sexual debut was 15.7 years, slightly earlier for men and later for
women. At sexual debut, 85% did not use a condom (similar ratios for men
and women) with the most frequent reason for non-use being lack of
knowledge. Non-availability was the second most frequent reason for both
sexes.  Some 41 % of the youth reported having multiple sexual partners in
the past 6 months, with the ratio much higher for men than for women.
Regarding their most recent sexual encounter, this was with a non regular
partner for 28% of the men, and 4 % of the women.     In the most recent
sexual encounter, 37T of the men and 18% of the women used a condom. The
most frequent reason given for non-use was trust in the partner (for both
men and women).
PLWHA and Orphans
-3-



By late 2000 it is estimated that there were some 1.1 million people
living with HIV/AIDS, 57T of them women, and that the number was
increasing at the rate of 500 persons a day. During the year 2000, more
than 57,000 persons died from complications associated with AIDS. Of
these, some 25,000 were women, many of them mothers. Their death has left
an additional 60,000 children without a mother (often without any parents
at all). By the end of 2001, it is estimated there were some 400,000
children whose mother had died, with half of these deaths attributable to
AIDS.    This burden has been absorbed by the extended family, but there
are limits to how much support is available. The burden is projected to
grow geometrically, as the number of adult deaths from AIDS increases
rapidly in the coming years. It is expected there will be some 1 million
orphans to be cared for by 2008.
Stigma
One of the key issues which has affected the momentum of the HIV/AIDS
campaign has been the question of stigma.     Only a small number of
courageous individuals, living in urban areas, have revealed their HIV
positive status. They are subject to discrimination and job loss, and are
now slowly organizing themselves into associations which can mobilize
resources to care for them, and to allow them to contribute to the
advocacy campaign. At higher levels of society the issue is taboo. To
date no 'leadership' figures have emerged, such as Magic Johnson in the
USA, or Nkosi Jonson or Justice Edwin Cameron of South Africa, declaring
themselves positive and encouraging the society to act on the epidemic.
The situation is improving however. In November 2001 the Mozambique
parliament passed a law aimed at protecting workers who are infected with
HIV from discrimination at their workplaces. The bill, passed unanimously
by both the ruling FRELIMO party and opposition RENAMO lawmakers, makes it
illegal to sack workers on the grounds that they carry the HIV virus or
suffer from AIDS. The legislation also makes it illegal to carry out HIV
tests on workers or job seekers without their consent. The law also makes
it clear that no worker is obliged to reveal their HIV status to
employers, and health professionals must keep HIV tests results
confidential. Heavy fines are planned for breach of the law. While very
important, this law is not yet widely known or implemented.
Health Care in Mozambique
The health system in Mozambique consists of a network of 4 central
hospitals, 12 provincial hospitals, 25 rural hospitals, 276 health centers
and 736 health posts. It is estimated that about 40 percent of the
population have access to basic public preventive and curative health
services and live within 10 km of a facility. The National household
survey of 1996/7 indicates that the closest medical service is the
traditional healer, located an average 1.5 km from the rural household.
Doctors on the other hand are on average 46 km away, and a health post 19
km away. Data on where people in the average village receive health care
reflect the access data. Traditional healers treat 94 percent of the
people in the average village, nurses 179, midwives 20t and doctors only 2
In 1997 about 44 percent of deliveries were assisted by a health
- 4 -



professional, and 47 W of children aged 12-23 months received full
immunization. While service outputs per capita are increasing, they are
unequally distributed with Maputo City residents receiving the best care.
Within the provinces, Zambezia (the largest) stands out as the one with
the lowest care units per person. The efficiency of the system has been
improving gradually, with care units per staff person in 1999 up 12 W over
the 1993 level. The quality of care is still low however, as the stark
statistics in the previous paragraphs indicate. The public health system
in Mozambique is stretched thin, as it attempts to provide coverage for a
large, dispersed and poor rural population. Resource allocations have
gradually increased, from 9 W of the recurrent budget in 1998 to 13.4 W in
2000. However, coverage will only improve significantly once incomes
increase and families are able to finance service delivery from the
private sector. Total expenditure on public health in 1997 was $ 140
million, about $ 9.3 per capita.
Government Strategy
In 1986 the first case of AIDS was verified in Mozambique. In 1988 the
Ministry of Health initiated the National AIDS Control Program -- which
developed three medium term plans over the course of the next decade, in
the battle against HIV/AIDS. In 1988 and 1990 this Ministry led a
multisectoral, cross institutional group which included not only
Government, but also civil society, NGOs and donors, in the formulation of
the first National Strategic Plan to Combat HIV/AIDS and STDs.
The Council of Ministers passed the first Strategic Plan to Combat
HIV/AIDS and STD in October 1999. It is a three year plan (2000 - 2002)
and required an additional US $ 40 million for its implementation. The
Plan proposed the creation of an Inter-Ministerial AIDS Commission (a
National Council to Combat HIV/AIDS -- CNCS -- was approved in May 2000)
and set out Guiding Principles as follows : (i) addressing priority
vulnerable groups -- those most vulnerable to infection and impact (young
people especially girls, highly mobile adults such as soldiers, miners,
prisoners, drivers, and commercial sex workers) and reducing impact for
those living with HIV/AIDS. (ii) ensuring relevance -- activities funded
should be those identified by the vulnerable groups as contributing most
to reducing infection rates and impact of the disease; (iii) involving
people living with HIV/AIDS -- recruiting them as activists and giving
them status hence reducing stigma; and (iv) focussing action on the three
main transport corridors (Maputo, Beira and Nacala) and the communities in
and around them.    The national response would be to focus on quality and
coverage of essential health and care services for the whole population as
well as the vulnerable groups. Institutions should be helped to overcome
bureaucratic and financial obstacles to action, and a premium would be
placed on multisectoral cooperation agreements amongst all actors at
various levels to carry out target activities. Emphasis is placed on
having this multisectoral approach prevail at the macro and the community
level.
The HIV/AIDS campaign had been led, since its inception in the late 1980s,
by the Ministry of Health which set up the National Program for Combating
AIDS. During the initial decade, a broad educational and awareness
building program was developed, with wide participation by civil society
and NGOs. Condom distribution went up rapidly, reaching 10 million per
- 5 -



annum by 2000. In spite of this, infection rates have also increased
rapidly, with prevalence going from under 1 W in 1990 to 12 W in 2000.
This rapid rate of infection infused new urgency into the program, and
caused Government to try and broaden the campaign.     The recent approval
of the National Strategy, the creation of the National Council and its
Secretariat, and the shift in leadership to these new bodies brought a
period of change, as the new, broader, multisectoral institutions were put
in place. During the first year of implementation, plans were developed
for each Ministry and each Province, the Secretariat to the CNCS staffed
and located in an office, and a donor Round Table held which yielded
commitments of US$ 120 million from donors in support of the National
Program (not all of it incremental funding). During the second year, with
the new leadership now in place, nationally run activities began to gear
up. The focus was on prevention. The Secretariat to the CNCS put
professional staff in place in every province, linked to the Governor's
office, and began its cross-sectoral advocacy (to "Break the Silence").
It also established coordination functions at all levels and locations of
both the Government and the NGOs and private sector activists. A national
Coordination Forum was held in March 2001, and again in May 2002.
Thematic groups were formed around themes such as prevention, home based
care, VCT centers and orphan care. A broad national communication program
was launched with assistance from local artists. During the year new
associations of People Living With HIV/AIDS were formed in Nampula,
Inhambane and Sofala -- now come together in a network of PLWHA in
Mozambique.    Also during 2000, the coverage of the surveillance centers
was greatly expanded -- from 4 to 20 centers -- providing much more
accurate assessments of the coverage and severity of the epidemic.
The Government has recently adopted a policy on ARV treatment, set out in
Ministerial Diploma No 183-A/2001 published December 18, 2001 Under this
policy, Government would develop its capability to monitor and support ARV
treatment in the general population, while at the same time strengthening
its capacity to treat and care for patients with opportunistic infections
and diseases which result from AIDS. The Government would charge for the
'reference' services provided in the monitoring of ARV treatment, and the
medication would have to be provided by the patient, or some source other
than Government.   An exception to this is made in the case of preventing
Mother to Child Transmission, and in the case of health workers who are
infected during the course of their work. Here, the Government finances
the cost of ARV treatment, in addition to the follow-up and monitoring
costs.
The Executive Secretariat to the National AIDS Council has been
established under exceptional administrative, financial and personnel
management conditions. Standard civil service procedures have been set
aside for a more flexible apparatus, which allows for the contracting of
staff at market salaries, the design and implementation of a 'purpose
built' financial management and program monitoring system, and an openness
to measures needed to improve effectiveness, including hiring in functions
as needed.   An Institutional Assessment was completed in December 2002
and provides a roadmap for building an institution capable of discharging
its functions in the expanded program.    The Secretariat to date has
developed a proposal for a pooling mechanism for donor funds (the Common
Fund), a Civil Society Facility for Community Projects, and is
formulating a national monitoring and evaluation strategy and a
- 6 -



communications strategy (see Section C4).    These functions should be
underway by the end of 2002, which the CNCS has labeled the year for
Quality and Integration.
Following a period of stock taking and reorganization into a broader, more
multisectoral campaign, with larger more forceful presence in the
provinces, the National Council is now ready to launch a much broader and
more aggressive campaign. It is for that reason that it has approached
IDA (along with the Global Fund) for financial support.
The Mozambican strategy and approach to the HIV/AIDS campaign is one which
conforms well with access criteria set out by the Bank for its
Multi-country AIDS Program for Africa (see Section D4) in that a coherent
national campaign strategy has been formulated and is under
implementation, a high level council has been established to lead the
campaign, and the Government is taking extraordinary institutional
measures to ensure effective implementation of the program.
2. Objectives
The project will assist the Government of Mozambique to finance the
implementation of its National Strategic Plan to Combat STD and HIV/AIDS.
The strategy is designed to slow the spread of HIV/AIDS infection and
mitigate the effects of the epidemic, through prevention, care, treatment
and mitigation activities. The National Strategic Plan is multisectoral
in nature, bringing together the efforts of Government, civil society,
private sector and communities in a national campaign to slow the rate of
infection and provide care for those who suffer from the disease, and for
those who depend on them. The effort is led by a National Council to
Combat AIDS, chaired by the Prime Minister, which includes key Ministers
and leaders in civil society in its membership. The strategy is funded
from the National Budget and various local and international bilateral and
multilateral contributors, including the United Nations agencies and
potentially the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The
design of the Mozambique strategy is well suited for support by the Bank
under its Multicountry HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region (MAP II), as
it meets all of the strategic and institutional criteria for inclusion
(see Section D4). The Bank's MAP II for US $ 500 million was approved at
the Board on February 7, 2002 (Doc No. IDA/R2002-4).
The project will: (i) improve institutional capacity for planning,
delivery and monitoring of HIV/AIDS response interventions through all
levels of Government and its line ministries, civil society and the
private sector, with a focus on vulnerable groups; (ii) strengthen
delivery of health services providing prevention and care, giving priority
to the more vulnerable regions of the country, such services to include
voluntary testing and counselling services and treatment of sexually
transmitted diseases and opportunistic infections related to HIV/AIDS;
(iii) enable Government at the national level and regions, as well as
through its line ministries, to carry out programs advocating prevention
and providing care for its own staff and communities; and (iv) fund a
variety of projects led by civil society, including the private sector,
and carried out in urban and rural communities, which cover HIV/AIDS
related prevention, advocacy, public awareness creation and care for
orphans and PLWHA, with a focus on the needs of vulnerable groups.
- 7-



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The rationale for World Bank involvement includes:
The World Bank can add substantially to the resources available to support
a broad multi-agent, multi-sectoral program -- particularly in an
environment in which the Government is committed to increasing service
delivery, outreach and advocacy through a multiplicity of institutions and
agencies.
The Bank can bring to bear its broad experience in funding HIV/AIDS
campaigns around the world, including in Portuguese speaking countries
such as Brasil and Cabo Verde, where specific media and communications
materials, assessments and operational manuals and expertise can be
identified for Mozambican use.
The Bank has much experience in the mechanics of such national programs,
particularly in dealing with financial and procurement issues affecting
Government agencies and communities. This experience, translated into
operational guidelines and manuals, can help Mozambique structure its own
institutions to manage the campaign and deliver the services.
The Bank has access to a broad range of international contacts which (when
combined with the networks offered by the UN system and UNAIDS in
particular) will enable Mozambique to visit -- be aware of -- and consult
with -- those national programs which have been most effective, and which
have the closest similarity and applicability to the Mozambican cultural,
geographic and economic situation.
By virtue of its financial presence, its technical expertise, its
multilateral ownership, its close links to the key economic and social
sectors in Government, and its global network, the World Bank can assist
the Secretariat to the National Council to develop strategic positions and
overcome coordination problems -- to the benefit of the campaign.
4. Description
The objective of the project is to slow the spread of HIV infection in
Mozambique, and mitigate the effects of AIDS, through prevention and care
activities. The design process, led by the Executive Secretariat to the
CNCS has been transparent and participatory, carried out in frequent
consultation with the Ministry of Health and other Government agencies,
NGOs, private sector, donors and other stakeholders. The project has five
components as described briefly below. Implementation issues are discussed
in section C 4.
(i) Community and Civil Society Initiatives (- US$ 28 million) -- This
component would empower communities to respond effectively to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic. A central activity would be mobilizing communities, promoting
local initiatives and strengthening the capacity of local actors. A
Community and Civil Society Facility held by the CNCS would be created to
finance appropriate HIV/AIDS related activities carried out by eligible
applicants. These include community and faith-based organizations, NGOs,
the private sector, associations and other organizations. The management
of the facility would be decentralized to the provincial level, in support
of a provincial program to combat HIV/AIDS. Significant resources would be
invested at the Province level to strengthen the Secretariat and other
organizations -- public, private and NGOs -- to carry out the program.
Criteria and procedures for project preparation and approval are specified
in the Operational Manual, and cover: (i) the principles of operation;
(ii) eligible applicants; (iii) institutional arrangements and
facilitating agents; (iv) eligible activities, (v) the allocation of
- 8 -



resources by province, and (vi) the features of the project
identification, preparation, approval and supervision cycle. Activities
to be funded, all of which link to the HIV/AIDS campaign, include dramatic
representations, seminars and talks to emphasize prevention, seminars and
other kinds of assistance providing guidance and support to care-givers
and those providing foster homes for orphans and widows, schemes for
generating income to replace losses due to AIDS deaths, and guidance on
treatment for oportunistic diseases, and ARVs. The implementation process
is designed to be managed in a decentralized fashion, with support and
decisions making occurring at provincial level. The process should be
open and participatory, with the main stakeholders represented on a
provincial Technical Council which will oversee the process. Subprojects
would be for two or three year duration. Subprojects valued at less than $
20,000 would be approved at the provincial level. A maximum project size
of $ 100,000 is envisioned. Facilitating Agents, potentially NGOs or
private sector entities, would be contracted to work with community agents
to foster program identification and project preparation at the community
level, and the preparation of project proposals to be funded by the
Community and Civil Society Facility.    One set aside of US$ 5 million
from the CCSF is allocated to support large NGOs providing voluntary
counselling and testing services and supplementary health care services
related to HIV/AIDS in collaboration with, and under the supervision of,
the Ministry of Health. A second set aside of US$ 2 million will be used
to support HIV/AIDS initiatives to be carried out by the private sector,
under conditions set out in the Operations Manual.
(ii) Capacity Building for the Civil Society HIV/AIDS Response (- US$ 5.5
million) -- this component will support efforts to create AIDS competent
communities by improving skills and increasing implementation capacity for
the implementers, supporters, and target groups active under the Community
and Civil Society Initiatives. Activites to be funded would include (i)
hiring and training 'Facilitating Agents' who would take the lead, in each
province, in identifying and training up organizations for community
mobilization; (ii) courses and activities to build awareness development
and build capacity for leadership in the public sector, civil society and
the private sector, and (iii) and the formulation of training modules in
HIV/AIDS awareness for use in public and private sector enterprises.
Specialized packages of Information, Education and Communications (IEC)
materials would be developed and distributed through this effort.
(iii)  Government Multisector Response     (- US$ 7 million) -- Ministries
and subordinate institutions will be supported under this component in the
development and implementation of HIV/AIDS related programs directed
toward their own personnel (particularly high risk staff such as soldiers,
police, extension agents, teachers, health workers) and their families,
as well as programs directed toward their clients. Under this component,
ministries are encouraged to expand their activities in the area of
HIV/AIDS according to the National Strategic Plan for combating HIV/AIDS
and the Ministerial Plans. The program will therefore concentrate on
non-health ministries and other key public sector institutions to
effectively respond to the epidemic. Emphasis will be made on prevention
and care for infected and affected families. The activities included in
the program for financing are categorised in two parts: part (i) will
focus on staff and their families by providing them with HIV/AIDS
education, training, condoms, support for caring for infected and
-9-



affected, encouraging behavioural change, and destigmatizing the illness
at the work place; and part (ii) will focus on the external clients of
the respective ministries. It is envisaged that the second part
activities will have a close link with activities to be implemented under
the civil society component. Support will be provided to facilitate
respective outreach programs of various ministries. These would include
community based activities involving youth associations, sporting clubs,
cultural groups, farmers clubs, women's groups, street children, orphans,
teachers, school councils, parents-teacher associations, activists, and
any other groups as may be identified with relevant agencies.      In each
of the line ministries, a Focal Point will be identified who will be
supported by ministerial and/or departmental management committees
designated to oversee the design and carrying out of HIV/AIDS related
policies and action plans. The Focal Points will receive training and
day-to-day guidance of their roles and responsibilities form the Ministry
Response Coordinator situated at CNCS head office. As the case may be,
the project will facilitate the operations of the Focal Points through
ensuring availability of basic office equipment, facilities, and
incremental operating costs. With guidance from the Provincial Government
and the Ministry of State Administration, District Administrators would be
engaged to foster the development of District HIV/AIDS plans.
(iv) Strengthening and Scaling Up Health Sector Services for HIV/AIDS (~
US$17.5 million) -- With the objective of scaling up the response of the
health sector to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and to provide technical leadership
on treatment and care for people living with HIV/AIDS, this component
would include: (i) the strengthening of the Integrated Health Network
providing voluntary counselling and testing and HIV/AIDS related services
in the four provinces in the center of the country (Tete, Manica, Sofala
and Zambezia) where prevalence rates are highest, and where there is still
no significant upscaling program underway; (ii) increasing the supply of
HIV/AIDS related drugs and materials, such as the supply of condoms, drugs
to treat opportunistic infections, anti-retrovirals for the reduction of
MTCT and post exposure prophylaxis; (iii) strengthening clinical
laboratory capacity to enable diagnosis and monitoring of HIV therapy
including those for CD4 monitoring and diagnosis of opportunistic
infections; (iv) measures to enhance bio-security; (v) measures to enhance
blood safety; (vi) training and antiretroviral drugs for post-exposure
profilaxis for health sector workers; (vii) improved management of
opportunistic infections, focussing on their prevention via prophylaxis,
as well as their treatment as mentioned; and (viii) improved management
monitoring and evaluation of the component and the overall progress of the
epidemic. In line with Government priorities, and consonant with the
distribution of current efforts to combat the epidemic, the project would
support the strengthening of a network of health centers in the center of
the country, in order to respond to the high prevalence rates and density
of vulnerable groups. These centers would be specialized in providing
voluntary counselling and testing for HIV, treatment for STDs, guidance
and training for individuals and associations in ARV treatment, and
guidance in Home Based Care for PLWHA and their families, and orphans.
They would be established under the guidelines and with overall
supervision and monitoring from the Ministry of Health. Modern health care
in Mozambique is heavily reliant on public sector delivery in urban
areas. In rural areas, the public sector is the only source of modern
health care, with few exceptions. The component would focus on
- 10 -



strengthening the strategic planning and monitoring capabilities of the
Ministry, as well as its capacity to deliver care. However, due to
current capacity limitations in the Ministry, operations linked to
HIV/AIDS such as voluntary counselling and testing and support for home
based care, would be contracted out initially to NGOs and other partners.
These contracts are costed under the Community and Civil Society
Initiatives component, as they will be funded from the Community and Civil
Society Facility. The World Bank has supported the development of the
health care system in Mozambique since 1995 through the Health Care
Recovery Project. This component, focussing on HIV/AIDS related care,
will build on the accomplishments in the prior operation. Results and
achievements under the Health Care Recovery Project are reviewed in
section D2.
(v) Institutional Development for Program Management (- US$ 6 million)
-- This component would target the Executive Secretariat of the National
Council, strengthening its capacity to lead the country in the campaign.
The CNCS Secretariat is one of two implementing agencies for the IDA
Grant, the other being the Ministry of Health. Under this component the
CNCS will significantly improve its capacity to coordinate the National
HIV/AIDS Program and carry out project management.     This includes
carrying out overall planning, budgeting and coordination of the National
Aids Program, catalyzing greater involvement by society in the HIV/AIDS
response, channeling of funds to implementing agents and monitoring of
program execution to ensure compliance with Program objectives and
fiduciary responsibilities. A major objective is to build the capacity of
the CNCS provincial nucleos to undertake responsibility for planning,
mobilizing and channeling resources, and coordinating and monitoring of
HIV/AIDS activities in a particular province. Institutional development
efforts include: (i) capacity building for the CNCS Board and the
Executive Secretariat; (ii) strengthening organizational arrangements and
financial management at the center and province; (iii) strengthening
monitoring and evaluation; (iv) formulation and monitoring of a national
communications strategy; (v) creation of a supportive regulatory
environment and (vi) building a strong coalition across civil society and
donors at national and provincial level in support of a multi-agent,
multi-faceted community based approach to HIV/AIDS prevention, care and
treatment in Mozambique. A key principle of the HIV/AIDS program is that
the Secretariat is charged with coordination and oversight, but actual
implementation of programs would be contracted out to NGOs or private
sector or other civil society agents, or invested in line agencies.
Further information on these tasks is provided in Section E 4.
Indicative Project Costs are listed below:
Community and Civil Society Initiatives
Capacity Building for Civil Society HIV/AIDS Response
Government Multisectoral Response
Strengthening and Scaling Up Health Sector HIV/AIDS
Institutional Development for Program Management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $9.00
IBRD
IDA



IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS $55.00
Total Project Cost $64.00
6. Implementation
Implementation Period -- 5 years
Government Institutions
The National Council to Combat HIV/AIDS was approved by the Council of
Ministers in 2000 -- as part of the National Strategy. The members of the
Council and its Executive Secretary were in place by mid 2000.      The
National Council is headed by the Prime Minister (President), and
includes: (i) Government : Six Ministries as follows: Minister of
Health (Vice President), Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation;
Minister of Finance and Planning, Minister of Women and Social Action,
Minister of Youth and Sports; and Minister of Education; (ii)
Nongovernment Organizations:    Five NGOs as follows:   MONASO (the umbrella
NGO for AIDS), Kindlimuka (the largest NGO for PLWHA), AMODEFA (provides
health care), OMM (present in almost every community), ADPP (with Danish
affiliation, involved in education); (iii) Individuals from Civil Society
a Frelimo Parliamentarian; the Rector of the Catholic University, and
the Head of a prominent Youth Association.
The Executive Secretariat to the National Council has been given the
mandate to lead, catalyse, coordinate and monitor all activities in
support of the National Strategy -- while not involving itself in the
actual implementation of programs. It functions in close cooperation with
the Ministry of Health. The Secretariat has established a National Office
in Maputo, and a Provincial Nucleus in each of the ten provinces. Headed
by the Executive Secretary, the agency is divided into a Planning and
Budgeting Unit, a Technical Unit, and a Project Support Unit. Over the
past two years, a network of HIV/AIDS focal points has been created across
Government and the Provinces.     Every Ministry has named an AIDS focal
point, and while some Ministries have developed an indicative Ministry
Plan to Combat HIV/AIDS -- few of these are actually being implemented.
Focal point functions remain incipient, and weak in influence and power.
In addition, the Secretariat has worked with each Province to formulate a
Provincial Plan to Combat HIV/AIDS --- in an effort to mobilize provincial
Government and civil society within the province. Many of these plans are
still dormant, for lack of funding and leadership.
The Executive Secretariat has also convened two National Fora to review
the status of the HIV/AIDS Campaign -- one in March 2001, and a second in
May 2002.     This event, which is expected to continue to occur annually,
brings together all the key institutions active in the HIV/AIDS campaign,
from both Government and civil society, for two days of review,
reflection, guidance and training.
Civil Society Institutions
Civil society has formed an umbrella NGO, to lead on all aspects of the
campaign: MONASO. While they have limited capacity at the national
level, they are well recognized in the large urban centers, including
Maputo, and they serve as a center for discussion and coordination for
AIDS related topics with NGOs.     A society of PLWHA -- Kindlimuka --
plays a lead advocacy role, mainly in the South of the country. In
addition, there are a large number of local and international NGOs who,
working collaboratively, are active in the HIV/AIDS field. The
international NGOs have grouped themselves into an association called
NAIMO, and include Medecines Sans Frontiers, PSI, CARE, ADPP, World Vision
and others. The CNCS Executive Secretariat is also active in coordinating
- 12 -



the activities of civil society at a national level.      A series of four
thematic groups have been created, to bring together the many NGOs, donors
and private sector participants engaged in HIV/AIDS awareness building or
care activities. These groups cover: (i) Prevention; (ii) Home based
Care; (iii) Voluntary Counselling and Testing; and (iv) the care of child
Orphans. The level of involvement of the NGOs in the campaign depends on
the activity and the Province.     Associations of Persons Living With
HIV/AIDS have been formed in Maputo (Kindlimuka) and are in the process of
being set up in Inhambane (UTOMI), Nampula (Nivenyee), Sofala (Kulupira)
and Manica (Kubatsirana). The CNCS Provincial Coordinators in Niassa,
Cabo Delgado, Nampula, Zambezia, Tete, Manica, Sofala, Inhambane, Gaza,
Maputo Province and Maputo City have brought together groups of NGOs,
churches, private companies and other actors to carry forward the
campaign. Funding for these activities is largely provided from own
sources, or from donor funds designated for the purpose, and such funding
has been scarce. A Civil Society Fund is proposed under the project, to
respond civil society's needs.
Donor Support
To date, the donors have channelled most of their support through NGOs,
the UN System, or civil society organizations. Due to the diversity of
implementation channels and contracting mechanisms, it is difficult to
track all the activities, or account for all the donor funds being used in
the campaign. The donors with the largest program commitments (multi-year
data, which makes comparisons difficult) include DFID with US$ 30 million,
the USAID (and CDC) with some US$ 28 million, followed by Denmark with US$
11 million, the UN system with $ 10 million (where UNFPA and UNICEF
provide over half the total, and where there may be some double counting
of donor contributions), Norway with US$ 7 million, the European Union
with US $ 6 million (for Mozambique, out of a larger allocation for
regional SADC and Africa wide initiatives), Germany with $ 5 million, and
then Canada, Australia, France, Italy, and Netherlands with between $1 and
$3 million each. Ireland and Spain made contributions as well.
The donors have a group which meets regularly to coordinate HIV/AIDS and
Health activities. The CNCS Secretariat is also active in donor
coordination and resource mobilization. In November 2000 and again in
November 2001, the Executive Secretariat organized a Donor round table in
Maputo, to report on the Government's activities in the implementation of
the National Plan, and to raise funding. The first Roundtable in 2000
raised commitments from of donors of $ 120 million (for multiyear
implementation).    In the second Roundtable in 2001, the Common Fund was
introduced, as a mechanism for pooling donor funds received in support of
all activities in the HIV/AIDS campaign.     This event raised in the order
of US$ 10 million from donors as a contribution to the Common Fund. It is
the hope of the Executive Secretariat that, once the issues regarding
review and governance procedures and the financial management and
reporting systems have been ironed out, donors will see fit to channel an
increasing share of their support via the Common Fund.
Implementation of the IDA Funded Activities
At the national level the CNCS Executive Secretariat would coordinate
implementation of all the activities funded under the project. The
Secretariat has been building up the capacity to operate in a
decentralized fashion over the past two years. An office has been
established in each Province, and staffed with a Provincial coordinator
and a financial specialist. Financial management and monitoring systems
have been designed. However, very few programs have been funded through
- 13 -



the CNCS Secretariat to date, for lack of own funds. During preparation
for the IDA project, an Institutional Assessment has been carried out, and
will be used to recommend on ways to strengthen the Secretariat, to the
CNCS Board. The assessment will also guide IDA's investments under the
Program Coordination component, and its recommendations for project
implementation. The implementation of the PPF, due to be initiated in
October, 2002, will enable the Secretariat, and other implementing
agencies, to test different insitutional modalities, thresholds,
preparation and review procedures, which will be included in the final
consolidated Operational Manual.
Under this umbrella, there would be two coordination foci: (i) the
Executive Secretariat, which would hold two Special Accounts, one to
finance the Civil Society Facility, and a second one to finance the
remaining components, with the exception of the health component; and (ii)
the Ministry of Health, which would receive its funds directly from IDA
via a third Special Account, and would implement its agreed workplan for
the Health Sector component. Project implementation, financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation would be operated
through the institutional management and accounting systems of the
Executive Secretariat and of the Ministry of Health.
All aspects of implementation of the program, and the Bank funded project
are set out in the Operational Manual. The manual sets out performance
objectives, institutional modalities, criteria and processes. It also has
model forms and contracts to guide the various actors during the
implementation period The manual has been prepared in a participatory
fashion, led by the CNCS, and will be reviewed and agreed on with the the
Government and stakeholders prior to Grant effectiveness. Procedures and
institutional arrangements set out in the Manual are to be tested under
the IDA funded Project Preparation Facility of $ 880,000.
Implementation of the Community and Civil Society Initiatives and the
Civil Society Capacity Building components would be delegated to a large
number of insititutions, in the NGO, private and public sector, best
placed to lead HIV/AIDS campaign activities in their particular
community. These organizations would be appraised by the Secretariat, or
institutions contracted to the Secretariat, prior to entering into funding
agreements with them. A training and strengthening building program would
be put in place to strengthen administrative capacity for local
institutions with the mandate, interest and community relationshios needed
to carry out HIV/AIDS related activities. The activities under this, the
largest component, would be carried out following the procedures and
criteria set out in the Operational Manual. Promotion, preparation,
review and approval procedures and thresholds and structures are based on
a decentralized management structure. They have been designed based on
experience to date with this kind of program in country, and in other
parts of Africa. The structure and approval points and thresholds will be
tested under the PPF, and may need to be revisited by the CNCS
management. IDA would need to be consulted on any changes in such
thresholds and procedures.     In addition, certain financial and
monitoring activities may need to be outsourced by the Secretiariat. An
assessment of potential workload and number of transactions should guide
the capacity building and the decisionmaking on the option of in-house as
opposed to out sourcing. We recognize the overall shortage of
professionals in financial management in the country and recommend a
careful workload assessment and decision making as to how much capacity
should be built in-house and how much should be targeted for out sourcing.
- 14 -



The component supporting the Government Multisectoral Response would be
implemented by each of the sectoral ministries, making use of their
internal management and financial systems, strengthened to carry the
HIV/AIDS related activities with funds provided under the project.
Ministries would not be funded unless they had an HIV/AIDS action plan
approved by the CNCS, with a focal point and an HIV/AIDS office in place.
The Ministry of Health would implement the Scaling Up of Health Care
Services component by making use of management systems developed in the
course of implementing the Bank funded Health Recovery Project (Cr
27880). Recently, the MOH has developed a financial management system and
an epidemiological monitoring system which are already operational.
Project coordination would be the responsibility of the CNCS
Secretariat.   The Secretariat is receiving support for institutional
strengthening under a project funded by USAID which includes technical
assistance, hardware and training for the design and installation of a
purpose built financial management system, and a national database of
HIV/AIDS related activities. These will result in the production of all
procedures manuals and training in the operation of the systems.
Technical assistance on the financial side is provided by two
internationally recognized management consulting and auditing firms.
Technical assistance on the activities database and monitoring is provided
by the Centers for Disease Control. Design of these systems has been
completed, and training is underway. The CNCS is also in the process of
recruitment of accountants and internal auditors based on the proposed
design and structure of the internal control systems. The UNDP is also
funding a capacity strengthening program for the CNCS, which is in its
first year. This project will provide technical assistance to support
internal training programs, and staff to strengthen the coordination of
the Civil Society Initiatives component at Provincial level. The Bank
funded project would provide additional financial, procurement and program
staff, along the the requisite hardware and training, as needed to enable
the decentralized coordination of the growing HIV/AIDS program.
Financial Management, Accounting and Auditing
As noted above and described more fully in Annex 6, the Secretariat would
be responsible to the Government, the Bank and other donors for ensuring
that sound financial management principles were used in support of program
implementation. Significant resources (provided by USAID) have been
invested in the design and setup of financial management and
administrative systems for the Secretariat. A management consulting and
auditing firm of international repute has been contracted to carry out
these tasks. After over a year of effort, a purpose designed accounting
system is in place (which is designed to respond to the reporting needs of
both the donors and the Government), the hardware has been purchased and
installed at the center and all provincial offices, financial management
staff have been hired for all locations, and comprehensive training
programs are underway. The Secretariat has an Administrative Manual,
which establishes personnel management policies and the procedures for
maintenance and management of its assets.
A separate contract has been entered into with another international
management consulting and auditing firm, to design and put in place a
financial system for tracking funds received from donors for use in
- 15 -



support of Community and Civil Society Initiatives. This system is now
operational, and being used for the funds received to date from the Irish
Government and the DFID.
An internal auditing function for the Secretariat has been designed, and
two auditors have been hired to provide continuous visits to the
provincial offices to ensure procedures are being followed.
Executing agencies of the project include the Secretariat and its eleven
Provincial Nuclei, the Ministry of Health, the various Ministries which
receive support for their HIV/AIDS programs, the larger NGOs who lead in
the civil society initiatives, and a multitude of recipients of funds at
the local and community level (including NGOs, CBOs, and Private Sector
companies). Agents responsible for the use of funds provided under the
project will be appraised by the Secretariat prior to entering into
funding arrangements with them. Forms and procedures are spelled out in
the Operational Manual. A capacity building program has been designed to
bring agents under the project up the appropriate level of financial and
administrative sophistication (this will vary by the magnitude of the
funding involved) prior to providing implementation responsibility. The
program will rely on other sources to strengthen agents' internal control
structures. The Government is improving its own financial and
administrative structures under the SISTAFE program supported by the
Bank's Public Sector Reform project. A number of NGOs receive support
from donors, or from their international affiliates, and will be required
to provide assurances of good fiduciary practices. In particular, there
will be a number of large NGOs (most of them of international origin) who
will carry out voluntary counselling and testing, training in home based
care, and treatment for opportunistic diseases -- under the technical
supervision of the Ministry of Health -- who will be financed from the
Civil Society Initiatives fund. Specific forms and procedures will be
designed under the PPF for use in this activity, which has been budgeted
at up to $ 5 million over the project period.
The Ministry of Health would be responsible for the implementation of the
Upscaling of Health Services component. Due to the volume of funds to be
managed under this component, a separate Special Account will be
established for the Ministry of Health. Voluntary counselling and testing
and other health care functions, contracted out initially to large
international NGOs with sufficient capacity and expertise, will be
supervised by the Ministry of Health, but funded by the Secretariat under
the civil society initiatives component. The Project Management Office
(GACOPI) in the Ministry of Health which has supported the implementation
of the IDA funded Heath Sector Recovery Project (IDA Credit 27880) since
1996, will be strengthened in order to have it continue to provide both
procurement and financial services to the Ministry of Health and the
Secretariat (for large international purchases) under the proposed project.
Consistent with guidelines issued by the Financial Management Board to
ensure compliance with OP/BP 10.02, during the appraisal mission a Bank
AFTQK team carried out its assessment of financial systems, procedures
and capacities to determine whether, when project implementation starts,
there will be adequate financial management systems and capacity in place
to ensure the production of reliable and useful reports on the project
resources and expenditures and other useful information on a timely
manner. The conclusions of this assessment are in Annex 6. A final
- 16 -



review of the financial management system and capacity will be carried out
by the Bank staff to assess readiness, before the Grant is declared
effective.
Planning and Budgeting
The planning and budgeting cycle has been designed to fit the National
Budget. Annual budget requests would be prepared at the provincial level
by mid-year, within ceilings provided by the Secretariat. Allocations for
the annual funding of community and civil society activities for each
province would be arrived at following criteria based on population,
prevalence and prior year performance. The budget requests would be
reviewed at provincial and central level, and then consolidated for
presentation to the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Approval of the
final allocaation and spending authority from the National Budget would be
received prior to the start of the fiscal (calendar) year. In addition,
the budget request would be submitted to the Bank and donors for comment
and review, at an annual event to be organized in a fashion which follows
successful precedents set in the Sector Wide Approach used for
Agriculture, Health and Education in Mozambique.
The approvals for civil society initiatives would be carried out over the
course of the year, using procedures, criteria and thresholds provided in
the Operations Manual. Support for the Community and Civil Society
Initiatives component, and the Civil Society Capacity Building component
would be through a decentralized, province-based program management
system. The planning and budgeting exercise for these components was
initiated in the 2002 budgeting cycle. The provincial plans have been
carried to a reasonable level of detail, although further work will be
needed before they can be implemented.    The formulation of consolidated
Provincial plans has been well executed, and will provide an excellent
basis for a decentralized planning and implementation process.     The
planning and budgeting for the Multisectoral Ministry Response component
takes place at the central level. Indicative ministerial plans had been
prepared a year ago. The Secretariat is working with each of the ten key
Ministries in the formulation of a much tighter, targeted, program, to fit
within the available resources. So far the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development has presented a coherent proposal, and the ministries of
Education, Health and Youth and Sports are not far behind. While the
planning and budgeting procedures have been set out and discussed at the
central level, much further training and documentation is needed at the
Province level to put in place participatory systems which will produce
plans which reflect local capacity, and can indeed be implemented. These
needs will be addressed under the project.
Procurement
The Secretariat has defined positions and is hiring staff to carry out the
procurement process to be used in each of the components, in a manner
consistent with the appropriate Bank guidelines. The Secretariat intends
to rely on the office of GACOPI in the Ministry of Health for any large
procurement procedure, including any international competitive bidding. A
Procurement Plan has been prepared as part of the draft Project
Implementation Plan -- and procedures and thresholds for each item have
been set out in Annex 6 and the draft Operational Manual. A large share
of the project will be used as grants in support of a large number of
small community development subprojects, and will be subject to simplified
procedures specified in the Operational Manual.
Monitoring and Evaluation
- 17 -



The current M and E framework is characterized by one component that is
well developed (the biological subcomponent of the surveillance system),
one component that is under active development (financial monitoring) and
two components that require further attention (the overall M and E
architecture and program activity monitoring). The status of the system
as a whole is described in more detail in Annex 2. The design of the
overall M and E architecture is well advanced. The M and E manuals and
the Country Response Information System (CRIS) represent major
contributions. The indicator sets that have been developed are of high
quality, and reflect intensive commitment and consultation. However,
these indicators may be too complex to be implemented initially, and a
more simple set has been agreed on for startup. In addition, to bring the
system architecture to a position where implementation can be initiated,
there is a need for: (i) a single governing flowchart and database, to
ensure that all information is captured in a single structured form; and
(ii) a single unitary system, based on nationally agreed data collection
forms and pathways, leading to a single data base.     External consultants
will be hired under the project to work on further refinement of the
system, and assist in startup activities. Periodic assessments of key
aspects of the program will be organized by the Secretariat and carried
out under contract. These will provide the background and material for
annual Learning Events and Progress Reviews by all stakeholders, starting
at the provincial level and leading to a National Assessment. Other
learning events and study tours would be built into the program.
Operations Manual
A draft Operations Manual has been prepared, in close consultation with
the Secretariat, and is under discussion. During appraisal the review was
extended to donors, NGOs and other stakeholders who are likely to make use
of the procedures spelled out therein. An effort has been made to define
the general institutional framework for the program, and to delineate the
strategies, policies and procedures for financial management and
procurement to be followed by the Secretariat in coordinating
implementation of the program as a whole.    Separate sections have then
been set aside to describe the procedures required by particular donors,
with a special section for the World Bank. The manual covers not only the
financial management and procurement procedures required by the Banks
fiduciary regulations, but also the appraisal procedures, thresholds,
guidelines, criteria, and forms, as well as contractual and supervision
procedures to be used in the implementation of the Community and Civil
Society Initiatives component --- the component with the largest financial
allocation, and the largest number of participating institutions, under
the project. The Operations Manual will include (and be consistent with)
overlapping sections of the Administrative Manual, and the Financial
Systems Manual (mentioned above). The draft Operations Manual will be the
focus for an extended process of consultation and review within the
Secretariat, the CNCS Board, the donors, and the larger NGOs who will be
called on to follow the procedures. A final version of the manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be ready prior to Grant effectiveness.
- 18 -



7. Sustainability
In order to be sustainable and effective the following conditions should
hold:
(i) the social and cultural environment will have to change in order to:
(i) reduce the social stigma associated with HIV/AIDS, (ii) increase the
openness and freedom to talk freely about sexual behavior -- and the risks
of promiscuity, and unprotected sex; and (iii) increase the power of women
to determine their sexual choices and behaviour.
(ii) the legal and regulatory environment will have to be maintained, or
improve, to avoid discrimination against those who are HIV positive;
(iii) the management of the project (and the National HIV/AIDS program)
will have to maintain and continue to demonstrate its financial
accountability and programatic integrity -- so that additional resources
can be mobilized from local and international sources in support of a
centrally directed campaign
(iv) capacity building for local NGOs, CBOs and Private business will have
to be successful -- as the program will only be sustainable, and have an
impact, if those few institutions receiving strengthening and capacity
building programs are in fact made more effective and aggressive -- and
capable of mobilizing resources on their own account. They in turn will
then be able to go out to create management capacity and implementation
capability in community institutions -- which can then mobilize resources
from the communities themselves to sustain their activities..
(v) Government should sharply increase the local resources devoted to the
campaign. Its reliance on donor funding for upscaling seems to indicate
that it is leaving the funding for this very high priority battle to the
whims of international financial agencies and donors.
(vi) The expansion of health services and the training and skills
enhancement of healthcare workers will have to be in place.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This project will incorporate in its design the lessons learned in the
course of designing and supervising implementation of the eleven projects
which have been approved under Multicountry HIV/AIDS Programs 1 and 2.
The main lessons learned are set forth in pages 11-13 of the MAP 2 Report
P 7497 AFR and are summarized below:
The MAP projects were designed and launched too rapidly to build effective
implementation mechanisms -- and momentum slowed considerably after
launch.   It is important that (i) operation manuals and first year
implementation plans be completed, following a participatory process
involving all stakeholders; (ii) pilot activities be tested prior to
launch under PPF or PHRD funding; (iii) program targets be defined
quarterly for the first year; (iv) mechanisms be put in place to keep
civil society advocates involved during implementation; (v) extensive
technical assistance be provided to NGOs and CBOs to improve the
absorptive capacity of civil society, and (vi) the role of the Ministry of
Health be re-asserted in the definition of medical policy, and the
procurement of medical supplies.
- 19 -



Eligibility criteria for access to MAP funds were appropriate, but more
emphasis should be placed on Government adopting "exceptional"
implementation arrangements -- including wide scale contracting out in
those areas where Government lacks capacity, but needs immediate and
effective results.
Program implementation is more successful in countries where the national
AIDS council has defined its role as "facilitation" and "coordination"
rather than as "control" and "implementation". It is important that the
secretariat to the Council lead and coordinate from a position of
competence, with mechanisms for monitoring performance and providing
accountability to civil society and the campaign participants as a whole.
The formation of a Civil Society Review Board is a potential mechanism for
creating this accountability -- if necessary.
Priority to fiduciary mechanisms (financial management, accounting,
procurement, review and approval procedures) should not detract from
attention to monitoring of program implementation and evaluation of
program impact.    Design of such systems, and even execution can be
contracted in as needed so that they do not lag behind the implementation
process.
Priority should be given to the 'software' side of the program -- giving
attention to getting the right people for the task, and paying them and
motivating them appropriately. Procurement of the 'hardware' -- buildings
and equipment -- can then follow its normal course without affecting the
startup of activities.
Mozambique can learn from "best practices" developed both in country,
regionally and internationally. Resources should be channelled to
creating Technical Theme Groups at all three levels, to connect into and
learn from external experiences. In addition, the monitoring and
evaluation system to be established for Mozambique should be pressed to
provide assessments and guidance on the successes and failures of the
national program.
Commitment from public sector Ministries and agencies to the program can
be hastened and deepened by undertaking an assessment of the impact of the
disease on agency staff and their families, and on agency capacity for
service delivery, in light of an accellerating loss of experienced staff,
and the high cost of finding and training up replacement staff.
The practice of carrying out a social assessment, by program and
geographic area, can help civil society institutions ensure that their
activities are relevant to social needs and can generate stakeholder
commitment.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The Assessment
The most important environmental issue arising from this project relates
to the management of medical waste -- which may contaminate health
workers, and others who may come in contact with it such as municipal
workers who handle collection and disposal, poor families whose income is
derived from triage and recycling of waste products, and the general
public who may be exposed to contaminated products if they are not safely
contained and protected. An international consultant was employed in June
2002 to work with stakeholders in the assessment of the situation, and the
preparation of a health care waste management plan. The assessment and
the draft plan cover all waste products from the Mozambican public health
care system -- estimated at 2.2 tons per day -- and covers syringes,
- 20 -



needles, empty bottles for injection liquid, plastic objects (gloves,
blood pockets, urine pots, tubes), cotton, compresses, empty bags, and
other human waste. The focus is on the public health care system, which
provides all health care in rural areas, and the large majority of service
in urban areas, except for the small proportion of high income families
able to afford private clinics.
Issues
Issues involved include: (i) the lack of efficient selection of health
care waste; (ii) the carelessness of the medical staff and their lack of
training in management of health care waste; (iii) the staff dealing with
health care waste, including nurse's helpers, lack any type of
qualification; (iv) the mingling of health care waste with normal
household litter; (v) there are insufficient quantities of pre collection
baskets (for needles, cotton, etc); (vi) there are insufficient containers
for provisional litter stocks; (vii) their is a lack of security equipment
for staff responsible for cleaning of the hospitals, and for the
collectors of waste; (viii) there is no efficient treatment system in
general use -- 90- of the hospitals dispose of their wastes inside the
hospital, 7t transport their wastes to a municipal landfill and 15t use
incineration.
Stakeholders
Stakeholders include: Regulatory Agents: Ministry of Public Health and
Ministry of Environment, responsible for environmental and healthcare
policy -- they generally have at their disposal competent human
resources, and master the management techniques, but their scope of action
is a bit limited because of lack of material and financial means to carry
out their mission; Health care facilities : are the principal HCW
generators, but the healing staff has little concern for the daily
management of the HCW, which is considered a second priority besides the
huge medical emergencies; Litter gatherers: Municipalities are
responsible for the gathering of household litter, but their landfills
often receives health care waste. Their help in the handling and cleaning
is somewhat weak. The private sector intervenes in the gathering of
litter from some institutions, and even some healthcare facilities; but is
not yet motivated enough to get involved in the management of health care
waste; NGOs: Many of whom intervene in the environmental and health field.
They constitute an opportunity to be seized by the project for
partnership; Community Organizations: have the advantage of residing in
the locality, and enjoy the trust of local populations. Many of them are
active in the environment and sanitary field; The scavengers: the level
of poverty (70- of the population overpassed the margin of monetary
poverty) and the lack of economic alternatives push the populations
towards survival strategies, mainly in urban zones. In this framework,
informal scavenging or recycling activities at the level of littering
disposals, are opportunities for the poor to earn a living. With the
health care waste, the sector of pre-collection is too lucrative, to
justify much interest; The Donors : most of them intervene in the field
of health. Even if all of them recognize the importance and the interest
linked with HCW, and the necessity to lead actions in this way; very few
of them have specific programs for health care waste.
- 21 -



10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
James H. Coates
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1 202 473 9095
Fax: 1 202 477 0515
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 28, 2002.
- 22 -



