Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16078
Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3031-IND)
October 25, 1996
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1 = Rp. 1,660 (at appraisal, March 1989)
USSl = Rp. 2,331 (at completion, March 1996)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer = 0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (sq km) = 1,000 ha = 0.39 sq miles
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)
I kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton) = 2,206 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD               Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AIAT               Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology
ARMP               Agricultural Research Management Project (1989-1996)
ARM P n            Second Agricultural Research Management Project (1995-2001)
CALREC             Center for Agricultural Library and Research Communication
CARP               Center for Agricultural Research Programming
CASER              Center for Agricultural Socio-Economic Research
COFARD             Communication Fonun for Agribusiness R&D
CRIH               Central Research Institute for Horticulture
DINAS              Provincial and District Agricultural Support Services
GOI                Government of Indonesia
HRD                Human Resource Development
IBIEC              Indonesian Biotechnology Institute for Estate Crops
iBRD               Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
1ND                Indonesia
INTERNET           International Inbormation Network
IPTEKNET           Indonesian Technology Infomiation Network
MENPAN             Ministry of Administrative Reforms
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                Management Information System
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
M. Sc.             Master of Science Degree
NARS               National Agricultural Research System
O&M                Operation and Maintenance Costs
Ph. D.             Doctor of Philosophy Degree
PiP II              Second 25 Year Long-Term Development Plan
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit of ARM Project
R&D                Research and Development
REL                AARD's Research-Extension Farmers' Linkage Mechanism
REPELITA            Indonesia's Five-Year Development Plan
RIFCB              Research Institute for Food Crops Biotechnology
RIFF               Research Institute for Freshwater Fisheries
RIMF               Research Institute for Marine Fisheries
RIR                 Research Institute for Rice
RMP                Research Master Plan
RPTP               AARD's Research Proposal Document
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
TA                 Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface .................................................
Evaluation Summary ...............................................                                                            ii
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT  ................................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ................................................2
Institutional Development Objectives .................................................2
Financial Objectives .................................................5
Physical Objectives ................................................7
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project    ....................................7
D. Project Sustainability ................................................8
E. Bank Performance ................................................9
F. Borrower Performance .................................................9
G. Assessment of Project Outcome ............................................... 10
H. Future Operations ............................................... 12
I. Key Lessons Learned ................................................                                                      12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3: Project Timetable .17
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Impleentation .18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .19
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................                                                                         21
Table 8B: Project Financing ............................                                                                     21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................                                                             22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...........................                                                              22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                   l



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .........................................                  23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................                                  24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .........................................                                      24
APPENDIX A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
B: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
Map No. IBRD 28235



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
AGRICULTIURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3031-IND)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural
Research Management Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 3031 -IND in amount of
US$35.3 million was approved in March 1989 and became effective in July, 1989.
2.    The loan closed on March 31, 1996, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1995. Final disbursements were made on September 30, 1996, bringing
cumulative total disbursements to US$33.77 million, and cancellation of the undisbursed
amount of US$1.52 million. Cofinancing of the Project was provided by the Government
of Indonesia and the Government of Japan (under Japanese Grant Funds, TF 26110).
3.    This ICR was prepared by Dely P. Gapasin (EA3AG), of the East Asia and Pacific
Region and reviewed by Jon Hitchings (EA3AG), Wiranto Soehendro and Yogana Prasta
(EA3RS). Gershon Feder, Division Chief (EA3AG), reviewed and cleared the final draft.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun at the same time as the Bank's supervision
mission which visited Indonesia in July-August 1995. It is based on materials in the
project files as well as findings of the ICR mission in the field. The Borrower contributed
to the preparation of the ICR by providing comments on the views of the Government of
Indonesia which is attached as Appendix B to this report, and also participated in the
preparation of the ICR mission's aide-memoire, which is attached as Appendix A.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMEDNT PROJECT
(Loan 3031-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The Agricultural Research Management Project (ARMP), with a loan amount of
US$35.3 million, was the fourth agricultural research project supported by the Bank in
Indonesia since 1975. The previous three projects were designed to support production-
oriented (commodity-based) research. The main thrusts of the earlier efforts were to
develop research infrastructure and facilities, support the ongoing research programs, and
train a critical mass of scientists and technical staff. Overall, the implementation of the
previous major projects funded by the Bank was evaluated as satisfactory. The ARM
Project was implemented by the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
(AARD), the research agency of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Project Objectives
ii.   The main objective of the ARM Project was to increase the efficiency and
relevance of the agricultural research system for continued and sustained agricultural
development. A two-pronged approach was adopted to implement the Project by
introducing institutional and management reforms to improve research and providing
operational funds to support critical elements of the ongoing research programs,
particularly in livestock, horticulture, fisheries, socio-economics, postharvest, and
biotechnology.
iii.   The Project consisted of three components: (a) improving research management
and organization; (b) strengthening research-extension linkages; and (c) providing overall
support to the national research system. Major components of the work programs for the
research centers and institutes were defined in annual workplans and budget which
included physical targets. The components financed by the Project included construction
and rehabilitation of laboratories, offices, and research support facilities; procurement of
scientific equipment, furniture, journals, and books; a comprehensive program of training,
scientific exchange, and technical assistance; and support for operating cost of research
activities, including university collaborative research.
iv.   The special loan covenants which would promote achievement of project
objectives required the Borrower to: (a) review annually, with the Bank, the research
ii



priorities and related work programs and financing plan for agricultural research; (b)
formalize the re-establishment of the Center of Agricultural Research Programming
(CARP); (c) increase funding for agricultural research by five percent per annum in real
terms; and (d) establishment of a Research Grant Board.
v.    The Project's objective was in line with the Bank's assistance strategy for
developing agriculture in Indonesia. The main objective of "increasing the efficiency and
relevance of the agricultural research system for continued and sustained agricultural
development" was achieved by introducing institutional and management reforms to
improve research and operationally supporting critical elements of the ongoing research
programs. An Agricultural Research Policy Statement and an Action Program to
implement the policies were clearly stated at the outset. The project implementation was
within this framework.
Implementation Experience and Results
vi.   The achievement of the main objective of the Project, as set out in the staff
appraisal report (SAR), was satisfactory. The institutional objectives were of major
importance as the project emphasis was on building the research and research
management capacity of AARD. The major achievements in institutional reforms
include: (a) re-establishment of CARP for directing and monitoring the national research
programs; (b) establishment of 17 new Assessment Institutes for Agricultural Technology
(AIAT) to decentralize the agricultural research system; (c) development of a Strategic
Research and Development (R&D) Plan for 1995-2005 and updating of the Agricultural
Research Policy Statement for 1995-2005 to provide overall R&D direction, program
framework and priorities; (d) strengthening the Management Information System (MIS)
of AARD as a key tool in research planning, programming and monitoring; (e)
improvement of staff capacity in scientific fields, as well as in research and financial
management areas; (f) strengthening of the research-extension-farmer linkages through
conduct of on-farm trials and demonstrations of new technologies in 19 provinces; and
(g) establishing linkages of AARD work units to universities and private sector
enterprises.
vii.   The Project also achieved its financial objectives in a satisfactory manner. The
major objective of increasing the research operating funds for AARD was attained,
including compliance to the loan covenant of increasing the overall research budget of
AARD by five percent per annum in real terms over the six year project period. Based on
actual expenditures, the overall research budget of AARD was increased by 79.6 percent
from FY1989/90 to FY1995/96. Of this amount, the Government's share increased
significantly by 318.7 percent during the same period. In addition, the allocations for the
six priority research areas supported by the Project was also increased by 92.5 percent
during this period. To maintain the gains already made, substantial increases in the
budgetary allocations for these research areas, would be sustained and given priority by
the Government. The Japanese Grant funds increased by 56 percent (from US$3.4
.i.i



million to US$5.3 million) due to an appreciation of the yen resulting in a considerable
increase in training activities and provision of TA services. The five financial
management, accounting, and financial reporting issues identified during appraisal were
addressed with substantial changes due to the project, such as: (a) use of a double entry
book keeping system; (b) adoption of a uniform chart of accounts; (c) classifying research
expenditures by programs and projects; and (d) use of balance sheet accounting.
viii. The provision of civil works and goods for selected priority research institutes and
support facilities were successfully completed at the close of the Project. These included
the construction and rehabilitation of laboratories and offices for six AARD research
centers and institutes and the AARD Secretariat headquarters. Civil works were
undertaken in three phases. In general, the quality of construction was satisfactory,
except at the Research Institute for Fresh Water Fisheries. The Government has already
provided funds to renovate these facilities.
ix.   The major factors that adversely affected the timely achievement of project
objectives were mainly those subject to the control of the Government and the
implementing agency (AARD). These two factors were the initial delays in the re-
establishment of CARP and the provision of adequate funding for research operations.
Although these delays affected the Project initially, project implementation improved
after two years, as soon as the Government satisfactorily complied with these conditions.
The major factors which affected project implementation under the control of AARD
included: (a) the failure to integrate the functions of the ARMP PIU within CARP which
resulted in using ARM Project funds merely as additional source of funding; (b) limited
number of qualified and experienced staff were allocated by AARD to carry out CARP's
main mandates; (c) the absence of a mechanism to allow researchers and extension
workers to work with farmers delayed the implementation of the REL Program; (d) the
absence of multi-year planning of research proposals led to uncertainties of research
funding from year to year which affected the efficiency of scientists; and (e) the fast turn
over of the post of team leader of the TA Team affected the provision of TA services and
training.
x.    The Bank's performance in all phases of the project cycle was generally
satisfactory. During implementation, Bank staff were effective in supporting AARD's
introduction of institutional and management reforms, as well as focusing its efforts to
high priority research areas. The Project benefited from a high degree of supervision and
timely identification and resolution of project-related constraints. In six years, the Bank
conducted 12 supervision missions and an in-depth mid-term review in August 1992.
The relationship between the Bank and the Government, especially with AARD officials
and staff, was cordial and effective throughout the project period.
xi.   The Borrower's performance during the phases of the project cycle was also
satisfactory. The Govenment met the conditions agreed during the preparation phase.
Although there were initial delays during the first two years of the project, the
iv



Government's commitment to the Project and measures were undertaken for its effective
implementation were commendable. The Government was in compliance with all the
covenants of the loan agreement. AARD officials and staff were very responsive to the
supervision mission's recommendations and took corrective measures in a timely fashion.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
xii.  It was difficult to do a quantitative assessment of the extent of improvement in the
quality, efficiency, and relevance of research in the agricultural research system because
pre-determined key indicators of the impact of these changes and baseline data were not
established earlier. However, AARD commissioned several impact assessment studies to
document the impact of: (a) institutional and management changes in the AARD work
units; (b) the collaboration of AARD and university scientists; (c) the research-extension-
farmer linkage activities; and (d) agricultural research in the country. The main
achievements of the Project which were documented in these studies showed: (a) a
significant improvement in research planning, programming, monitoring and evaluation,
and communication; (b) a significant increase in the overall budgetary allocation for
research in the AARD budget; (c) a considerable improvement in the quality of research
proposals from AARD work units; (d) a substantial enrichment of AARD's cadre of
scientists and technical staff by addition of many staff who completed degree and non-
degree training; (e) a strengthening of the identified priority research areas due to
increased budgetary allocations, more trained staff, and improved facilities and
equipment; and (f) a strengthening of the linkages of researchers to extension workers and
farmers and with university researchers through collaborative activities.
xiii. The sustainability of project activities is very promising. The Bank has already
processed a follow-up project, the Second Agricultural Research Management Project
(Loan 3886-IND), which became effective in September 1995. The new project will
support the consolidation of the institutional and management reforms introduced under
the ARM Project to enhance its sustainability and ensure its development impact. It is
focused on activities at the regional level to support the decentralization effort of the
Government. A decree of the Ministry of Administrative Reform (MENPAN) in
December 1994 have reorganized AARD to rationalize the mandates of its national
commodity-based research institutes and established new regional assessment institutes.
The Government is committed to provide funds to support the activities of the
reorganized AARD.
xiv.  The timing of the ARM Project was most appropriate to consolidate the earlier
gains in putting the basic research infrastructure, scientific facilities, and a critical mass
of scientists and technical staff within AARD from previous Bank-supported research
projects. The key lessons learned from implementing the ARM Project are: (a) the most
logical step towards strengthening the R&D system after investing on basic infrastructure
and intensive staff development is to give priority to developing an improved research
organization and management capacity; (b) a decentralized R&D system with strong
v



linkages to farmers, extension workers, and other stakeholder will allow end-users to
benefit fully from new achievements in research; (c) the research management processes,
procedures, and tools adopted by AARD under the ARM Project need to be further fine-
tuned to meet the specific needs of its decentralized work units; (d) a multi-year program
planning and budget approval process must be in place to ensure continued and timely
availability of funds; and (e) the key performance and impact indicators and an M&E
scheme must be set up at the beginning of the project and baseline data should be
collected so that the impact of the project can be measured over time.
vi






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3031-IND)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.        Project Objectives. The main objective of the ARM Project was to increase the
efficiency and relevance of the agricultural research system for continued and sustained
agricultural development. A two-pronged approach was adopted in implementing the Project
by: (i) introducing institutional and management reforms to improve research, and (ii) providing
operational funds to support critical elements of the ongoing research programs, particularly to
strengthen research in the relatively neglected fields of livestock, horticulture, fisheries, socio-
economics, postharvest, and biotechnology research in line with established Government
research priorities. The project's objective was consistent with the borrower's strategy for
providing agricultural development with a strong technology base and long-term improvement of
the agricultural research system, as well as the Bank's overall country assistance strategy. The
total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$50.4 million (including US$8.8 million in
price and physical contingencies) and it was stipulated that IBR3D would finance 70 percent of
the total project cost, the Government of Indonesia, 23.2 percent, and a Japanese Grant, 6.8
percent.
2.        Evaluation of Objectives. The Project's main objective of "increasing the
efficiency and relevance of the agricultural research system for continued and sustained
agricultural development", although quite broad, was further defined by the two-pronged
approach adopted of introducing institutional and management reforms and increasing the overall
support for agricultural research. These two strategies clearly laid out the basis for determining
the project components and activities supported by the Project. The Agricultural Research Policy
Statement and the Action Program for implementing these policies, which were developed as a
condition for project implementation, further clarified the context for project implementation and
ensured that the risks identified at appraisal were mitigated. The emphasis on improving the
management of the research system to improve the quality and relevance of research results
ensured that the institutional capacity of AARD was tapped in a systematic manmer to support
agricultural development.



- 2 -
3.       Project Components. The Project had three main components, each with a set of
activities which was expected to be completed over the life of the Project. These included: (a)
Improving research management and organization (actual US$15.9 million) through: (i) re-
establishing the Center for Agricultural Research Programming (CARP) to strengthen and direct
the national agricultural research program, formulate overall research plans, and establish
procedures to reinforce accountability and improve planning within AARD; (ii) supporting
AARD in introducing research management reforms to increase the relevance of research outputs
and improve the efficiency of ongoing research programs; (iii) supporting AARD's Secretariat
and work units to manage the research programs, implement a staff development plan, and
improve financial management; and (iv) providing training and technical assistance in research
management and the selected disciplines; (b) Strengthening research-extension linkages (actual
US$3.4 million) by supporting AARD's ongoing programs in training, communication, and
information dissemination through collaborative on-farm research trials, demonstrations,
workshops, and other linkage activities involving extension workers and farmers; and (c)
Providing overall support to the national research system (actual US$32.3 million) by: (i)
providing adequate operating funds; (ii) establishing a research grant for supporting collaborative
agricultural research carried out by universities; (iii) establishing and expanding selected
laboratories and programs for postharvest, biotechnology, and socio-economics research; and
(iv) providing research facilities and scientific equipment, journals and books for selected
research institutes working the priority research areas and office facilities for the AARD
Secretariat.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.       Based on a periodic assessment of progress made during implementation to meet the
overall project targets, achievement of the project objectives was satisfactory. This section
provides an assessment of the contributions of the Project towards the achievement of AARD's:
(i) institutional development objectives; (ii) financial objectives; and (iii) physical objectives.
Institutional Development Objectives
5.       Improving Research Management and Organization. One of the institutional
reforms introduced by AARD to improve the overall quality, efficiency, and relevance of
research was the establishment of CARP. The CARP's main mandates are to set R&D policy, to
provide direction in the formulation and implementation of research programs, to set research
priorities, and monitor and evaluate research. CARP has played a major role in strengthening
and directing the national research program. The quality of research proposals (RPTPs) had
improved significantly under CARP's coordination, which allowed AARD scientists to excel
within the Indonesian Science and Technology community. AARD introduced research
management and institutional reforms within AARD work units in the past six years with
positive impact system-wide.
6.       The establishment of 17 Assessment Institutes of Agricultural Technology (AIATs)
in 1994 to serve the regionalization of agricultural R&D in all 27 provinces of Indonesia was
perhaps the most significant institutional change in the NARS. Thus, commodity-based planning



- 3 -
is being shifted to resource-based planning to optimize productivity in the regions through
improvement in integrated farming systems and diversification of agricultural production focused
on development of agribusiness and agroindustries. The impact of the increased quality of
AARD's research programs is also reflected in the over nine fold increase in the AARD's
development budget over the six years of the project's duration.
7.       The ARM Project assisted AARD in developing its Strategic R&D Plan for 1995-
2005 and the updating of the Agricultural Research Policy Statement for 1995-2005, both of
which were set up to provide overall R&D direction, program framework, priorities, and basis
for developing R&D masterplans. Planning and programming at the national centers and research
institutes were improved by periodically updating the rolling Research Master Plans (RMPs).
Monitoring and evaluation was strengthened by the introduction of standard RPTP formats and
peer review scheme for evaluating proposals and research outputs. Research Committees were
established at the research centers and institutes which are responsible for planning and peer
review of RPTPs and research outputs at the institute level. Since the introduction of the "one
gate policy" in FY1994/95, the acceptance rate of AARD's RPTPs submitted to the State
Ministry of Research and Technology was about 90-99 percent. The management and
administrative reforms implemented under the ARM Project have placed the AARD in a very
favorable position for the funding of its research proposals in this new and more competitive
environment.
8.       AARD's Management Information System (MIS) was strengthened by the
development of five MIS subsystems, including provision of support software and hardware.
The subsystems include databases on personnel, research programs, finance, facilities, and
program monitoring. The research collaboration subsystem is being developed. The capacity to
support and utilize the MIS had been enhanced by training of staff in all AARD work units. The
MIS had been most useful for research managers in decision making but its appropriateness for
use by scientists in designing and implementing research activities remains limited.
9.       The scientific, research management, and administrative capacity in AARD and its
work units were increased significantly through degree and non-degree training, both abroad and
in the country. Under the ARM Project, 92 AARD staff received advanced degrees (32 Ph.D.
and 60 M.Sc.); over 2,000 staff participated in short-term training, with about 60 percent of the
trainees attending research management courses; 62 individuals and 15 teams participated in the
scientific exchange program in the Asia-Pacific Region and other countries. This was a
significant scientific pool added to the existing cadre of scientists and technical staff. In 1994, a
Human Resource Development Plan (HRD) for 1995-2000 was developed to further strengthen
AARD's scientific and management capacity to cope with the changes in the system, such as the
planned decentralization of R&D. The preparation of the HRD plan was delayed and it would
have been more useful if it was completed at the beginning of the project, as scheduled, to
provide direction for the massive staff development that occurred.
10.      Information networking and training on communication and related fields were
strengthened under the Project to enhance information exchange and dissemination of research
results to end-users. Scientific journals and books were provided to the Center for Agricultural



Library and Communication (CALREC), and other AARD work units. The books and journals
mainly on scientific fields but other publications on research management, finance, and
administration were also provided. Information networks are being established to link AARD
work units to each other and to access the IPTEKNET (Indonesian technology information
network) and INTERNET (international information network).
11.      A total of 472 staff-months (209 foreign and 263 local) of technical assistance (TA),
out of the estimated 379 staff-months in the Project's staff appraisal report (SAR), was provided
by the Project under a Japanese Grant (TF 26110). The increased number of staff-months was
possible because of the appreciation of the yen during project implementation. This considerable
TA services had allowed AARD to focus its effort in both technical and management areas,
including the conduct of impact studies. Overall, the consultants services was satisfactory. TA
services were provided by a local contractor with a foreign partner. The quality of the specialists
was evidenced by the ratings of good to excellent for most consultants during periodic evaluation
by end-users done by AARD. This TA evaluation was expanded by AARD to all its donor-
supported projects. One problem met was the fast turn over of the Chief of Party who is also the
long-term Research Management Specialist, which affected the continuity of leadership of the
TA Team.
12.      Strengthening Research-Extension Linkages. The AARD strengthened the
research-extension-farmers linkages by conducting REL pilot activities in 19 provinces to
promote the adoption of improved technology developed by research institutes through
collaborative activities among researchers, extension workers, farmers, local government staff,
and DINAS (Agricultural Services Units) staff. Through the REL Program, about 105 new
technologies were tested on-farm and demonstrated to farmers. Technology showcases (gelar
technologi) were also established in various agroecological zones and major farming systems to
demonstrate new technologies. An impact assessment of REL activities in the pilot areas at the
end of the project showed positive results, although still limited, with benefits to farmer
cooperators and others in the pilot areas who initially adopted the new technology. The REL
Program also provided AARD with a new mechanism to substantially cut the lag time between
identification of a potential technology by researchers to on-farm testing and demonstration
involving farmers and extension workers. The concept and experiences in implementing REL
activities were used as basis for developing the concept and strategy for decentralizing
agricultural R&D through the new AIATs.
13.      Providing Support to the National Research System. Through the ARM Project,
AARD's research budget was increased to support research operating costs in high priority
research areas, such as fisheries, livestock, horticulture, socio-economics, postharvest, and
biotechnology. In FY1989/90, the total support for these priority areas was Rp. 21.14 billion,
increasing to Rp. 40.7 billion in FY 1995/96 at the close of the Project. The increase of 92.5
percent over six years was substantial considering that these areas were very poorly funded at the
beginning of the Project, especially in biotechnology and postharvest research. Substantial
amounts have to be allocated in the future to maintain the gains already made. The ARM Project
also constructed and rehabilitated research facilities, such as specialized laboratories and support
facilities in the research institutes working in these priority areas, including offices for the



- 5 -
AARD Secretariat. It also provided scientific and field equipment, furniture, computers,
scientific journals, and books to these selected research institutes and related research programs.
Of significance to AARD was the strengthening of the capacity of two biotechnology institutes
and a network of postharvest technology laboratories, which were the weakest research institutes
of AARD.
14.      Twenty-seven universities participated in the University Research Grant Program
supported by the Project, with 323 collaborative projects carried out by university researchers in
six years. However, only seven researches were conducted in a truly collaborative manner
involving AARD and university scientists. Although the annual planning and review workshops
where these collaborative activities were reviewed have promoted closer linkages and good will
among scientists, the joint design and implementation of common research activities have yet to
be strengthened. The final evaluation of the university grant scheme showed that although
university scientists benefited from the collaboration and they have generated significant results,
these did not benefit farmers directly because of the lack of field-orientation..
15.      Collaboration between AARD and the private sector was formalized by a
memorandum of agreement with the national Agribusiness Club and by conducting seminars
participated in by entrepreneurs and researchers. A communication forum for Agribusiness R&D
(COFARD) was also established and an agribusiness database was prepared with more than 600
participating agribusiness firms. Research contracts in collaboration with the private sector
totaling about Rp. 4.0 billion were implemented during the project period.
16.      AARD recognized that there are many opportnities to further improve research
management and administration in this very complex R&D organization, especially with the
recent effort to decentralize R&D. However, the ARM Project had assisted AARD in firmly
establishing processes, procedures, and mechanisms of institutional and management reforms to
improve the quality and relevance of agricultural research in Indonesia. It has created a new
environment in which managers and scientists have become more aware of the needs to
properly manage research and ensure its impact.
Financial Objectives
17.      The total expenditure at completion, nine months after the original closing date of
June 30, 1995, was US$51.5 million or about 102.2 percent of the estimated total cost of
US$50.4 million in the SAR. The total disbursement at closing of the loan account on March 31,
1996 amounted to US$33.8 million, equivalent to about 96.0 percent of the total Bank Loan of
US$35.3 million. An amount of US$0.8 million was cancelled in the fifth year of the project and
US$0.7 million was cancelled at the loan closing. In general, most of the expenditures, in
various categories, were close to those estimated in the SAR with the exception of the REL
component and other investment and incremental research operating cost. The REL expenditure
was US$2.3 million, which was US$4.31 million less than the SAR estimate due to delay in
implementing REL activities during the first two years. The other investment and incremental
research operating cost of US$22.2 million was US$5.7 million higher than the SAR estimate.
This was due to extension of the implementation of this component by about two years.



- 6 -
18.       One of the objectives of the ARM Project was to ensure that adequate research
operating and maintenance (O&M) funds are allocated in the AARD budget for timely
implementation of research activities. This objective was achieved by the Government,
significantly increasing its share in the total research budget of AARD and maintaining the share
of O&M cost in the routine budget, as presented in the table below. As shown in Table 1, the
Government's share increased from 23 percent in FY1989/90 to 53 percent in FY1994/95, while
in FY1995/96 up to December 31, 1995, the share was maintained at 44 percent. This is in
compliance with one of the main legal covenants of increasing the research budget of AARD
annually by five percent.
Table 1: Sources of AARD Budget and Percent GOI Share, 1989/90 to 1995/96
(Billion Rupiah)
Source         1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96*
GOI               20.3      27.4     46.0      58.3      67.4      85.0     67.1
Others            69.7      79.9     64.2      77.4      69.8      76.6      84.4
Total             90.0     107.3     110.2     135.7    137.2     161.6     151.9
GOI % of Total    22.6      25.5     41.7      43.0      49.1      52.6     44.2
* Through December 31, 1995.
19.       The budgetary allocations for the six priority research areas have increased by 92.5
percent in six years, from US$21.14 million in FY1989/90 to US$40.7 million in FY 1995/96.
From 1989/90 to FY1995/96, the funding for socio-economics research increased from Rp. 2.8
billion to Rp. 4.1 billion (46.4 percent); for horticulture research, from Rp. 4.2 billion to Rp. 0.1
billion (140.5 percent); for livestock, from Rp. 4.0 billion to Rp. 9.5 billion (137.5 percent); and
for fisheries research, from Rp. 9.9 billion to Rp. 11.4 billion (15.2 percent). The increase in
allocation for biotechnology (from Rp. 0.04 billion to Rp. 3.4 billion) and postharvest research
(from Rp. 0.2 billion to Rp. 2.2 billion), although dramatic, was not substantial considering their
requirements. These priority areas need substantial increases in budgetary allocations in the
future to further enhance research and technology generation since the areas continue to be
important focus in the development of agriculture in Indonesia.
20.       The estimated value of the Japanese Grant, which supported the Technical Assistance
(TA) contract and training of staff, was US$3.4 million. However, due to appreciation of the
exchange rate of yen to dollar from 178 yen to 104 yen, the actual expenditure out of the
Japanese Grant was US$5.3 million, which was 56 percent higher than the SAR estimate. The
TA contract was also extended for nine months when the Loan was extended to March 31, 1996.
21.       All five of the financial management, accounting, and financial reporting issues
identified during appraisal have been addressed with substantial changes resulting from the ARM
Project interventions. The results include: (i) a partially computerized double entry book keeping
is now practiced in all AARD work units (except in the newly established AIATs); (ii) a uniform
chart of account has been developed, approved, and applied in all AARD work units; (iii) the
classification of research expenditures by program/project has been introduced and adopted; (iv)



- 7 -
balance sheet accounting is now practiced throughout AARD, and (v) the new budgeting system
has shown to be effective in strengthening financial control.
Physical Objectives
22.      The provision of civil works and goods for selected priority research and support
facilities have been successfully completed on time. These included construction and
rehabilitation of buildings (laboratories and offices) for the AARD Secretariat in Pasar Minggu,
Jakarta; the Center for Agricultural Socio-economic Research (CASER) at Bogor; the Research
Institute for Marine Fisheries (RIMF) at Jakarta; and the Research Institute for Fresh Water
Fisheries (RIFWF) at Sukamandi, West Java, and for horticulture at the Central Research
Institute for Horticulture (CRIH) at Jakarta. Facilities to support biotechnology research were
constructed at the Research Institute for Food Crops Biotechnology (RIFCB) at Bogor and at the
Indonesian Biotechnology Institute for Estate Crops (IBIEC) at Ciomas, Bogor. The quality of
construction is, in general, satisfactory, except at the RIFWF at Sukamandi. The Government
has provided funds in the AARD budget beginning last year for renovating these facilities.
23.      Scientific and farm equipment, vehicles, office furniture and equipment (e.g.,
computers), and scientific journals and books to support the priority research programs, were
procured in a timely manner. These are currently being used and maintained in satisfactory
condition.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
24.      The preparation of the ARM Project was completed in August 1988 and the Project
was appraised by the Bank in August/September 1988. The Project became effective in July 3,
1989 and was planned to be implemented over a period of five years. The original closing date
was June 30, 1995 but it was extended for nine months, up to March 31, 1996, to complete the
research programs and remaining training and civil works. This period coincided with the
launching of the follow-up project, the Second Agricultural Research Management Project (Loan
3886-IND). The major factors that affected the achievements of the project objectives were
almost all subject to the control of the Government and the implementing agency. This review of
the major factors affecting the project is also related to the assessment of the major risks and the
strategy followed to mitigate them. Although research is an activity which has uncertain and
unpredictable outcome, the main factors which affected project implementation were almost all
subject to the control of the Government and the implementing agency (AARD).
25.      Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. The main factors that affected
the achievement of the project objectives were subject to government control. These are related
to the introduction of organizational reforms and increasing the operational budget for
agricultural research. Although there was an initial delay in the establisment of CARP,
eventually the center played a major role in the successful implementation of the Project. The
second factor is related to one of the two major risks idenified at appraisal, which was inadequate
funding for operaiton and maintenance expenditures. During the first two years of project



- 8 -
implementation, the research operating funds were not adequate but the situation improved from
the third year on and the Government was able to maintain the higher funding level until the
close of the Project. In the absence of a multi-year planning and approval system of research
proposals, which is subject to the Government's budgetary cycle, researchers continue to face
uncertainty of funding which affect their ability to conduct research effectively.
26.       Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. Most other factors
were subject to the control of the implementing agency (AARD). One of the major risks
identified at appraisal was the possible resistance to policy and institutional change and
continued institutional weakness in carrying out the required reforms. A phased action plan was
adopted to ensure that the Government's commitment to these institutional reforms are
addressed. Some of the factors which affected project implementation were: (i) the CARP and
ARMP-PIUJ were not fully integrated functionally within the AARD Secretariat, thus, the Project
was considered as an additional source of funding and not viewed as an integral part of AARD's
work program; (ii) the technical staff allocated to CARP was not adequate to meet its mandate,
although this was partially addressed by appointing a Technical Advisory Committee of senior
AARD scientists to assist CARP staff; (iii) the rolling Research Master Plans were not defined
enough so they appeared to be wish lists of scientists; (iv) there was inadequate research
operating funds in the initial years of implementation and the funds for operations and
maintainance was not sufficient to maintain the buildings and equipment; (v) in the absence of
multi-year planning and approval of research proposals, researchers faced uncertainty in the
continuance of their research activities; (vi) the implementation of the REL component was
delayed due to the absence of a mechanism to allow researchers and extension workers to work
together with farmers on on-farm activities; and (vii) the post of team leader (Research
Management Specialist) under the TA contract was initially vacant for a period of time, which
later on was followed by a disruptive period of fast turn over of team leaders.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.       The institutional and management reforms and R&D priority areas fostered under the
Project will continue to receive support from the national government, as well as the provincial
governments, through the AIATs. During the past few years, the Government has substantially
increased the allocation for research operation and maintenance expenditures of AARD. With
the strong R&D and management capacity already built within AARD and the Government's
funding commitment, the research activities and management initiatives introduced under the
Project would be sustained, thus ensuring their development impact.
28.       By a decree of the Ministry of Administrative Reforms (MENPAN) in December
1994, the AARD was reorganized to rationalize the mandates of its commodity-oriented centers
and research institutes and decentralized the R&D system by establishing a network of 17
regional AIATs. These decentralized units will further promote stronger linkages of AARD
researchers to farmers, extension workers, and university scientists at the regional level. AARD's
R&D capacity at the national level will be tapped to sustain these new initiatives by staff
deployment, scientists exchange, and technical and management training support. A follow-up



- 9 -
second phase of the Project (ARMP II), which became effective in September 1995, will further
support the decentralization effort.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.      Identification. Identification of the project was completed in January 1987 when the
initial executive project summary was approved. It became apparent during project identification
that in order to utilize most effectively the gains achieved from the previous agricultural research
projects, which created a stronger NARS, it was necessary to introduce organizational and
management reforms. The research issues to be addressed and the strategy to be used were
identified during the preparation phase. The Bank's performance in this phase of the project
cycle was satisfactory.
30.      Preparation. It took about 18 months to complete project preparation in August
1988. A pre-appraisal mission was undertaken to resolve outstanding issues, at which time each
of the project components were reviewed with AARD officials and staff. The Bank's
performance in this phase was also satisfactory.
31.      Appraisal. Project appraisal was carried out in August/September 1988 through one
mission to further clarify outstanding issues. By negotiation, most issues and all conditions for
appraisal were resolved. Overall, the Bank's performance in appraisal can also be considered as
satisfactory.
32.      Supervision. Bank's performance during project implementation was satisfactory,
particularly in orientating its support for introducing institutional and management reforms and
in focusing AARD's efforts to high priority research areas. The Project benefited from a high
degree of supervision and timely identification and resolution of project-related constraints. In
six years, a total of 12 supervision missions visited the project sites to discuss with AARD
officials and staff the progress of project implementation. Project supervisions were well-
organized, systematic and consistent, recommending a number of actions to be taken to remove
constraints in implementation. The mission's aide memoires brought out the key implementation
issues succinctly and provided clear recommendations for follow-up action. An mid-term review
was carried out in August 1992 and its mission's findings and recommendations were well-
documented and useful in further improving project implementation. The relationship between
the Bank and the Government, especially with AARD officials and staff, including the Project
Manager and PIU staff, was cordial and effective throughout the project implementation period.
Similarly, the relationship of the Bank with the other donor (grant) agency, the Government of
Japan, was also cordial.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.      Preparation. The preparation phase of the Project was completed in eight months.
Project preparation was carried out within the context of Repelita V (1989/95), which indicated
that a strong underpinning by research would be required to support agricultural development.
This would be provided by: (i) an Agricultural Policy Statement defining the Government's



- 10-
policy objectives and approach, and (ii) an Action Program outlining a schedule of measures to
be taken during the project period to introduce reforms and improvements in support of these
policies. The borrower's performance in meeting the criteria agreed with the Bank in the
preparation phase was satisfactory.
34.      Implementation. The ARM Project was implemented mainly by AARD. The
Government's commitment to the Project and measures undertaken for its effective
implementation has been commendable. After some initial delays in the first year of
implementation, the Project was adequately funded following the budgetary allocations as
indicated in the Project's SAR. The Government was in compliance with all the covenants of the
loan agreement. AARD officials and staff were very responsive to the supervision missions'
recommendations and took corrective measures in a timely fashion. Senior AARD officials took
active part in the Bank's supervision missions. A large number of studies in various aspects of
agricultural research management and related fields were undertaken by the Project and many of
the recommendations were adopted to improve research, financial, and administrative
management processes and procedures within AARD and its work units.
G. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
35.      A quantitative assessment of the extent of improvement in the quality, efficiency,
and relevance of research in the NARS is difficult to make in the absence of the baseline data and
pre-identified key indicators of impact, such as number of farmers adopting the new
technology, the number of hectares planted to a new crop variety, changes in yield and
productivity, costs and farmers' income, effects on the environment, employment, etc. However,
a special study was commissioned by AARD, through an external evaluation team, to detennine
the impact of the project in the AARD work units which received substantial support from the
ARM Project. The final assessment of the impact of the REL Program, also done by an external
evaluator, indicated an initial positive impact on adoption of new technologies by participating
farmers, and initial increased in productivity and farmers' income. Some main qualitative
indicators of the Project's impact are cited below.The development and implementation of the
research master plans at the national research institutes resulted in significant improvement in
research planning, programming, monitoring and evaluation, and communication within AARD
and its work units.
(i)  The updating of the research master plans, evaluation of research proposals,
adoption of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) procedures, and use of MIS
databases for planning and management, have improved the quality of research and
relevance to national development objectives, and users' needs.
(ii) Through implementation of a comprehensive degree and short-term training
program, AARD's cadre of scientists and technical staff was considerably
enriched by adding a large number of Ph.D. and M.Sc. degree holders, especially in
the identified priority research areas. Over 90 percent of the graduate degree
participants returned to their original AARD work units.



- 11 -
(iii) AARD's human resource allocation, especially to support the new regional work
units, has been improved as reflected by the re-allocation of about 295
professionals (about 10 percent of AARD staff) to the regional AIATs in
accordance with the Government's R&D priorities.
(iv) The priority research areas of socio-economics, horticulture, livestock, fisheries,
postharvest technology, and biotechnology received considerable increases in
budgetary allocations during the project period compared to FY1988/89 before the
project started. New and upgraded office facilities, scientific laboratories,
specialized equipment, and journals and books, were funded under the ARM
Project and have strengthened these weaker research areas.
(v)  The provision of considerable technical assistance (both long-term and short-term)
had supported project implementation by providing specialists to work with staff of
the AARD centers and research institutes. A total of 42 technical reports and 9
evaluation reports were prepared by consultants in collaboration with AARD staff.
The performance of consultants was periodically evaluated by senior/supervisory
AARD staff on their technical competence, success in transfer of skills,
adaptability, and communication abilities, and about 60 percent of them were rated
very good.
(vi) An impact assessment survey indicated that the REL activities provided initial
positive results, such as high adoption rate by participating farmers and others in
the vicinity of the demonstration trials. The REL Program, new technologies
generated by the research institutes, were tested on-farm and disseminated through
pilot demonstrations and farmers' field days.
(vii) A study to determine the impact of collaborative research with universities showed
that there were some outstanding research results in food crops, horticultural crops,
livestock, fisheries, and socio-economics. Although the collaborative activities
benefited university researchers mainly, the direct benefits to farmers and AARD
was limited.
36.       AARD had documented quantitative initial impact of the ARM Project on the
improvement of research outputs. The evaluation showed very useful researches done under the
ARM Project which have generated significant potential impact on increasing farmers' income
and in promoting value added at the farm level. Some examples in fisheries are: (i) a fresh water
fish vaccine developed to reduce losses due to disease outbreaks in carp and gouramie species by
more than US$2.5 million annually; (ii) fish spawning technique using hormone to mass produce
"jelawat" (Uptobarbus sp.), a local fresh water fish from West Kalimantan, which has potential
to increase farmers' income; and (iii) breeding technique using hormone and mass produce
"bandeng" (milkfish) in backyard hatcheries by small farmers who can produce 150 million fry
per year at Rp. 30-80 per fry; with an income of Rp. 1.1 million per year for a backyard hatchery
owned by 3-4 farmers.



- 12 -
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
37.       The Bank has already processed a follow-up project as a second phase of the ARM
Project. The ARM II Project became effective in September 1995. This project would support
the consolidation of the institutional and management reforms introduced under the ARM Project
to enhance its sustainability and ensure its development impact. Through the ARM II Project, in
the next six years, AARD will: (i) regionalize agricultural R&D by establishing assessment
institutes; (ii) institutionalize R&D management at the regional level; (iii) continue to support
priority commodity- and discipline-oriented research; and (iv) strengthen R&D collaboration
with national, as well as international and Asia-Pacific research and management organizations.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.       The Bank's assistance over a series of projects to support the Government's
commitment to strengthen the NARS had shown favorable results. Three previous research
projects, implemented from 1975 to 1989, helped to develop the basic infrastructure, scientific
facilities, and a critical mass of scientists and technical staff within AARD. The timing of the
ARM Project was most appropriate to consolidate the earlier gains and shift the focus to
improving the management of the research system. There are several key lessons learned from
the implementation of the ARM Project.
39.      Institutional Capacity Building. The most logical step towards strengthening the
R&D system, after investing in basic infrastructure and intensive staff development, is to give
priority to developing an improved research management capacity to promote the most
productive and cost-effective use of research investments. It takes time to build a national
capacity to conduct high quality and relevant research and for institutional changes to evolve.
However, a focus on improving the management of the research system, in addition to the
technical ascpects of the research process, ensures that the approach is systematic and reduces
the lag time between technology generation and transfer and eventual adoption by farmers.
40.       Decentralization of R&D. A decentralized R&D system with strong linkages to
farmers, community-based organizations and local governments, through improved coordination
mechanism, allows farmers and other end-users to benefit fully from new achievements in
research and promote the effective use of available local resources and knowledge. Continued
reliance on commodity-oriented research is not appropriate at the field level. Farning systems
research, based on agroecosystems and emphasizing location-specific needs and socio-
economic conditions, would better support resource-based planning and development.
Decentralized planning would ensure participation of farmers and other stakeholder in the
research process.
41.       Research Management Reforms. The research management procedures and tools
adopted by AARD through this Project need to be further fine-tuned to meet the specific needs of
its work units, especially in three areas: (i) to further improve the assessment of priorities for



- 13 -
R&D using economic efficiency parameters, such as periodic assessment of the economic impact
of adoption of technology; (ii) in further developing the MIS, AARD should develop MIS
subsystems for use by researchers and technical staff, in addition to fine-tuning the existing
subsystems already in use by research managers and planners; and (iii) the human resource
development plan should be prepared as part of project preparation and refined during early
stages of project implementation as basis for determining long-term and short-term training
needs and technical assistance requirements.
42.      Research Collaboration. To ensure that research carried out by scientists under the
University Grant Program are within the priorities of AARD and relevant to development needs
of the Government, these researches should be planned, implemented, and reviewed jointly by
university and AARD scientists.
43.      Monitoring and Evaluation. To improve the monitoring of project activities and
their outputs, the key performance indicators and the M&E scheme must be set up at the
beginning of the project (as part of its design) and baseline data for these key indicators should
be collected so that the impact of the Project, as well as the impact of R&D (technological,
social, economic, and environmental), can be measured over time.



- 14 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievementofobjective              Substantial       Par           Negligible,    Notaplicable
(V)            (0              () 0
Macro policies                           D               D              L               E
Sector policies                           I             El              Il              L
Financial objectives                     W                I             LI              LI
Institutional development               F1              -I               I              I
Physical objectives                     Fl              L               LI              LI
Poverty reduction                       L               L               L]              E
Gender issues                                           L               LI              El
Other social objectives                 LI                3I                            LI
Environmental objectives                LI              LI              L 
Public sector management                                LI              LI              LI
Private sector development              LI              El              LI              LI
Other (specify)                         LI              LI               LI              LI



- 15 -
B. Proect sustainabflitv                Likely             Unlikcly            Uncerain
(/)                 (V)                  (1)
Higly
C. Bank psrfomnce                     Satisfactory        Satisfactory         Deficien
Identification                         D                                         D
Preparation assistance                 D:                                        D F
Appraisal                              D                                         D 
Supervision                            D:                  [I                    D
D. Borrower  rformance                 Satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficint
(1)                 (1)                 (1)
Preparation                            D                   [1]                  [0]
Implementation                         D                                        [ I]
Covenant compliance                    D2                  [I                    D
Operation (if applicable)              D                    D                    D
Highy                                    Hily
E. Assessment ofout                   Satisfact    SatisfacLv  Unsatisfactory unsatisfactoQy
(1)           (1)           V)           (V)
O   E                                    D 



- 16 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                        Approval    Status
Preceding operations
1. Agricultural Research   To strengthen production-oriented research programs for  1975    Completed
and Extension Project  four commodity groups of importance to Indonesia,
namely rice, field crops, highland vegetables, and rubber.
2. National Agricultural   To raise agricultural productivity through systematic  1980    Completed
Extension 11 Project   transmission of improved techniques, plant varieties, and
inputs, by means of expanded and well-organized extension
services.
3. Transmigration III  One of the subcomponents was devoted primarily to     1983    Completed
Project              institution building and program development, specifically
the expansion of agricultural research in support of
transmigration under the AARD.
4. Second Swamp        One of its components included agricultural research for  1984    Completed
Reclamation Project   swamp development in S. Sumatra & S. Kalimantan and
extension services improvement, especially in pest control.
5. Upland Agriculture    The purpose of the project's research component was to  1984    Completed
and Conservation     develop the capacity to produce technologies that will
Project              increase farm production and incomes and promote soil
conservation.
6. Nusa Tenggara       One of its components included the provision of funds to  1985    Completed
Agricultural Support  sectoral agencies for farming systems research, pilot cotton
Project              and cattle development.
7. Third National      To strengthen the extension services covering estate crops,    1986    Completed
Agricultural         livestock and fisheries, in addition to food and horticultural
Extension            crops, in all provinces, under a unified extension service
Project              coordinated by Agency for Agricultural Education &
Training.
Following operations
1. Integrated Swamps   One of its components includes the promotion of food  1994     Ongoing
Development Project   production through support for research & extension with
associated provision of seeds, pest control & seasonal
inputs.
2. Second Agricultural    To strengthen regional agricultural R&D by collaboratively    1995  Ongoing
Research             developing and transferring location-specific technology
Management Project   which is market-oriented and client-driven to support agro-
business and agro-industry development.
3. Nusa Tenggara       To support long-term agricultural development. One of the    1996  Ongoing
Agricultural Area    project components is the establishment of the Naibonat
Development Project   Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology.
4. Sulawesi Agricultural  To increase rural incomes and reduce the incidence of  1996  Ongoing
Area Development     poverty by increasing the flow of technical and financial
Project              resources for rural development in response to needs
expressed at village and kabupaten level.



- 17 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned             latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               n.a.                 January 1987
Preparation                                          January 1988              August 1988
Appraisal                                             April 1988             Aug./Sept. 1988
Negotiations                                             n.a.                 February 1989
Letter of development policy (if applicable)             n.a.                     n.a.
Board presentation                                  March 21, 1989           March 28, 1989
Signing                                                  n.a.                 May 1, 1989
Effectiveness                                         June 1989                July 3, 1989
First tranche release (if applicable)                    n.a.                     n.a.
Midterm review (if applicable)                      June 30, 1992            August 2, 1991
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)       n.a.                     n.a.
Project completion                                   June30, 1995            March31, 1996
Loan closing                                         June 30, 1995           March 31, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
EY9Q    FY91    FY92    EY93    FY94   FY95    EY26    FY97
Appraisal estimate         3.0      10.0    17.2    24.8       32.0     35.3
Actual                     3.6      8.1      13.8    22.6    29.0       32.3     32.8      33.8
Actual as % of estimate    120      81       80       91       91       92       93        96
Date of final disbursement    September 30, 1996



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's Report  Unit       Estimated       Actual
1. Training
A. Foreign Training
(a) Ph. D Level                                      person             13              13
(b) Msc Level                                        person             20             20
B. Local Training
(a) Ph. D Level                                      person             21             23
(b) Msc Level                                        person             40             42
(c) Library Science/Communication                    person             45             59
(d) Computer Science/Laboratory                      person             45             31
(e) S1                                               person             50             50
Non-degree Training                                    person           2,725          3,460
Language Training                                      person             20              55
2. Technical Assistance
A. Foreign
(a) Project Coordinator                             staffmonth           60             69
(b) Research Programmer                             staffmonth           24             24
(c) Research Management Specialist                  staffmonth           75            120
B. Local
(a) Civil Works Specialist                          staffmonth           60             69
(b) Financial Specialist                            staffmonth           60             69
(c) Research Management Specialist                  staff_onth          100            136
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.Key implernentation indicators in SAR/President's Report  Unit      Estinated       Actual
1. Training
A. Foreign Training
(a) Ph. D Level                                      person             13              11
(b) Msc Level                                        person             20             20
B. Local Training
(a) Ph. D Level                                      person             23              9
(b) Msc Level                                        person             42             34
(c) Library Science/Communication                    person             59             54
(d) Computer Science/Laboratory                      person             31              10
(e) S1                                               person             50             40
Non-degree Training                                    person           3,460          3,460
Language Training                                      person             55              55
2. Technical Assistance
A. Foreign
(a) Project Coordinator                             staffrnonth          69             69
(b) Research Programmer                             staffmonth           24             24
(c) Research Management Specialist                  staffmonth          120            120
B. Local
(a) Civil Works Specialist                          staffmonth           60             60
(b) Financial Specialist                            staffmonth           60             60
(c) Research Management Specialist                  staffmonth          136             136



- 19 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
A large number of research papers and studies have been completed by the project. These include:
Research Reviews, Planning & Management
- Research Program Coordination in the Center for Agricultural Research Programming (1991)
- AARD in the 1990s and Beyond (1991)
- Research Budget Review for the Central Research Institute for Horticultural Crops and Research
Budget Projection for the Research Sub-Project for Horticulture at Lembang (1992)
- Five Years of Agricultural Research and Development in Indonesia: 1987 to 1991 (1992)
- Research Programming in the Central Research Institute for Animal Science (1992)
- Research Programming and Management for Inland Open Water Fisheries (1992)
- Research Programming and Management Within the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (1993)
- Crop Research Result Inventories by Programs Using System Analysis (1993)
- Horticulture Research Management (1993)
- Strategic Plan: Agency for Agricultural Research and Development: 1995-2005 (1994)
- Agricultural Research and Development Policy Statement and Action Plan (1995)
Impact Assessment of ARM Project
- Review of Research Funded by ARMP: Assessment of Research Quality and Economic Impact
(1992)
- Economic Impacts of Agricultural Research in Indonesia (1994)
- Impact Evaluation of ARM Project on Selected Research Institutes Within AARD (1995)
- Impact Assessment on Research-Extension Linkage Pilot Projects (1995)
- Research Extension Linkage (REL) Program impact on Target Groups in Selected Provinces (1996)
- Program Impact on the Research Centers and Institutes (1996)
- Research Grant Program Impact on the Universities (1996)
- Scientific Exchange Impact on AARD Staff and Their Institutions (1996)
- Training Impact on AARD Staff Who Participated in Academic or Short-term Training Abroad or
Within Indonesia (1996)
Research Communication
- Review of Research Communication of AARD (1991)
- AARD Communication Capabilities: Audio Visual/Publications (1992)
- Management Information System Strategic and Operational Workplan (1993)
- Management Information System Review (1994 and 1995)
- ARMP-II Strategic and Operational Workplan for Management Information Systems (1994)
Institutional Strengthening
- Gender Issues in Agricultural Research and Development in Indonesia (1994)
- Farmer Involvement in Research Extension: ARMP-II Appraisal (1994)
- Management Guidelines for Strengthening the Regionalization of the AARD Research System
(1996)
- From Centralized to Regionalized Research and Development in the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (1996)
- Commodity Models for Price Policy Analysis (1996)



- 20 -
Institutional Strengthening
-  Gender Issues in Agricultural Research and Development in Indonesia (1994)
-  Farmer Involvement in Research Extension: ARMP-II Appraisal (1994)
-  Management Guidelines for Strengthening the Regionalization of the AARD Research System
(1996)
-  From Centralized to Regionalized Research and Development in the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (1996)
-  Comnodity Models for Price Policy Analysis (1996)
Biotechnology
-  Agricultural Biotechnology Research Program in Indonesia (1995)
-  Biosafety and Biotechnological Regulatory Affairs (1993)
-  Intellectual Property Rights in Indonesia (1995)
-  Genome Mapping (1995)
-  Genetic Engineering of Cocoa for Resistance to the Pod Borer Moth (1995)
-  Improvement of the Research Institute of Food Crop Biotechnology's Germplasm Center (1995)
Animal Science
-  Application of Embryo Transfer Technology in Cattle in the Republic of Indonesia (1992)
-  Application of In Vitro Cattle Embryo Production on Milk and Beef Production in the Republic of
Indonesia (1995)
-  Molecular Biology in Animal Health and Training (1995)
-  Molecular Biotechnology Techniques at the Research Institute for Veterinary Science (1996)
-  Molecular Genetics in Animal Production at the Research Institute for Animal Production (1996)
Fisheries/Aquaculture
- Seed Production of Sea Cucumber, Mud Crab and Pangasius sp. (1992)
- Fish and Crustacean Feeds and Nutrition (1993 and 1994)
Horticulture
- Citrus Research and Development in Indonesia (1992)
- Varietal Improvement in Banana (1996)
Soils/Groundwater
- Groundwater Development and Utilization in Nusa Tenggara (1992)
Soils/Agroclimate
- Development of a Research Program on Agroclimatology in the Center for Soil and Agroclimate
Research (1993)
Soils/Fertility
-  Soil Fertility and Fertilizer Use Study in Indonesia (1994)
-  Soil Testing and Efficient Fertilizer Recommendations in Regional Research and Development
(1994)
-  Soil Testing for Integrated Nutrient Management (STINM): Soil Testing and Plant Tissue Analysis
Laboratory Methods and Crop Profiles for Provinces (1995)



- 21 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Component                 Local    Foreign             Local   Foreign
costs     costs    Total   costs    costs    Total
1. Center for Agr. Research Programming   2.60        0.20   2.80     2.11     0.51     2.62
2. Center for Agr. Library & Res. Comm.      -           -      -        -      0.13    0.13
3. Center for Agro-Socio Economic Res.     1.20       0.20    1.40    0.55      0.17    0.72
4. Center for Soil & Agroclimate Res.         -          -               -      0.12    0.12
5. Center Res. Inst. for Food Crops                -            -        -      0.37    0.37
a. Postharvest Food Crops              0.20          -   0.20     0.10      0.09    0.19
b. Food Crops Biotechnology                    -             -    0.35      0.69     1.04
6. Center Res. Inst. for Industrial Crops          -            -        -      0.18    0.18
a. Estate Crops Biotechnology          0.50       0.30   0.80     0.35      0.33     0.68
7. Inland Fisheries                       2.60        1.00   3.60     2.53      0.74    3.27
8. Marine Fisheries                       2.00        0.50   2.50     1.00      0.62     1.62
9. Coastal Aquaculture                    0.40        0.10   0.50        -         -       -
10. Management Information System         1.10        0.70    1.80    1.61      0.70    2.31
11. Technical Assistance and Training     5.80        5.70   11.50    5.73      5.90    11.63
12. Research Extension Linkages           5.80        1.00   6.80     2.39      0.10    2.49
13. Research Fund                         1.50        0.50    2.0    1.60       0.35    1.95
14. Other Investment & Incremental        13.90       2.60   16.50   20.00      2.20   22.20
Research Operating Costs
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                7.60       12.80  50.40    38.32     13.20   51.52
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source                Local     Foreign              Local    Foreign
costs     costs      Total     costs     costs     Total
IBRD                                25.60       9.70    35.30      24.13       9.80    33.93
Japan Grant Facility \a              0.60       2.80      3.40      2.19       3.13      5.32
Govermment of Indonesia             11.40       0.30     11.70      12.00      0.27     12.27
TOTAL                   37.60       12.80    50.40     38.32      13.20    51.52
\a Due to the appreciation of Yen, the total Grant increased from US$3.4 million to US$5.3 million.



- 22 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant   Present   fulfillment   fulfillment
Agreement    Section        type      status      date        date               Description of Covenant
Article m   3.01 (A. 1)      5         C        6/30/90                Formalize the re-establishment of CARP by
June 30, 1990.
3.01 (A.10)     9          C                               Review by October 31 each year with the
Bank research priorities and the related
work programs and financing plans for
agricultural research for the following year.
3.01 (A. II)    4          C                               Increase funding for agricultural research by
at least five percent per annum in real terms
for the period FY1989-90 - 1993-94.
3.01 (A.12)     5          C                               Employ consultants and cause training
programs to be carried out in accordance
with timetables and termns of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.01 (A.2)      5         C        6/30/91                 Ensure the management information system
to be operational by June 30, 1991.
3.01 (A.3)      5         C        9/30/89                 Establish a research grant board by
September 30, 1989.
3,01 (A.4)      1         C        6/30/91                 Prepare, by June 30, 1991, a detailed plan
and timetable for the introduction of
improved accounting and financial control
measures for AARD.
3.01 (A.5)      S         C        6/30/89                 Designate staff in the AARD secretariat to
assist in effectively implementing the project
by June 30, 1989.
3.02 (A.6)      S         C        6/30/91                 Prepare, by June 30, 1991, a staff
development plan for AARD which will
include contract and support staff, as well as
permanent professional staff.
3.01 (A.?)      4         CP                               Provide funds for agricultural research
operations and maintenance based on
standards satisfactory to the Bank.
3.01 (A.8)      I         C        6/30/91                 Carry out an inventory of research assets by
type and institute by June 30, 1991.
3.01 (A.9)      I         C        6/30/92                 Formulate improved standards of operation
and mnaintenance by June 30, 1992.



- 23 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (Cont'd)
Covenant Cass:     I Accounts/audit                                            present Statusa
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries  C = covenant complied with
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds                    CP = complied with partially
4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title             I     Describe and comment on lack of comnpliance
There are no OMS relevant to the project that have not been complied with and/or been acted against.



- 24 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned                  Revised                   Actual
project cycle
Weeks         US$         Weeks        US$         Weeks       US$'000
Through appraisal             n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        63.8         145.6
Appraisal - Board             n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        44.0         121.4
Board - effectiveness         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.          n.a.
Supervision                   n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        192.4        501.6
Completion                    n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        16.2         41.5
TOTAL                 n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        316.4        810.1
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Specialized          Performance rating             o
Stage of      Month/   Number of  Days in    staff skills                                      Types of _
project cycle    year      persons      field    represented    Implementation    Development    problems
status        objectives
Identification      1/87
Preparation         8/87         4         10          A,C                                                  |
Appraisal           8/88         6         11        A,FA,C                                                 |
Supervision 1       10/89        3         17           A                1               1 I
Supervision 2       6/90         5         15        A,FA,PS             1               1             -
Supervision 3       1/91         4         10         A,FA               I               1
Supervision 4       7/91         4          8        A,FA,PS             I               1
Supervision 5       1/92         4         12        A,PS,C              1               1
Supervision 6       8/92         6         19       A,PS,FA,M           2                2                  |
Supervision 7       1/93         5         14        A,FA,BT            2                2                  1
Supervision 8       8/93         4         20         A,FA              2                2
Supervision 9       4/94         4         21       A,FA,RM              1               1
Supervision 10      8/95         3         14       A,FA,RM             HS              HS
Completion          3/96         3         14       A,FA,RM             HS               S
Specialized Staff:  A = Agriculturist; FA = Financial Analyst; PS= Procurement Specialist; C= Consultant; M =
Management; BT = Bio-Technology; RM = Research Management



APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ARMP!
(Loan 3031-IND)
Final Supervision Mission, March 11-22, 1996
AIDE MEMOIRE
I. INTRODUCTION
1. A World Bank Mission, comprising Dely Gapasin, P. Tamboli, Wiranto Soehendro, and Yogana
Prasta reviewed the progress of implementation of the project during the period March 11-22, 1996. As
the loan closes on March 31, 1996, this was the final supervision of the project, focused on the
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission provided advice and support to
the Borrower for preparing its own contribution to the ICR. The mission visited all facilities constructed
under the project and some of the AARD work units which received significant amounts of support from
the project and those which participated in the impact studies of ARMP, such as, Center for Agricultural
Research Progranmiing (CARP) at Jakarta, Center for Agricultural Library and Research Communication
(CALRC) at Bogor, Center for Agricultural Socio-economic Research (CASER) at Bogor, Central
Research Institute for Horticulture (CRIH) at Jakarta, Research Institute for Marine Fisheries (RIMF) at
Jakarta, Central Research Institute for Animal Science (CRIAS) at Bogor, Research Institute for Food
Crops Biotechnology (RIFCB) at Bogor, Indonesian Research Institute for Estate Crops (IBEEC) at Bogor,
Research Institute for Fresh Water Fisheries (RIFWF) at Sukamandi, Research Institute for Ornamental
Crops (RIOC) at Jakarta, Research Institute for Rice (RIR) at Sukamandi, and Research Institute for
Vegetables (RIV) at Lembang.
2. The mission had discussions with officials of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the National
Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), officials and staff of the Agency for Agricultural Research
and Development (AARD) and its work units, staff of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and officials
and researchers at two agricultural universities at Bogor (Institute Pertanian Bogor) and Bandung
(Pajajaran University).
1



3. The mission is very appreciative of the assistance and courtesies extended to it by officials and staff of
the AARD, MOA, BAPPENAS, universities, and other agencies. This aide memoire summarizes the
findings and recommendations of the mission which are subject to review and confirmation by the Bank's
management. This aide memoire was discussed in a wrap-up meeting held on March 29, 1996 chaired by
the Director General of AARD, and attended by the Directors of AARD's research centers and institutes,
staff of the AARD Secretariat and the ARMP-PIU.
H. PROGRESS ON ACTIONS AGREED WITH PREVIOUS SUPERVISION MISSION
4. The status of progress on actions agreed with the previous mission is presented in the table below.
ACTION                      GOI AGENCY             TIME             STATUS
RESPONSIBLE            FRAME
Conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the    AARD Sec., CARP,   Remaining period   Implemented
impact of ARM Project.                   PIU, AARD Work
Units
Appoint ARMP Team to assist PIU to ensure  AARD              As soon as possible  Implemented
completion of activities and prepare ICR.
Document research management processes,    AARD Sec.         As soon as possible  Implemented
procedures, and tools into manuals/guidelines  CARP, PIU
for training and information dissemination.    AARD Work Units
Facilitate use of NGAS in 17 provinces;  AARD Sec.           Remaining period   Implemented
review results of administrative reforms.  PIU
Finalize Scientific Exchange Program and  AARD Sec.          August 31, 1995    Implemented
submit to Bank.                         CARP, PIU
Extend INDECO/Winrock Contract; finalize   AARD Sec.         August 31, 1995    Implemented
Technical Assistance Program and submit to   CARP, PIU
Bank.                                   TA Team
Undertake comprehensive evaluation of REL   CALREC           Remaining period   Implemented
and provide resources; prepare REL
guidelines.
Review accomplishments of socio-economics  CASER, PIU        As soon as possible  Implemented
research subcomponent.
Review accomplishments of postharvest   CAMD, CRIH           As soon as possible  Implemented
research subcomponent.                   PIU
Review accomplishments of fisheries research  CRIFI, IRs     As soon as possible  Implemented
subcomponent.                            PIU
2



Request MOF for additional GOI counterpart  AARD, PIU     As soon as possible  Not
funds for civil works, TA, training; propose                                implemented
cancellation of US$760,00 of Loan funds, if                                 due to time
not utilized.                                                               constraint
Identify additional activities to utilize  AARD Sec.      August 31, 1995    Implemented
Japanese Grant funds and submit plan to  CARP, PIU
Bank.
Use direct subscription to procure journals    CALREC, PIU  August 31, 1995    Implemented
and periodicals; prepare list and submit to
Bank.
III. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS
5. The project is classified as successful since the project objectives have been achieved in a timely
manner. The major objective of the project, which was to increase the efficiency and relevance of the
agricultural research system for continued and sustained agricultural development, was largely achieved.
This was done by introducing a number of institutional and management reforms to improve the quality
and relevance of research, and through operationally supporting critical elements of the ongoing research
programs. These included strengthening research in the relatively neglected fields of socio-economics,
livestock, fisheries, postharvest technology, and biotechnology, in line with established GOI research
priorities. The institutional, financial, and physical objectives were fully achieved with a positive project
impact. GOI's continued support to improve research and development (R&D) by implementing a follow-
up project (ARMP II) is an indication of the sustainability of the project. A summary of project
implementation, project impact, major factors affecting project implementation, and key lessons learned,
are presented below.
Institutional Development Objectives
6. To improve the overall quality, efficiency, and relevance of research, the following institutional and
management reforms were introduced by the AARD during implementation of the project:
(i)    establishing the Center for Agricultural Research Programming (CARP); CARP, with the
Secretariat and all the AARD work units, introduced and implemented research
3



management and organizational reforms within AARD in the past six years; a Technical
Advisory Committee was established to assist CARP;
(ii)   introducing organizational reforms, including the reorganization of AARD to rationalize the
mandates of its commodity-oriented research centers and institutes at the national level
and establishing a new network of 17 Assessment Institutes of Agricultural Technology
(AIATs) at the regional level to decentralize agricultural R&D. Thus, commodity-based
planning is being shifted to resource-based planning with emphasis on optirnizing
productivity in the regions through improvement in integrated farning systems and
diversification of the agriculture sector with focus on development of agribusiness and
agroindustries;
(iii)   strengthening the national R&D program by developing a Strategic R&D Plan for 1995-2005
and updating the Agricultural Research Policy Statement for 1995-2005, which provided
the overall R&D direction, program framework, and priorities and basis for developing
research masterplans; these were also used as basis for the new strategy to decentralize
agricultural R&D;
(iv)   irnproving planning and programming at the research centers and institutes by periodically
updating the rolling Research Master Plans (RMPs) which are used in preparing research
proposals (RPTPs) by scientists; most RPTPs from AARD work units successfully passed
the evaluation of the State Ministry of Research and Technology through the new "one
gate" policy of evaluation;
(v)    strengthening monitoring and evaluation at the research centers and institutes by introducing a
standard RPTP formats and peer review scheme for evaluating proposals and research
outputs; Research Committees were established at the research centers and institutes
which are responsible for planning and peer review of RPTPs and research outputs at the
institute level;
(vi)   strengthening the Management Information System (MIS) by developing and introducing five
MIS subsystems and providing software and hardware; the subsystems include databases
on personnel, programs, finance, facilities, and program monitoring; the research
collaboration subsystem is being developed;
(vii)  improving administrative and financial management by developing unit cost estimates for
research and inventory of physical assets which are now accepted by the Government;
4



many AARD staff were trained on the New Government Accounting System (NGAS)
and other financial and administrative procedures;
(viii)  strengthening research-extension-farmers linkages by conducting REL pilot projects to
promote improved technologies from the research institutes through joint activities of
researchers, extension workers, farmers, local governments, and DINAS (agricultural
services units); the concept and experiences in implementing REL were used as basis for
developing a strategy for decentralizing agricultural R&D through the AIATs;
(ix)   strengthening collaboration with universities, through the University Grant Scheme, and the
private sector through periodic consultation through a regular Forum; a University Grant
Board has been established to provide liaison between AARD work units and
participating universities;
(x)    supporting research on high priority areas (fisheries, livestock, horticulture, food crops,
biotechnology, postharvest, and socio-economics) and improving research facilities by
construction of laboratories, provision of scientific equipment, computers, and field
equipment to support research these priority areas and other research programs;
(xi)  increasing scientific, research management, and administrative capacity in AARD and its
work units through degree and non-degree training; 94 AARD staff received advanced
degrees (Ph.D., 34; M.Sc., 60); over 3,000 staff participated in short-term training, with
about 60% of the trainees participating in management courses; 62 individuals and 15
teams also participated in the scientific exchange program;
(xii)  improving communication and training to enhance information exchange and dissemination of
research results; scientific journals and books were provided to CALRC, the centers and
research institutes; networking is being established through IPTEKNET (national
network) and INTERNET (with external organizations).
It is recognized that there is still a long way to go to further improve research management in a very
complex organization like AARD. However, the project has assisted AARD in firmly establishing
mechanisms and processes of institutional reforms to improve the quality and relevance of research.
Thus, the insfitutional development objectives of the project have been successfully achieved.
5



Financial Obiectves
7. The total expenditure at completion, nine months after the original closing date of
June 30, 1995, is estimated at US$51.5 million or about 102.1 % of the staff appraisal report (SAR)
estimated total cost of US$50.4 million. The total disbursement at closing of the loan account on March
31, 1996 amounted to US$33.9 million, equivalent to about 96.0% of the total Bank loan of US$35.3
million (Table 1, Annex 1). The relative composition and absolute amounts of project expenditures on the
various components, are presented in Table 2 (Annex 2). In general, most of the expenditures, in various
categories, were close to those estimated in the SAR with the exception of REL and other investment and
incremental research operating cost. The REL expenditure is US$2.30 million, which is US$4.31 million
less than the SAR estimate due to delay in implementation of the REL activities. The other investment and
incremental research operating cost of US$22.2 million, is US$5.7 million higher than the SAR estimate.
This is due to extension of the implementation of this component by about two years.
8. One of the objectives of the ARMP was to ensure adequate research operating and maintenance
(O&M) funds for timely implementation of research activities. This was achieved by GOI, significantly
increasing its share in the total research budget of AARD and maintaining the share of O&M cost in the
routine budget as presented in the table below (based on Tables 3a and 3b, Annex 3). The GOI share
increased from 22% in 1989/1990 to 52% in 1994/1995; while in 1995/1996 up to December 31, 1995,
the share has been maintained at 44%. This is in compliance with the legal covenant of 5% annual
increase.
Sources of AARD budget and percent GOI share, 1989/1990 to 1995/1996
Rp.      1989/     1990/     1991/     1992/     1993/     1994/      1995/
Billion    1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996
Source    Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual   Actual*
GOI         20.3      27.4      46.0      58.3      67.4       85.0      67.1
Others      69.7      79.9      64.2      77.4      69.8       76.6      84.4
Total       90.0      107.3     110.2     135.7     137.2     161.6     151.9
% GOI       22.0      26.3      42.0      43.0      49.0      52.0      44.0
Share
* Through December 31, 1995
6



This also indicates that the research intensity ratio for agricultural research has gone up from 0.273 in
1989/1990 to 0.370 in 1995/1996. This, however, is still lower than 1 % recommended agricultural
research expenditure in developing countries.
9. The financial resources allocated to priority areas of research has also increased considerably in
compliance with SAR requirement (Table 4, Annex 4). From 1989/1990 to 1995/1996, the funding for
socio-economics research increased from Rp.2.8 billion to Rp.4.1 billion (2.69%); for horticulture
research, from Rp.4.2 billion to Rp.10.1 billion (6.0%); for livestock research, from Rp.4.0 billion to
Rp.9.5 billion (6.25%); for fisheries research, from Rp.9.9 billion to Rp.11.4 billion (7.49%); for
biotechnology research, from Rp.0.04 billion to Rp.3.4 billion (1.43%); and for postharvest research,
from Rp.0.2 billion to Rp.2.2 billion (2.21 %).
10. The estimated value of the Japanese Grant was US$3.4 million., however, due to appreciation of the
exchange rate of yen to dollar from 178 yen to 104 yen, the actual expenditure out of the grant is US$5.4
million, which is 55% higher than the SAR estimate.
11. All five of the financial management, accounting, and reporting issues identified during appraisal have
been addressed, namely: (i) partially computerized double entry book keeping is now practiced in all
AARD work units (except the newly established AIATs); (ii) a uniform chart of account has been
developed, approved, and applied; (iii) the classification of research expenditures by program/project has
been introduced; (iv) balance sheet accounting is now throughout AARD, and; (v) budgeting system is
effective in strengthening financial control.
Thus, the financial objectives of the project have been fully achieved.
Physkal [Qbiecs
12. The provision of civil works and goods for selected priority facilities (laboratories, offices) and
research programs have been successfully completed on time. These include buildings, furniture, and
equipment for the AARD Secretariat in Pasar Minggu, Jakarta; the Center for Agricultural Socio-
econornic Research (CASER) at Bogor, the Research Institute for Marine Fisheries (RIMF) at Jakarta, and
the Research Institute for Fresh Water Fisheries (RIFWF) at Sukamandi, West Java. Facilities for
postharvest research for food crops were constructed at the Research Institute for Rice (RIR) at
Sukamandi, West Java and for horticulture at the Central Research Institute for Horticulture (CRIH) at
Jakarta. Facilities to support biotechnology research were constructed at the Research Institute for Food
Crops Biotechnology (RIFCB) at Bogor and at the Indonesian Biotechnology Institute for Estate Crops
(IBIEC) at Ciomas, Bogor. The quality of construction is, in general, satisfactory, except at the RIFWF at
Sukamandi. The GOI has provided funds for renovation of facilities constructed under Phase I and II.
7



13. Scientific and farm equipment, vehicles, furniture, office equipment, and scientific journals and books
to support priority research programs, were procured in a timely manner These are currently being used
and maintained in satisfactory condition.
Thus, aU the physical objectives of the project have been achieved.
Prject Impa
14. A quantitative assessment of the extent of improvement in the quality, efficiency, and relevance of
research is rather difficult to make in the absence of the baseline data and pre-identified key indicators
(i.e., number of farmers adopting the new technology, the number of hectares and land developed,
changes in yield and productivity, costs and net income, the effects on the environment, employment,
etc.). However, a study was commissioned by AARD, through an external evaluation team, in the AARD
work units which received substantial support from the project to determine the impact of ARMP. The
assessmnent of the REL program indicated a positive impact on adoption of new technologies by farmer
cooperators, increased productivity, and farmers income. Some of the qualitative indicators of the project
impact are presented below.
(i)    Due to the development of a research master plans at the research institutes, there is a
significant improvement in research planning, progranuning, and communication within
AARD.
(ii)    Due to the strengthening of CARP (with assistance of a Technical Advisory Committee
composed of senior AARD scientists), updating of the master plans, evaluation of
research proposals (RPTP), developing monitoring and evaluation (M&E) procedures,
and using of MIS, the quality of research and relevance to national and users, needs, has
been inproved.
(iii)   Due to the implementation of a comprehensive training program, human resources for AARD
have considerably been enriched by adding a large number of Ph.D. and M.Sc. degree
holders and by supporting short-term training and scientific exchange (see para. 6.xi).
Priority was given to develop human resources in the priority research areas, 40% of the
trainees were in the field of fisheries and industrial crops, 22% in socio-economics and
horticulture, and 8% in management. Nearly 91% of the graduate degree participants
returned to their original work units.
8



(iv)   AARD's humnan resource allocation has also improved as reflected by the re-allocation of
some 295 professionals (about 10% of AARD staff), with 172 staff reassigned to the 17
AIATs in accordance with GOI's new R&D priorities and strategy.
(v)    The priority research areas of socio-econornics, horticulture, livestock, fisheries, postharvest
technology, and biotechnology received increased budgetary allocation during the project
period compared to FY1988/1989, before the project started. New and upgraded
facilities, laboratories, scientific equipment, and journals, with additional funding under
ARMP have considerably enhanced research quality.
(vi)   Due to the provision of considerable technical assistance (both long-term and short-term, as
well as local and foreign), the overall performance of research at the centers and research
institutes have improved significantly. A total of 42 technical reports and 9 evaluation
reports were prepared by consultants in collaboration with AARD staff. The performance
of consultants was evaluated by senior/supervisory AARD staff on their technical
competence, success in transfer of skills, adaptability, and communication abilities. About
34% of the consultants were rated good score, while 60% were rated very good. The
performance of the local long-term consultants was excellent.
(vii)   Through the REL program, about 105 new  technologies were tested on-farm  and
disseminated through on-farm demonstrations and farmers field days. An impact
assessment survey indicated that REL activities provide positive results, such as high
adoption rate by participating farmers and others in the vicinity of the demonstrations.
(viii)  About 323 research projects, conducted by university researchers from 29 public universities,
were funded by ARMP. The impact of these research projects were evaluated by five
different groups and the results indicated some outstanding research results in food crops,
horticultural crops, livestock, fisheries, and socio-economics.
(ix)   Collaboration between AARD and its work units with the private sector was formalized by a
memorandum of agreement with the Agribusiness Club and by supporting seminars. A
communication forum for Agribusiness R&D (COFARD) was also established. Some 26
topics have been discussed with 24 agribusiness associations and an agribusiness database
have been prepared. Research contracts totalling about Rp.19.0 billion were signed
during the project period.
15. AARD is compiling quantitative impact of ARMP on improvement of research outputs. The mission
observed some very useful research being done under the project which has significant potential impact on
9



increasing farmers income, and in promoting value added. For example, some of the fisheries research
outputs are indicated below.
(i)    Development of fresh water fish vaccine. This could reduce losses due to disease outbreak of
carp and giant gouramy species by more than US$2.5 million annually.
(ii)    Fish spawning technique using hormone and mass production of "jelawat" (Lep1obarbum sp.),
a local fresh water fish from West Kalimantan. Adoption of this technique can increase
farmers income mnany fold.
(iii)   Development of breeding technique and hatchery scheme to mass produce milkfish in
backyard hatcheries by small farmers, producing 150 million fry per year at Rp.30-80
per fry. One unit of backyard hatchery owned by 3-4 farmers can generate an income of
Rp. 1.1 million per year.
Major Factors Affecting poject Implementation
16. Although eventually most of the project objectives have been achieved, the following factors affected
the implementation of the project:
(i)    CARP and ARMP-PIU were not fully integrated functionally within the AARD Secretariat,
thus, ARMP was considered as an additional source of funding and not viewed as an
integral part of AARD's work program.
(ii)    Technical staff allocated to CARP was not adequate to meet its mandate. This was partially
addressed by appointing a Technical Advisory Committee of senior AARD scientists to
assist CARP staff in their activities.
(iii)   The MIS subcomponents have not been fully integrated to be useful to scientists at the
research institutes.
(iv)   Local short-term training progressed slowly initially and, in some cases, the duration of the
training and the basic qualifications of trainees to the topic covered were not appropriate.
There is a need to improve the selection procedure, coordination, development of
curriculum, etc.
10



(v)    The implementation of the REL component was delayed due to the absence of a mechanism to
allow researchers and extension workers to work together with farmers on on-farm trials
and demonstrations.
(vi)   The contract of the Technical Assistance Team was one year behind the project start-up. The
post of the Research Programming Specialist was vacant for a long time, and
subsequently there were four team leaders during the project period, showing a big turn
over of TA leadership.
(vii)   During the initial years of project implementation, adequate research operating funds were not
allocated to priority research areas identified and agreed during negotiation, nor GOI's
provision of O&M funds was sufficient to maintain the equipment and buildings. This has
since been improved considerably. In the absence of multi-year planning and approval
of research proposals, researchers face uncertainty and were not able to conduct research
effectively.
KevLssn Leared
17. Assistance over a series of projects to support GOI's commitments to strengthen the national research
system has shown favorable results. The first two projects (NAR I and NAR II) from 1975-1989, helped
to develop basic infrastructure, facilities, and a critical mass of scientists and technical staff. The timing of
ARMP was most appropriate to consolidate the earlier gains. The key lessons learned from the
implementation of ARMP include:
(i)    To assign priority to an improved research management capacity and to promote the most
productive and cost effective use of research investments is the most logical and
profitable step after having investments in basic infrastructure and staff.
(ii)   It takes time to build research capacity and for institutional changes to evolve and implement
to improve research efficiency and cost effectiveness.
(iii)   A decentralized R&D system with strong linkages to local government and other regional
institutions, through improved coordination mechanism, is needed to fully benefit from
new grains of national research achievement, and to use available local knowledge.
(iv)   There is a need to institutionalize fanning systems research, emphasizing location specific and
on-farm activities, in major agroecological zones, with particular attention to resource-
based development and socio-economic conditions in rural communities. This would go a
11



long way in increasing income of poor families and reducing poverty. This process of
institutionalization must also incorporate participative planning and priority setting
involving users of technology (farmers, other stakeholder). At present there is limited
feedback to researchers from technology end-users.
(v)    To improve the monitoring of quality and relevance of research, there is a need to set up key
indicators at the outset and collect baseline data for these indicators so that the social,
economic, and environmental impact of R&D outputs can be measured over a period of
time.
(vi)   The research management procedures and tools currently adopted by AARD need to be
further fine-tuned to meet the specific needs of the research units at both the national and
regional levels. For example, there is a need to further improve assessment of priorities
for research with economic efficiency as one of the important criterion, need to have
routine assessment of economic impact of adoption of technology to users, need to more
effective use of micro-agro-economic and other social scientists in developing research
programs, etc.
(vii)  In developing an MIS, consideration should be given to its usefulness to the scientists and
technical staff at the research units, in addition to its use by the managers, planners, and
administrators. There is a need to increase the appreciation of MIS by scientists.
(viii)  The master plan for human resource development need to be drawn up in the early stages of
project design and preparation as a sound basis for determiining long-term and short-term
training needs and technical assistance requirements. Due consideration need to be given
to post-evaluation of trainees after returning to their research units.
(ix)   While providing for the senior technical advisor under the TA contract, due consideration
need to be given to mitigate practical problems of availability of suitably qualified persons
on a long term basis.
(x)    To improve the quality and relevance of research under the university grant scheme, there is a
need to plan, implement, and review the research proposals jointly by AARD and
university scientists.
12



Action
18. The mission noted the excellent documentation by the AARD of the progress of project
implementation (Annex 5). The mission had detailed discussion with AARD officials and staff on the
government's input to the ICR. Draft reports submitted to the mission were reviewed and discussed and
suggestions were offered to prepare the final draft. It was agreed that a revised and final ICR will be
submitted to the World Bank by May 15, 1996. The revised ICR should incorporate all comments and
suggestions following discussion with the ICR mission. In particular, the final report should include:
(i)    a section on factors affecting project implementation, i.e., constraints experienced during
implementation for each of the component;
(ii)    a section on lessons learned with analytical assessment of issues which need to be addressed in
the follow-up project;
(iii)   a section on impact assessment with a comprehensive summary of research findings, its
economic and social implications, and, if possible, benefit cost analysis of the
recommended technology;
(iv)   a section on achievements/limitations on the priority areas of research component, i.e., socio-
economics, fisheries, horticulture, livestock, postharvest, and biotechnology. (It would be
useful to follow sample report of fisheries.)
(v)    Sustainability of activities supported under ARMP as evidenced by budget allocation to
AARD for 1996/1997.
Other   enation
19. A large number of research activities supported under ARMP have resulted in valuable data and
information. The mission reommends that AARD publishes, in appropriate publications, outstanding
research results for wider dissemination, promotion, and utilization by end-users. Where relevant,
emphasis should be made on the economic impact on farmers' income, productivity, export, agro-
business, etc.
13



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL IFSIFARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ARMP
aBRD Loan 3031-IND)
March 11-22. 1996 Final Supervision Mission
LIST OF DRAFT REPORTS REVIEWED BY THE MISSION
1. Assessment of the Impact of ARMP on AARD's Research Centers and Institutes (March 1996)
2. Achievements of ARMP at CRIFI (March 1996)
3. Implementation Completion Report - Project Review from Borrower's Perspective (March 12, 1996)
4. Long-term and Short-term Training - Impact on AARD Staff (March 1996)
5. Research-Extension Linkage (REL) Program - Impact on Target Groups in Selected Provinces (March
1996)
6. Research Grant Program Impact on the Universities (March 1996)
7. Scientific Exchange Program Impact on AARD Staff (March 1996)
8. Technical Assistance and Training (June 1990 to March 1996)



APPENDIX B
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE
Evaluation Summary
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3031-IND)
INDONESIA
Note: This ICR includes the summary of a document submitted by the Agency for
Agricultural Research and Development of the Ministry of Agriculture, dated March 1 1,
1996, on the Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective, Implementation
Completion Report of the Agricultural Research Management Project (Loan 303 1-IND).






Document of
The Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
Ministry of Agriculture, Republic of Indonesia
Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
Prepared for World Bank Supervision Mission
IMPLENIENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
IND ONEiSIA
AGRICULTURAL RE-SEARChI MNANAGEMIENT PROJECT (ARMP D)
(Loan 303 I-IND)
March 11, 1996



Evaluation Sum-nary
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3031-IND)
1NDONESIA
Introduction
1.    World Bank support to AARD began in 1975 with the Agricultural Research
and Extension Project (Ln. 1179-IND for USS21.5 million, including USS16.7
million  for research).   The project,  which began  shortly  after AARD's
creation, was an important building block in the Agency's early development
of its national research capacity.   It strengthened production-oriented
research programs for rice, secondary food crops, highland vegetables, and
rubber through the provision of buildings and equipment, training, and
technical assistance.
2.    Continuing support for research was provided through the National
Agricultural Research Project which started in 1980 (Ln. 1840/Cr. 1014-IND,
USS65 million, closing date 6/30/90). This project was designed to support
more broad-based objectives of Repelita III emphasizing non-rice research,
i.e., lowland vegetables, livestock, fisheries, forestry, industrial crops,
and estate crops other than rubber.  The project continued provision  for
infrastructure, equipment, postgraduate training, various types of other
training  and  long-term  and  short-term  technical  assistance.    It  also
formalized research reviews initiated under the first project by providing for
regular biennial reviews by AARD and independent specialists.
3. AARD has also received Bank support for specific research components
included in four other projects: (a) the Transmigration III project (Ln. 2248-
IND), (b) the Second Swamp Reclamation Project (Ln. 2431-IND), (c) the Upland
Agriculture and Conservation Project (Ln. 2474-IND), (d) the Nusa Tenggara
Agricultural Support Project (Ln. 2638-IND), and (e) the Integrated Swamps
Development Project (Ln. 3755-IND).
Project Objectives, Design, and Components
4.    The major objective of the project was to increase the efficiency and
relevance of the agricultural research system for continued, sustained
agricultural development. The project employed a two-pronged design: (a) It
operationally supported critical elements of the on-going research programs,
particularly  by  strengthening  research  in  the  priority  fields  of
-biotechnology, fisheries, horticulture, livestock, postharvest technology, and
socioeconomics in line with established GOI research priorities; and (b) it
introduced institutional and management reforms to improve research. Specific
components financed and implemented under the project can be summarized as
follows: (a) improving research management and organization by (i) assistance
vi



in the establishment of the Center for Agricultural Research Programming which
has provided both strength and direction to the national agricultural research
program, (ii) supporting AARD in the implementation of management reforms,
(iii) strengthening the Secretariat and research centers/institutes to manage
research programs, and (iv) providing training and technical assistance in
research management and administration as well as in selected disciplines and
specializations; (b) strengthening research-extension linkages which have
supported the regionalization of agricultural R&D; and (c) providing overall
support to the national research system.
Implementation Experience and Results
S.    The Project has been implemented over a six year period and has achieved
its objectives.  The Project implementation period bridged two important
events in development planning in Indonesia.  On March 31, 1994 the First
Twenty Five Year Long-Term Development Plan (PJP I) ended and PJP II was
initiated on April 1, 1994. These dates also marked the ending of Repelita
V and the beginning of Repelita VI.  AARD played a significant role in the
formulation of both the PJP 1I and Repelita VI, not only in defining the
future direction of the agricultural R&D subsector but also in the future
direction of the agricultural sector. Of significance to Project activities,
the future direction features a shift from commodity-based planning to
resource-based planning with emphasis on optimizing productivity in the
regions through improvement in integrated farming systems and diversification
of the agricultural sector with emphasis on development of agribusiness and
agroindustries.    AARD  responded  to  this  initiative  by  regionalizing
agricultural R&D activities.   The experience gained  in the Project  in
implementing management reforms and providing support to the national
agricultural research system (NARS) will enhance this effort.
6.    The Center for Agricultural Research Programming (CARP) was established
during the Project period and has played a major role in strengthening and
directing the national agricultural research program. Additional changes in
AARD's organizational structure include the strengthening and support of the
Center for Agricultural Machinery Development (CAMD) to facilitate postharvest
research in addition to developing tools for production activities, and the
creation of two research institutes for agricultural biotechnology - one for
food crops and the second for estate crops. By Ministerial Decree Issued In
the early stages of Repelita VI, the names and mandates of several of AARD's
16 research institutes were changed to better reflect their future missions.
*Perhaps-the-most significant structural change was the establishment of 17
Assessment Institutes for Agricultural Technology (AIATs) to serve the
regionalization of agricultural R&D in all 27 provinces of the nation.
vii



7     In the area of management reforms, the Project assisted AARD in the
development of an Agricultural Research Policy Statement and Action Plan
(ARPS&AP), and the development of Research Master Plans (RMPs) first for the
food crops subsector and later for all commodity based research centers and
institutes. These Project initiatives served AARD, the largest R&D agency of
the GOI's several departments of government, well in responding to an
initiative of the State minister of Research and Technology (HORT), which
provid-e the budget for all GOI R&D agencies, in creating a 'one-gate policy,
for review and approval of all R&D proposals.  With CARP leadership and
Project  support,  AARD  has- improved  its  project  proposal  format  and
"socialized"  its use  throughout  the Agency.   Other  Project  supported
initiatives include the development and application of a priority setting
process and peer review of project proposals and of research results. The
impact of these management reforms is evidenced by AARDs success in securing
steadily increased funding levels for its R&D programs and in the publication
in 1995of the AARD Stratecic Plan. 1995 - 2005 which articulates major and
subprogram areas and their priority for action under four levels of R&D
activity from production technology to basic research.
8.    Management reforms implemented by the Secretariat in addition to the
structural changes mentioned above include job descriptions, operational and
technical guidelines for management procedures in all AARD work units
including the AIATs; implementation of the New Government Accounting System
(NCAS) and related financial reforms; the formulation of a staff development
plan and support to the personnel division;  the preparation of technical
guidelines for procurement of goods and services and their maintenance and
storage, the development of an inventory of assets, and unit cost estimates
of R&D activities for budgeting purposes which are used by BAPPENAS/DG of
Budget as a reference in monitoring agricultural R&D expenditures. The unit
cost estimates developed in the Project are also used by the National Research
Council in evaluating research proposals for funding of agricultural R&D
activities.
9.    Another significant management reform supported by the Project was the
evolution of the Management Information System (MIS). The MIS, while neither
as yet fully formulated nor uniformly applied throughout the Agency, has
matured significantly during the Project period.  At the end of Project,
revised versions (release 2.0) of five standard software programs for MIS
components covering, research programs, personnel, finances, research
facilities, and research monitoring have been developed along wlth operational
manuals, -and distributed throughout the Agency to the research institute
level. A sixth component on collaborative research has been developed but the
software program and manual have not yet been finalized and distributed. Over
100 functional grade computer operators have been trained and now serve the
MIS and contribute computing skills throughout AARD.   Eighty seven (87)
viii



computers have been distributed to work units to support the implementation
of the HIS.
10.   The human resource development component of the project has contributed
92 advanced degree holders to AARD'r professional staff of over 2,000 research
scientists and managers, with 262 trained at the Ph.D. and 737 at the M.Sc.
or equivalent level. The Project has supported over 2,000 short-term training
participants - 60 percent in management related training and 40 percent in
technical skill courses. AARD's human resource base was further enriched by
the implementation of a Scientific Exchange Program which supported trips to
selected countries abroad for 62 individuals and 15 teams of research
scientists and managers to participate in international conferences and
workshops, develop collaborative research opportunities, and observe R&D
management strategies employed by international agricultural research centers
and other NARS.
11.   In the area of technical assistance, the Project has provided 209 staff
months of foreign and 263 staff months of local consultant time in the areas
of research management, research programming, financial management, civil
works and procurement, impact assessment, and support for technical skills in
selected commodity and discipline research areas.
12.   Strengthening  research-extension  linkages  (REL) was  another major
component of the Project. Soon after Project initiation a workshop was held
to prepare an action plan for strengthening REL that detailed activities in
providing research informatlon to extension workers, training extension
workers, provision of researchers as resource persons, conducting on-farm
research and verification trials, conducting field days, and producing
technical publications.   REL Pilot Programs were conducted in 19 of the
nation's 27 provinces.   A good balance of commodity and resource-based
technologies were demonstrated in the pilot program with 36 events featuring
food  crops  including  horticulture,  25  demonstrations  of  fisheries
technologies, 20 for livestock, 13 for estate and industrial crops, and 10 on
soil and water management. An impact assessment revealed that 70 percent of
the farmers surveyed indicated that they would continue to apply the REL
technologies using their own assets but only 37 percent indicated that they
could secure credit from local financial institutions to purchase needed
inputs.
13. As indicated earlier, a major thrust of'the Project was to provide
operational-res.arch-support to priority commodity and research areas. This
has been accomplished as evidenced by the increased portion of the AARD's
development budget allocated to the priority areas during the Project period.
Of equal if not greater importance is the significant increase (over nine
fold) in the AARD's development budget over this period and the marked
ix



reduction in its reliance on external funding (from over 70 percent in FY
1988/89 to less than 10 percent in rY 1994/95). Another impact of the Project
support for management reforms is that during the six year period from FY
1989/90 through FY 1994/95, the AARD has disbursed 97.3 percent of its
allocated budget.
14.   Significant progress has also been made in the promotion of research
supported by the private sector. Thic is not only reflected in the nearly 80
percent increase in the level of contracted research, but also in the
advancement in communicatiqn -with private sector firms. The Project supported
a national seminar on AARD-Private Sector Collaboration in 1992 which has
resulted in a memorandum of understanding with the Agribusiness Club, the
conducting of surveys on the potential for RAD collaboration with the private
sector, and the establishing of a Communication Forum for Agribusiness R&D
(COFARD). COFARD initiated weekly discussions on relevant agribusiness R&D
needs in which 26 topics have been discussed with 24 agribusiness associations
and five seminars have been conducted on selected topics - all with the aim
of developing collaborative R&D activities.
15.   The Project has also supported a University Research Grant Program which
has funded a total of 323 research proposals (of the 1,233 proposals received)
with Rp. 3.483 billion.   Proposals  were  received  from  all  29 public
universities associated with the agriculture sector and proposals were
approved for funding in 27 of them. While this activity has generated good
will and greatly strengthened the institutional collaboration between AARD and
the universities, the desired actLve, sustained collaborative linkage between
AARD's researchers and university scientists is still lacking. Only seven of
the 323 projects were judged to be conducted in a truly collaborative manner.
16.   The provision of civil works for selected priority laboratories and
programs has been successfully completed. These include buildings, furniture,
and equipment for the Secretariat in Pacar Minggu, Jakarta; the Center for
Agro-Socioeconomic Research in Bogor; the Research Institute for Marine
Fisheries in the Jakarta port area; the Research Institute for Inland
Fisheries at Sukamandi, West Java. Facilities for postharvest technology for
food crops were constructed at the Research Institute for Rice at Sukamandi,
West Java and for horticulture at Pasar Minggu, Jakarta; and facilities to
support biotechnology research in 'ood crops were constructed at the Research
Institute for Food Crops in Bogor and for estate crops in Ciomas, Bogor.
Future.-Operations
17.   Perhaps the most significant impact of the Project to AARD has been its
assistance in preparation to support the regionalization of agricultural R&D
which  is  a  major  thrust  of  the  ARMP  1I.    The  management  reforms
x



institutionalized in ARMP I will be transferred to the AIAT staff in the
regions.  Lessons learned from the REL activities will be applied to the
technology transfer activities in ARM? II. Collaborative research activities
with universities and the private sector will continue and support the
development of agribusiness and agroindustries in the regions.   Project
support to priority commodity and research areas will enhance the ability of
the AARD's work units to backstop the R&D activities of the AIATs.
Key Lessons Learned
Imoroving Research Manaoement and Oroanization
18.   Perhaps the greatest lesson learned in this component of ARMP I is the
value of internal forward planning as evidenced by the significant impacts of
ARMP I supported activities such as the national seminar on 'AARD in the 1990.
and Beyond, AARD's role in the formulation of PJP II Repelita VI, and the
contributions made by the APS&AP and RHPs to the AARD's Stratecic Plan. 1995 -
2005 which will provide guidance to the regionalization efforts to be
detailed in the R&D-MPs of the AIATs.
19.   Another worthy lesson learned is the need to clearly define R&D programs
before setting rigid institutional and staffing structures. This is becoming
increasingly evident as the development of the AIATs is evolving where
physical facilities have been designed and staffing patterns set before the
R&D-MPs have been developed to design the desired R&D and technology transfer
programs.
20. In moving from centralized to regional planning and programming, more
and detailed guidelines will be required in all areas of management reforms
generated in ARMP I.
21.   The successful development and negotiation of the ARMP 11 proposal over
a relatively short time period provided a significant lesson in project
preparation which has added to AARD's research management skills and provided
institutional confLdence for the successful future implementation of that
important project.
Strenathening Research-Extension Linkaoes
22.   Location specificity. exists in the capacity and institutional "culture"
as well as for development of appropriate technologies to facilitate thelr
transfer. Availability of credit, need for lower cost locally available
inputs, and a continuing liaison among researchers, extension workers and end
users are conditions for sustained use of improved technologies.
xi



23.   More difficulties are encountered in assessing both constraints to and
the impact of innovation, in farming systems compared with similar innovations
for specific commodities.
24.   There will be a continuing need for major attention at the research
institutes to backstopping activities of the AIATs.
Providino Overall Suooort to the National Research Svytem
25.   Quality R&D programs justify increased resource allocations as have been
experienced during the implementation of ARMP 1. Quality research scientists,
development practitioners, administrators and managers served by quality
facilities and tools must remain a priority for R&D programs.
26.   Prior planning and follow-up are key elements in sustaining a proactive
mode in developing collaborative R&D activities with local as well as
international institutions and individuals.  There is a need for industry
demand driven guidelines for collaborative research with the private sector
as well as good coordination of the participatory approach.   Different
perceptions of the relative roles of the public and private sector remain and
these are relevant to the funding of collaborative efforts.
xii



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28235
THAILAND    '                          *io                         5                                                                                                INDONESIA
d; A..h                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I..
gnda Aceh                     <J_[                                                                                                          PHIUPPINES            ,~   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CENTERS, RESEARCH INSTITUTES,
5/ .o                         , '            ASSESSMENT INSTITUTES AND AARD SECRETARIAT (1996)
13                    MALAYSIA                                                       BRUNEI           
3'  -     \       ALAYSIA                                                      BRU I                           L.r.                                                          ESEAkCH CENT_RS RANSTTUTES   0   PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
\ eA   _'g."                                                                                                                                                          A    FOOO CROPS                 PROVINCEBOUNDARIES
j   S5                             ,.               \                                                                                                              U *    HDOTICJUF            -  INSRNMTNATI  BUNOARIES
(                                                                              * Sunsul Fwi  /  INDUSTRtAL CROPS
12    )                                                           MALAYSIA   j                                                                                   g    ANA SCINCES
JKI. .ASARTA  P.kaflbao~  ,:-SINGAPORE                                                                                                                            ASSEASMEA rT  NFS    R.-h CnA/Ub- o  -d a1j w-
P.k..b.,U                                                                                                                             ALAIAHERA              C)  SECkETAkW              A,e-^cE &0.lyo kIcol d                C.
C-                           >A  Pn.V bng lAon                   p                 K A L I      A' N T A N                       '                                                                                                     A
S..I         A          9                                                                               S-AAT   )o Smo_    .dd.ry  SUEI'                                                                                       ..u 
JAWA BARAT                             F 
JAWA TENGAH                         8                                                                                                                                                                                 IRIAN JAYA
DI.D YOGYAKARTA                                       Burug                         An                                                                                      oA,0  A                                                         _
JAWA T IMUR          B..gk.l.,7                                                               0q -InArmA *O!K..dari                                   *        >Un   Alcn                                  !                                   3
LAMP UNG                        X         ,5
BENGKULU                                                                                                                 0  r *Z A
5     SUMATERA SELATAN
RIAU                                  r.oIOog       ,                                                        Uong P.onig'                                                                                                                    <
*JAMBI                                        <ANI
SUMATERA SARAT                                 *         Rr                                                                                                                                                                                  |L
SUMATERA UTARA                                     Vg6oog
Di ACK                                              WO&,a     0-
KALIMANTAN SARAT                                  VpSoi                                                                                                                                                                                     I MA
KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                7     MAun                          MArJwTA
KALIMANTAN SELATAN                              A * E,NZ        S.m..n.GA U _
KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                           J A WA                    S,.b.y.
* SULAWESI TENGAH                                                      -0 OPon    *AU
2  i               -        EIAU         SU~~~~~~~WMBAWA
*  SULAWUSI UTARA                                                Yogyelr,  APJ0   '                                                   ERAS
SULAWESI SELATAN                                                             K.-VI.-  b., *            Man             !
SULAWESI TENGGARA                                                                                     0
NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                        DP*   LOUMOK        -riOS                                                                                    KILOMETERS                             1'o
NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR                                                                                                                                                                     a                           fi 60      1
MALUKU                                                                                                                                   KUp-Vq A Alw   r
IRIAN JAYA                 -h. ooodon.. ncIc  d.co  c0A0cn  od  -oy w)h., I0100000                                    SU/MBA                  0                                                is      i
TIMOR TIMUR                sho-  'on     'too do Mot ;,.oly on   rr    n  - I  of T..  ool  ooEk
TIMORTIMUR          Gnooo  ony ,odgo_..on cc tO I.go .0to. ol 00)' r*9 0irr 00o)o^ 
*cdo,*.ctoctcoo e;oroptccof t.cbocoudo,i..
100-                       105-                      rEO'                        Ito'                       120'                                                                                                          SEtOEMEEE 150'99O02
SEPTEcE( 1996









IMAiAINIT
Report No;:         Il073
Type: ICR



