Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7504-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1989
Asia Regional Office
Country Department V
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 1988)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00        =  Rp 1660
Rp 1 million   =  US$602.41
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                    =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)    =   1,000 ha = 0.39 sq miles
1 hectare (ha)                 -   2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                =   2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)             =   2,206 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAETE    - Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
AARD     - Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAPPENAS -  Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional-National Planning and
Development Agency
BI       -  Bank Indonesia
CADP     -  Center for Agricultural Data Processing, Jakarta
CAER     -  Center for Agro-Economic Research, Bogor
CARP     -  Center of Agricultural Research Programming
CGIAR    -  Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research,
Washington, D.C.
CSR      -  Center for Soil Research, Bogor
DG       -  Director General
GOI      -  Government of Indonesia
IARC     -  International Agricultural Research Center
IRRI     -  International Rice Research Institute, Los Banos, Philippines
ISNAR    -  International Service for National Agricultural Research, The
Hague, Netherlands
LIPI     -  National Institute for Indonesian Sciences
M&E      - Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      - Management Information System
MOA      - Ministry of Agriculture
NLAS     -  National Library for Agricultural Sciences
NARP     -  National Agricultural Research Project
O&M      -  Operation and Maintenance
ODA      -  Overseas Development Agency (UK)
PIU      -  Project Implementation Unit
PPL      -  Penyluh Pertanian Lapangan - field extension worker
PPS      -  Penyluh Pertanian Spesialis - extension subject matter specialist
PTP      -  Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan, State-owned estate enterprise with
limited liability
RC       -  Research Center
RCC      -  Research Coordinating Center
RCCF     -  Research Coordinating Center for Fisheries, Jakarta
RCCFC    -  Research Cooardinating Center for Food Crops, Bogor
Repelita -  Five Year Plan
RGB      -  Research Grant Board
RICA     -  Research Institute for Coastal Aquaculture
RI       -  Research Institute
RIFF     -  Research Institute for Freshwater Fisheries, Sukamandi
RIH      -  Solok Research Institute for Horticultural Crops, West Sumatra
RIMF     -  Research Institute for Marine Fisheries, Jakarta
RKMP     -  Research Master Plan
SA       -  Special Account
SOE      -  Statement of Expenditure
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY .................................................   iv
I.   PROJECT  AND  SECTOR  BACKGROUND ....................................   1
A.   Project  Background ...........................................   1
B.   Agricultural  Sector ..........................................   2
II.   THE  AGRICULTURAL  RESEARCH  SUBSECTOR ..............................   4
A.   Institutional  Framework ......................................   4
B.   Research  Planning  and  Reviews ................................   8
C.   Research  Priorities ..........................................   9
D.   Research  Programs  and  Performance ............................ 10
E.   Research  Funding ............................................. 13
F.   Issues  in  Agricultural  Research  and  Changing  Requirements .... 14
G.   Experience  under  Previous  Projects ........................... 15
H.   GOI's  Future  Research  Policy  and  Strategy .................... 17
I.   Bank  Role  and  Subsector  Strategy ............................. 17
III.   THE  PROJECT ......................................................  18
A.   Rationale  for  Bank  Involvement ............................... 18
B.   Project  Objectives  and  Design ................................ 18
C.   Project  Description .......................................... 19
D.   Detailed  Features ............................................ 20
Improving  Research  Management  and  Organization ............... 20
Strengthening  Research-Extension  Linkages .................... 22
Supporting  Overall  National  Research  System .................. 23
IV.   PROJECT  COSTS  AND  FINANCING ...................................... 25
A.   Cost  Estimates ............................................... 25
B.   Financing .................................................... 26
C.   Procurement .................................................. 29
D.   Disbursements ................................................ 31
E.   Accounts  and  Audits .......................................... 32
F.   Preparation  Status  and  Implementation  Schedule ............... 32
This project is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in September 1988. The mission comprised Messrs. D. Leeuwrik,
P. Tamboli, A. Pritchard, A. Byrne (Bank), T. Ulbricht and J. Nabney (ODA).
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................................ 32
A.   Implementation Arrangements .................................. 32
B.   Project Organization and Management .......................... 33
C.  MIS Development .............................................. 35
D.  Operational Funding .......................................... 35
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation .................................... 35
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................................... 36
A.   Benefits ..................................................... 36
B.  Beneficiaries ................................................ 37
C.  Resource Utilization and Environmental Effects ............... 37
D.  Risks and Uncertainties ...................................... 37
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............................ 38
ANNEXES
1.   Table 1.   Summary of Research Coordinating Centers/
Institutes ......................................... 40
Table 2.  Non-Bank External Support for AARD ................. 45
2.  GOI's Agricultural Research Policy Statement ................. 46
3.  Research Fund ................................................ 59
4.  Terms of Reference of Key Technical Assistance Personnel ..... 62
5.   Project Costs by Component
Table 1.   Center for Agricultural Research Programming
(CARP) ........................................... 65
Table 2.   Management Information System - Investment and
Operation Costs .................................. 66
Table 3.  Technical Assistance and Training ................ 67
Table 4.  Research Extension Linkages  (NLAS - Library) ..... 68
Table 5.  Other Investment and Research Operating Costs .... 69
Table 6.  University Research Grant Fund ................... 70
Table 7.  Civil Works ...................................... 71
Table 8.  Center for Agricultural Economics ................ 72
Table 9.  Estate Crops - Biotechnology ..................... 73
Table 10. Food Crops - Post Harvest Technology ............. 74
Table 11. Inland Fisheries ................................. 75
Table 12. Marine Fisheries ................................. 76
Table 13. Coastal Aquaculture Fisheries .................... 77
Table 14. Project Components by Year ....................... 78
Table 15. Summary Accounts by Year ......................... 79
Table 16. Project Cost Summary ............................. 80
6. Lists of Equipment
Table 1.  Budget Requirements of Equipment ................. 81
Table 2.  Farm Equipment - Food Crops Mojosari ............. 82
Table 3.  Farm Equipment - Food Crops Muneng ............... 83
Table 4.  Farm Equipment - Food Crops Pusaka Negara ........ 84
Table 5.  Farm Equipment - Horticulture Solok .............. 85



- iii -
Page No.
Table 6.  Farm Equipment - Horticulture Subang ............. 86
Table 7.  Farm Equipment - Industrial Crops Bone-Bone ...... 87
Table 8.  Farm Equipment - Industrial Crops KP Bajeng ...... 88
Table 9.  Farm Equipment - Fresh Water Fisheries Sukamandi. 89
Table 10. Scientific Equipment - Secretariat/CARP Jakarta.. 90
Table 11. Scientific Equipment - Postharvest Horticulture
Jakarta .......................................... 91
Table 12. Scientific Equipment - Horticulture, Solok ....... 92
Table 13. Scientific Equipment - National Library
Agricultural Science ............................. 94
Table 14. Scientific Equipment - Biotechnology Bogor ....... 95
Table 15. Scientific Equipment (Laboratory) - Marine
Fisheries Jakarta ................................ 96
Table 16. Scientific Equipment (Laboratory) - Fresh Water
Fisheries Sukamandi .............................. 99
Table 17. Scientific Equipment - Agro-Economics, Bogor ..... 102
Table 18. Furniture - Secretariat .......................... 103
Table 19. Furniture - Agro Economic ........................ 104
Table 20. Furniture - Marine Fisheries            ..... 105
Table 21. Furniture - Fresh Water Fisheries ................ 106
7. Research Operational Expenditure
Table 1. Incremental Project Costs ......................... 107
Table 2. AARD Budget from 1974-75 to 1988-89  . .......... 108
Table 3. Projected Non-Incremental Expenditure of AARD for
1988-89 to 1993 ................................... 110
8.  Disbursement Schedule .      .     .     .1.................................... ll
9.  Implementation Schedule .      .    .................................... 112
10. Selected Documents on Data Available in Files ................ 117
CHARTS
1.  Organogram of GOI's Ministry of Agriculture .................. 118
2.  Existing Organization of AARD ................................ 119
3.  Proposed Organization of AARD ................................ 120
4.  Organization of CARP ......................................... 121
MAP IBRD No. 21218






- iv -
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Indonesia
Amount:        US$35.3 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayable in 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The project would be implemented over five years as part of a
long-term institutional reform program and would support GOI's
efforts to strengthen the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD)'s management through specific actions to
improve planning, programming, monitoring, evaluation,
information, and financial and economic analysis skills. It
would also increase the efficiency and relevance of the ongoing
national research program by providing operations support.
Specifically, it would, within the framework of an agreed
agricultural research Policy Statement and Action Program:
(a) improve research management organization by (i) establishing
a center for agricultural research programming (CARP) and an
efficient research planning system to strengthen and give
direction to the national agricultural research program;
(ii) preparing a rolling Research Master Plan to direct
agricultural research investments and to indicate research
priorities and identify facilities and staffing needs;
(iii) implementing management reforms in AARD to strengthen
AARD's capabilities to manage and support research programs,
including improving financial management, accounting and
reporting, the development of a management information system
(MIS), and a staff development program; and (b) strengthen
research collaboration and research-extension linkages by
(i) establishing a systematic program of support, including
training, for research information communication and
dissemination, and research-extension linkages, through
seminars, workshops, collaborative on-farm research trials and
linkages with extension services; and (ii) establishing a
research grant fund to be managed by AARD for contracting
research at Indonesian universities; (c) provide overall support
to the national research system by (i) generally supporting
present national research efforts by providing incremental
operating funds; and (ii) providing training and technical
assistance in research management and administration and in
selected disciplines and specializations required for conducting
agreed priority research programs; and (d) expand research in
selected priority areas by (i) establishing and expanding



v 
selected laboratories and programs for post-harvest technology
research and biotechnology; (ii) expanding research on agro-
economics and agricultural diversification at the regional
level; and (iii) constructing facilities for freshwater
fisheries research and marine fisheries, for the AARD
Secretariat, and for the Center of Agro-economic Research.
The project would permit GOI and AARD to undertake essential
actions and reforms required for a more sharply focused,
efficiently managed, and cost-effective research service. The
improved research system, by more efficiently providing
economically viable, and socially and environmentally acceptable
production technologies for Indonesia's different agro-
ecologies, would strongly contribute to GOI's medium and long-
term policy objectives, leading to favorable effects on the
balance of payments, the budget, employment and human resource
development, and regional balance.
Risks:         The main risks are associated with possible unsatisfactory
implementation of project actions due to: (a) resistance to
policy and institutional change (requiring action at different
levels of government) and continued institutional weakness in
carrying out the required reforms; and (b) inadequate funding
for O&M expenditures. These risks will be minimized by
providing for: (a) agreement with GOI on a phased action plan
including a comprehensive operational financing plan, involving
GOI and various donors, and (b) strengthened research planning
and management, through technical assistance under the project,
and improved monitoring and regular reviews, including a joint
GOI-Bank mid-term review.



- vi -
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs:                                    Local      Foreign      Total
........ US$million.
Improving Research Management
and Organization                            7.6         6.0        13.6
Strengthening Research Collaboration
and Research-Extension Linkages             4.6         0.7         5.3
Supporting Overall National
Research System                            18.4         4.3        22.7
Base Cost                                  30.6        11.0        41.6 a/
Physical Contingencies                            1.6         0.6         2.2
Price Contingencies                               5.4         1.2         6.6
Total Project Costs                        37.6        12.8        50.4
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                             25.6         9.7       35.3
Japan Grant Facility                              0.6         2.8         3.4
Government of Indonesia                          11.4         0.3        11.7
Total                                      37.6        12.8        50.4
Disbursement:  Bank FY             1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
(US$million)
Annual             3.0      7.0      7.2     7.6      7.2      3.3
Cumulative         3.0    10.0    17.2    24.8    32.0    35.3
Rate of Return: n.a.
Map: IBRD No. 21218
a/ Including taxes and duties estimated at US$0.8 million.






INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.1      The Indonesian archipelago of some 13,000 islands straddles the equator
and extends for over 5,000 km from east to west and 2,000 km from north to
south. Differences in geological origin, topography and vast distances lead to
great variations in rainfall, climatic conditions, soils and vegetation; and
hence to diverse agricultural systems and opportunities for agricultural
production, which put special demands on the organization and implementation of
an integrated national agricultural research system.
1.2      Indonesia's impressive agricultural and economic growth, resulting,
inter alia, in the achievement of rice self-sufficiency in 1984/85, is a feat
which would have been impossible without a significant contribution from
agricultural research. A major national objective since the early 1970s has
been to expand and strengthen, with Bank and other donors' support, problem-
oriented agricultural research to sustain agricultural development, increase
rural employment and incomes, and expand non-oil export earnings. However,
while the performance of this important subsector has been impressive, past
research investments and programs have been heavily biased toward rice and were
concentrated to a large extent on Java. Moreover, research management has been
slow to adjust to the vast expansion in facilities and staff which has occurred
over the past decade. In order to maintain strong growth in the agricultural
sector and address emerging problems of sustainable resource use, productivity
and incomes, it is necessary to improve internal efficiency and to re-orient
research activities to accommodate changing conditions and evolving national and
sectoral priorities. The Bank has financed two agricultural research projects
in Indonesia. A third project was appraised in August 1985, but with the advent
of severe budgetary constraints in early 1986, processing of this project was
deferred pending further evaluation of research priorities and management
issues. Based on this evaluation, GOI and the Bank have agreed on a
reformulation of the project to focus on research management and efficient
utilization of available resources.
1.3      The proposed project would be the first phase of a longer-term policy
and institutional reform program of the national research system. The elements
of the project were determined in the course of several preparation missions
during which a draft Subsector Policy Statement and Action Program were prepared
to underpin the proposed changes. An appraisal mission in September 1988
reached broad agreement with GOI on project scope and content as well as the
draft Subsector Policy Statement and Action Program. The loan was negotiated in
Washington during February 1989.



- 2 -
B. The Agricultural Sector
Background
1.4      Agriculture is a key sector of the Indonesian economy, contributing
about 25% of GDP and providing employment for 55Z of the labor force.
Agriculture accounts for about 45% of the value of non-oil exports, while
agricultural commodities, primarily food, account for 6-8% of the value of non-
oil imports.  Of the country's cultivated area of 24 million ha (67Z of the
arable land area), about 8 million ha are under perennial crops, 9 million ha
are in upland areas, and 7 million ha are in lowlands suitable for rice
cultivation. Food crops account for about 60% of the agricultural GDP, with
rice alone accounting for 30% in 1985. Rice constitutes about 70% of the total
harvested area and 65% of the total production of food grains. The average size
of holdings all over Indonesia has declined during the last decade - from about
0.67 ha to 0.63 ha in Java and from 1.72 ha to 1.69 ha in the Outer Islands. In
Java, over 60% of land holdings are below 0.5 ha, with more than half of these
smallholdings being less than 0.25.
Objectives
1.5      The Government's major objectives for the agriculture sector during
various five-year plans (Repelita V: 1989-94) have been to: (a) increase
production to meet domestic food requirements and the needs of industry and
expanding agricultural exports; (b) increase farmers' incomes and generate
employment; (c) promote a balanced distribution of economic opportunities,
regional development, and land settlement through transmigration; and (d)
contribute to the health and better nutritional status of the population.
During Repelita V more emphasis is being placed on crop diversification and
increased expansion of subsectors other than rice (although efforts in rice
research and development will also need to continue), on greater efficiency,
sustainable resource management, and environmental protection, as well as on
regional balance and equity.
Performance and Future Development
1.6      Since 1969, agricultural growth has averaged about 4% p.a., outpacing
population growth by a significant margin. Rice production, which has grown at
5% p.a. since 1969 (6.3% p.a. since 1975), has been the backbone of the sector's
impressive performance. Other food crops (particularly corn) and cash crops
(such as oil palm and spices) have also shown good growth and added to the
substantial gains in rural welfare in past years. Livestock and poultry
production has increased steadily since the 1980s, but it has not kept pace with
the demand for animal products. Indonesia's fish harvest in excess of 2 million
tons annually is below potential, although some areas around Java and Sumatra
are overexploited. Most of the commendable performance in agriculture can be
attributed to three sets of factors: (a) sound macro-economic management
through a responsive and flexible exchange rate policy and controlled inflation;
(b) successful support for rice production programs (particularly in Java)
through intensive campaigns, which included subsidies for fertilizers,
pesticides and credit, research and extension support, and investment in
irrigation and rural infrastructure; and (c) increased focus on tree crop
development as a major economic activity off-Java.



1.7      The agricultural sector has played an important role in contributing to
growth, equity and stability in the Indonesian economy. However, in recent
years the pace of development has slackened, and it is clear that past
development strategies are no longer appropriate for at least three reasons:
(a) with the achievement of rice self-sufficiency and present technical and
physical constraints to rapid expansion of rice production, the sector can no
longer rely upon rapidly-expanding rice production to act as the engine of
growth; (b) faced with the present and likely future budget constraints,
Indonesia can no longer afford the large infrastructure investments and heavy
subsidies that fueled past development; and (c) while successful in growth
terms, past development did not always reach major poverty groups and gave
inadequate attention to environmental concerns. The challenge now is to sustain
growth in the sector through greater economic efficiency, and further
intensification and diversification of production. To compensate for the
expected slower growth in rice production, the sector must be induced to develop
new sources of growth.
1.8      Relatively low labor costs, fertile soils, and varying agro-climatic
conditions provide opportunities to improve economic efficiency in a technically
sound and environmentally sustainable manner. However, it is not feasible to
broaden the production base with the same combination of production controls and
heavy injections of subsidies that were used for rice. An effective policy
package of deregulation would include not only smallholders but also the
underutilized potential for large-scale private investment in production,
processing and export, and must underpin diversification by giving more emphasis
to tree crops, secondary crops, livestock, and fisheries on the one hand, and to
agricultural support services, processing and marketing on the other. New
policies to promote greater efficiency, productivity, and sound use of natural
resources are required to fuel sustainable agricultural sector growth. More
emphasis should be placed on balanced, equitable development of regions and
maximizing comparative advantage, low input-output-systems, and on conservation
of resources, with special attention to environmental impact and protection of
land development in fragile ecosystems. Future agricultural development must
aim to increase employment opportunities, stimulate agro-industrial development,
and contribute to growth in export earnings.
1.9      The above will require a change in emphasis of government support
programs, including research, from rice to other crops (and changing priorities
within rice), livestock and fisheries; from irrigated areas to uplands; and from
the inner to the outer islands. Budget stringency will also require strong
efforts to improve resource use. Research focus should move from a
preoccupation with production (almost regardless of cost) to a concern for
increasing productivity and farm incomes, providing farmers with technical
options and choices which could increase returns in farming systems by reducing
costs of production and utilizing the comparative advantage of major ecological
zones, as well as facilitating marketing and agro-industries, especially in
secondary crops. Changes will be required to deal more efficiently with
location-specific problems of adapting and extending improved technologies to
farmers at the regional level, and establishing effective research-extension
linkages at all levels. It will be necessary to increase expenditures on
research, extension and farmer communications generally, improve organization
and management of the research infrastructure, and introduce greater management
control in order to increase cost-effectiveness and efficiency. This will call
for a broad program of institutional reform and further human resource
development.



- 4 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SUBSECTOR
A. Institutional Framework
Historical Evolution of Agricultural Research
2.1      During the colonial era, agricultural research concentrated on
improvement of export crops (estate crops) such as rubber, sugar, tea and
coffee. Following independence, production of food crops, mainly rice, assumed
higher priority to satisfy consumers' caloric and nutritional needs. This was
reflected in GOI's first five-year development plan of 1969-74, which emphasized
rice production and assigned agricultural research responsibilities to the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and its Directorates General of Food Crops, Estate
Crops, Forestry, Fisheries and Animal Husbandry. Following a comprehensive
review by GOI and international consultants, it was recognized that the
organizational format of assigning responsibility for agricultural research on a
commodity basis to each Directorate was not fully meeting the requirements of an
effective, national research system. A subsequent Presidential Decree in 1974
established 14 agencies for research and development, including the Agency for
Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) to coordinate and administer the
national agricultural research system. AARD's organization has changed little
since 1974, but it did undergo some changes following Presidential Decrees in
1979 and 1983 to consolidate its role and enable it to carry out its functions
more effectively. As detailed in para. 2.38, the Bank group has been associated
with AARD since its creation and has supported its programs.
Current Agricultural Research Structure
2.2      Agricultural research is largely conducted by the following government
and academic institutions:
(a) Agency for Agricultural Research and Development. AARD is the
primary organization for agricultural research in Indonesia. It has
responsibility for all research relating to food and horticultural
crops, industrial and estate crops, fisheries, and livestock. Forestry
research, originally an AARD mandate, has been taken over by the
recently-established Ministry of Forestry.
(b) State-Owned Enterprises (PTPs). PTPs provide partial but significant
funding for six of the seven research institutes for estate crops under
a Board of Research Management, which is chaired by the Director
General of AARD. The seventh institute is totally funded by the PTPs.
The PTPs also provide total financing for research stations for sugar,
rubber, oil palm, coconut, cocoa and coffee. Research institutes for
estate crops are consequently better funded and have greater
independence than other research institutes coordinated by AARD.
Salaries and conditions for their staff are also generally better.



(c) National Institute for Indonesian Sciences (LIPI). LIPI includes
national institutes for various sciences, including institutes for
biology and oceanography which carry out fundamental agricultural
research on germ plasm collection and multiplication and fisheries,
respectively.l/
(d) Universities. Various universities, e.g. Pertanian Bogor, Gajah Mada,
and Brawijaya, are involved in different research areas, including
agricultural, environmental and watershed management research, with
students and through consultancies to outside agencies, but budgetary
constraints severely limit the scale of their activities.
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
2.3      Organization and Management.  The AARD organization includes a
Secretariat, a Center for Agricultural Data Processing, a National Library for
Agricultural Sciences, Centers for Soils Research and for Agro-Economic
Research, five Research Coordinating Centers (Food Crops, Horticultural Crops,
Industrial Crops, Fisheries, and Animal Sciences), a Board of Research
Management for Estate Crops, 27 research institutes, 51 research stations, and
197 experimental farms and ponds. AARD's existing organization is shown in
Chart 2, and a summary of Research Coordinating Centers (RCCs) and Research
Institutes (RIs) and their locations is given in Annex 1 and Map IBRD No. 21218.
AARD has established ten research complexes serving different regions to
facilitate location-specific technology testing and linkages with extension.
The complexes include germ plasm centers, laboratories and research facilities,
experimental stations and farms. At present all Directors report directly to
the Director General (DG) of AARD, a procedure which results in severe
administrative bottlenecks.
2.4      Secretariat.  The Secretariat coordinates the formulation of research
and development programs and the preparation of budgets for AARD, and is also
responsible for overall financial, personnel and general administration. Over
the past decade, however, the expansion of staff (AARD's entire professional
staff has increased from 220 to about 1,400) and research facilities has placed
considerable strain on AARD management, which is largely the responsibility of
the AARD Secretariat and its five divisions (Program Formulation, Cooperative
Research, Finance, Personnel, and General Administration). A number of reviews
conducted by GOI and external agencies have pointed out that the Secretariat's
administrative capacity has not kept pace with AARD's needs and recommended
reorganization and strengthening of the management structure to better define
research priorities, rationalize and consolidate administrative structures, and
efficiently use existing infrastructure and skilled personnel. Managerial
reforms to address these needs would be introduced under the proposed project.
2.5      Center for Agricultural Data Processing (CADP) has a mandate for
providing guidance and assistance in data processing and preparing statistics
for AARD and the MOA. Cooperating agencies are now pressing for
decentralization of this function. The role and functions of CADP would be
reorganized under the proposed project.
1/ Germ plasm is the basic plant genetic material used in research for
varietal improvement.



- 6 -
2.6      Center for Agro-Economic Research (CAER) is responsible for guiding and
coordinating agro-economic research, and providing training and assistance in
micro-economic research at AARD research institutes. It also conducts macro-
economic research and policy analyses for GOI. CAER is temporarily housed in
borrowed accommodation and needs appropriate, permanent facilities and
additional specialized staff to properly implement its important support role.
2.7      National Library for Agricultural Sciences (NLAS), the Communication/
Dissemination Departments of RCCs, and the library and information units of RIs
collect, retrieve and disseminate research results. These communication
activities are constrained by centralization and shortages of trained staff,
facilities and equipment. Under the project, these constraints would be
addressed and NLAS would be strengthened to enable it to provide coordination
for the research system as a whole.
2.8      Center for Soil Research (CSR). CSR is responsible for matters related
to land evaluation, soil mapping, standardization of soil analysis techniques,
and soil fertility testing, in addition to its own research program. It assists
the Director General of AARD in guiding and coordinating soil fertility and
productivity research programs carried out by the individual research
institutes, besides supporting the transmigration program in the inventory,
classification, mapping and evaluation of soil and land resources for
agricultural use. These programs would be supported under the proposed project,
particularly in the outer islands and in regional farming systems research.
2.9      Research Coordinating Centers and Research Institutes.  RCCs are each
responsible for coordinating research on a given commodity group. Each RI has a
mandate and serves as a national center for a particular commodity, and as a
research center for the problems of specific agro-ecological zones. RIs, which
are largely autonomous with regard to work program planning, establish their own
priorities for research under the general guidelines of AARD's management. The
project would introduce procedures which give greater responsibility for
administration of research programs to RCCs and ensure greater coherence between
national research and development goals and RI research programs.
National Research Coordination
2.10     Extensive arrangements exist within the government structure for the
review and coordination of Indonesia's agricultural research policy and
programs. An Agricultural Research Board is responsible for research policy,
funding and coordination of research programs. The Board is chaired by the
Minister of Agriculture and comprises the Directors General (DGs) for Food
Crops, Estate Crops, Fisheries, Livestock Services, AARD and the Agency for
Agricultural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE). There is also regular
consultation between AARD and the DGs, regular meetings of AARD and provincial
agricultural advisory committees, technical meetings on research for
transmigration, land use, etc., as well as monthly meetings with the Minister of
Science and Technology and research management workshops. Although this
structure for coordination is established, its actual operation needs to be
substantially revised and improved.
2.11     University research work is coordinated through a Forum of
Communication, consisting of AARD and the Directorate General for Higher
Education, which oversees a research working group involving the RCCs of AARD



- 7 -
and the universities. Communications between AARD and the universities are
fairly effective, but linkages between the two could be strengthened to promote
greater collaboration in research work and to take advantage of the currently
underutilized research capacity at universities. This would be done under the
proposed project by establishing an AARD-administered special research fund to
finance collaborative research projects at universities.
Research-Extension Linkages
2.12     AARD is responsible for conducting research, while the four DGs for
agricultural subsectors are responsible for extension under the coordinating
umbrella of AAETE. To forge closer linkages with extension, AARD has recently
established farming systems research with a whole-farm approach, and has also
established a communications unit responsible for assisting in extension
training courses, coordinating technical meetings and seminars, and publishing
technical bulletins and papers. A two-way flow of information between research
and extension can only exist through the constant interaction of staff from the
two services. To help establish these linkages, field extension workers (PPLs)
and extension subject matter specialists (PPSs) are expected to conduct
verification and other on-farm trials under the supervision of research
scientists. The PPSs are also required to spend a proportion of their time in
visiting research institutes, stations and farms to interact directly with
multidisciplinary research teams working there.  At the national and provincial
levels, a technical committee and five regional technical committees comprising
representatives from AARD, AAETE, the four agriculture DGs, and universities
were established under previous Bank-supported extension projects (Ln. 1267-IND
and Cr. 996-IND) to coordinate the technical support program and workshop and
training activities for extension workers.
2.13     The above arrangements provide a structure and opportunities for
updating extension workers on technological advances, and also a channel to
feed back information on constraints encountered in the field that need
attention from research workers. They have worked moderately well in some areas
but poorly in remote areas with difficult access to research and extension
facilities. Bureaucratic procedures also hinder timely interaction of research
and extension at regional and local levels. Furthermore, because in many
provinces there are no research stations, in practice many PPSs, especially
those at district level, have little contact with research, and, where they do,
research is sometimes slow to react to feedback on field problems. There is a
need to review the relative responsibilities of research and extension staff
from the various departments concerned in the conduct of adaptive trials, and in
the use of feedback from them. In order to strengthen and formalize the
relationship between research and extension, GOI has issued ministerial decrees
calling for: (a) monthly meetings of the Minister of Agriculture with the
Junior Minister and all DGs to discuss development constraints, requirements and
programs; (b) meetings once every two months of the Directors of Extension, the
Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Extension, and the Directors of the
Central Research Institutes of AARD to discuss technological constraints and
recommendations, and research requirements and progress; and (c) a semi-annual
dialogue involving farmer representatives, the Director of the Bureau of
Agricultural Extension, Directors of the RIs, and the DGs of AARD and AAETE to
provide greater farmer involvement in the identification of research problems.
The ongoing Bank-assisted Third National Agricultural Extension Project (Ln.
2748-IND) is facilitating more frequent meetings of research and extension



- 8 -
speca lists and encouraging implementation of coordinated activities in the ten
research complexes. However, these complexes still need to be made fully
operational and mechanisms need to be worked out so that all key staff,
including PPSs in the two to four provinces surrounding each complex, get
appropriate technical advice and training for all the representative farming
systems in their agro-ecological zones. Moreover, further improvements in
communications between the research and extension services should also be
effected by strengthening the NLAS and by more effectively using the ten
complexes to reduce the present disparity between existing linkages in different
provinces.
National and International Collaboration
2.14     AARD has established effective cooperation with other Government
agencies, including DGs of the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of
Transmigration, Ministry of Education and Culture, National Agency for Atomic
Energy, Indonesian Institute for Sciences, National Biological Institute,
National Oceanography Institute, National Coordination Agency of Surveys and
Mapping, and several universities. Cooperation with the private sector has also
increased substantially during the past five years. In addition, AARD maintains
close collaboration with the International Research Centers, especially the
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), and a number of other important
international organizations including the Asian Development Bank, European
Economic Community, Food and Agriculture Organization, and United Nations
Development Program. Close links have also been established with national
organizations in other countries, including Australia, Canada, France, Japan,
the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Most of this external support has been
dedicated to improving research facilities and human resources, particularly
through provision of long- and short-term technical assistance. Only a small
portion has been directly used for operational research funds, including
dissemination of research results. The major focus of collaborative research
has been on rice, but AARD is now expanding this to include other programs and
commodities. Through this cooperation, AARD has been able to build up its
research capacity and provide technical data and packages of technologies for
its different commodities and regions. Some universities are also involved in
international, collaborative research projects.
B. Research Planning and Reviews
2.15     Indonesia's State Guidelines provide the broad framework for research
planning and state explicitly that agricultural development should be
underpinned by research and extension, which in turn are directed by
comprehensive national policies translated into action programs. Details of
such national policies and programs are often not fully elaborated, however.
The Guidelines stress development based on efficient, integrated resource use,
coordinated with industrial and area development, transmigration and resource
conservation efforts. More detailed development targets and directions for
research priorities are given in the five-year plans (Repelitas). These form
the basis for detailed planning by AARD's Secretariat and research
centers/institutes.
2.16     Within the Guidelines, much of the actual planning is done at the
center/institute level. Research proposals are coordinated by the Secretariat
before being sent to the National Planning and Development Agency (BAPPENAS) for
budget allocation. Proposals are projects which may consist of a number of



- 9-
separate activities. Funds are allocated on a yearly basis, even for long-term
research, and priorities are set under budget constraints by either cutting
whole projects or activities within projects. There is, however, little
standardization of criteria and procedures used in planning and an insufficient
flow of information needed for sound planning decisions. Lack of stability in
funding is a problem and causes inefficiencies, increasing the cost of research.
At AARD's Secretariat level, planning capability is inadequate to coordinate,
guide and monitor the national research program. These issues were
insufficiently addressed in previous projects and their solution, in addition to
an improved structure, criteria and procedures for planning, are a first
priority to better utilize existing research resources in carrying out a cost-
effective, well-focused program.
2.17     To assist AARD in identifying research objectives, in program planning
and in analyzing achievements, periodic independent reviews have been conducted
under two Bank-supported projects by ISNAR and Joint AARD-consultant expert
teams covering a wide range of commodity research programs and support services.
During the past seven years, 11 reviews covering 25 of AARD's units were
conducted by teams of national and foreign scientists. The completed reviews
covered research programs and activities in horticulture, secondary crops,
fisheries, agro-economics, industrial crops, data processing and statistics,
information services, and organization and management of the Agency, and were
carried out to analyze past performance and on-going and proposed activities, in
order to identify means of strengthening the research programs both internally
and through external support. A number of the reforms proposed by these reviews
in organization and management, programming and planning, research evaluation,
budgetting, staff development, financial management, and research communication
are being implemented, but additional assistance is needed for further
implementation.
C. Research Priorities
2.18     Agricultural research during Repelita I (1969-74) and Repelita II
(1974-79) emphasized irrigated rice, the country's main grain crop, and, to a
lesser extent, rubber and oil palm. Under Repelita III (1979-84), research was
expanded to other subsectors such as secondary food crops, upland rice, and
cropping systems (including intercropping of coconuts and rubber), but not all
were developed to the same extent. Increasing attention was also given to agro-
economics and location-specific research on food crops. The main objective
under Repelita IV (1984-89) was to continue and expand research in the various
subsectors, especially rice, corn, tubercrops, legumes, horticultural and estate
crops, livestock and fisheries, with a slowly increasing focus on farming
systems for different agro-ecological zones. Efforts were also made to increase
the relevance of the overall research program to Government's objectives for
agriculture.
2.19     Repelita V (1989-1994) targets a growth in agricultural GDP of 4.8Z
p.a., including production increases varying in food crops from 2.4% p.a. for
rice and 3.52 p.a. for corn to about 10% p.a. for soybean and peanuts; and in
estate and industrial crops from about 5Z p.a. for rubber and coconut and 14%
p.a. for oil palm to 22Z p.a. for cocoa and 26% p.a. for tobacco. The themes
include food self-sufficiency, diversification, nutrition, increased employment,
incomes and value-added, and improved natural resource use and environmental
protection. These objectives are to be met through intensification,



- 10 -
extensification, rehabilitation and diversification of production in accordance
with the available resource base, giving special attention to smallholders'
needs and more marginal environments. This means more intensive production
systems, including double, triple, and intercropping, to increase yields and
production in high-potential areas; extension of cultivation and livestock
production to areas with less potential but, nevertheless, suitable for
agriculture; carefully matching production patterns to particular resource
endowments in old and new lands; and diversification on farm or area basis as
appropriate, including off-farm activities.
2.20     While much of this development would come from such actions as improved
extension, provision of inputs, and economic incentives, strong underpinning by
research would be required to support this growth. Indonesia currently has a
well-developed research program and, since most agricultural research is long-
term, major shifts in research focus will be gradually introduced over time.
The basic thrust of national research in developing new technology for the
important commodities produced in Indonesia will see only limited change in the
short term. Better research planning and management will delete research
activities of marginal utility, and identify research with high pay-off. During
Repelita V, research priorities will increasingly focus on commodities other
than rice; on an interdisciplinary approach with systems-orientation; and on
efficiency and productivity rather than maximum input-output systems.
Continuing priority would be given to research in rice, corn, tubercrops,
legumes, horticultural and estate crops, livestock and fisheries, with emphasis
on efficient production systems in different agro-systems, including irrigated,
rainfed, upland, swamp, marine, coastal and inland water areas. Research
priorities between and within each of the subsectors differ in accordance with
the resource potential of different areas, the main identified constraints to
production, and social objectives. Research would not only aim at enhanced
productivity and stability of production systems, but also at reducing product
losses, adding value through processing, and introducing more efficient
allocation of research resources to ensure that strategic needs are met,
regional resource endowments are utilized efficiently, and new opportunities for
agricultural growth are generated.
D. Research Programs and Performance
2.21     In line with sectoral objectives and strategy, AARD's research
priorities have been, and continue to be, to provide support for expanding food
production, increasing production of export commodities, import substitutes, and
efficiently and sustainably utilizing the country's land and water resources.
2.22     Research on food crops is carried out by six institutes coordinated by
the RCC for Food Crops at Bogor. Past agricultural research has been heavily
oriented to achieving rice self-sufficiency. Since 1981, about 30 improved
varieties have been released for the 7.0 million ha of lowlands. Varieties have
also been produced for the 1.2 million ha under upland rice and for tidal swamp
conditions. Now, rice research is to be maintained at levels required to keep
production increasing in accordance with demands of a population growing at
about 2.2Z per annum. Rice breeding requires a continuous intensive effort to
ensure resistance to new strains of pests and diseases capable of attacking
hitherto resistant varieties. In addition, on-going research continually
evolves better cultural practices of soil management, fertilizer use, fungicide
and insecticide application, crop rotation, planting times, and biological
control, to improve productivity.



- 11 -
2.23     Agricultural research programs for commodities other than rice are at
various stages of development. For secondary crops (corn, soybeans, peanuts,
mungbeans and sweet potato) and horticultural crops, the objective has been to
strengthen research to increase yields, improve the nutritional quality of the
national diet, and promote import substitution, exports, and raw materials for
agro-based industries. After a long period of stagnation, production of corn
and soybeans is starting to rise through yield and area increases. Peanut
production has shown a small increase, but cassava and sweet potato production
have changed very little due to marketing problems. Several improved hybrids
and varieties of corn have been produced, and it is estimated that the average
national yield of 1.8 ton/ha could be easily doubled if improved varieties would
effectively reach farmers. New varieties of soybeans, groundnuts, mungbeans and
cassava have also been produced but are not widely available to farmers. As an
example, soybean demand is rising but production is constrained by availability
of varieties adapted to different soil conditions, soil fertility, and pests and
diseases.
2.24     Horticultural research in Indonesia has received little attention in
relation to the value of horticultural production. In an effort to increase
production of horticultural crops, GOI has now reorganized and is expanding
Horticultural research and development. A new Directorate of Horticulture has
been established in the Ministry of Agriculture and, in addition to the RI for
horticulture at Lembang, which has focussed mainly on highland vegetables, a new
research institute to be devoted to fruits is being developed at Solok.
Research will initially focus on citrus, papaya, mango and banana, and on
production of disease-free planting stock, varietal improvement, crop
production, post-harvest activities and marketing. No other facilities are
being developed, but horticultural research staff and funds are being allocated
to other research institutes/stations, where research to date has concentrated
on citrus, apples, mangoes and grapes, as well as cabbage, potatoes and
tomatoes. Increasingly, research is being directed to reducing post-harvest
losses and to value-added activities.
2.25     Research on industrial crops (coconut, spices, tobacco, fiber crops and
essential oils) is carried out at four research institutes and 31 experimental
farms. Coconut breeding and genetics studies have shown good results in
identifying varieties and hybrids and cultural practices that produce high
yields. Both the AARD RI at Manado and the PTPs are engaged in coconut
research. However, the impact of this research, which started receiving
emphasis in the late 1970s, is not yet fully apparent since coconuts take about
ten years to reach full productive capacity. Research in spices covers varietal
improvement, agronomy and production systems, and disease control. The tobacco
research program has been directed mainly toward varietal purification and
improved agronomic and curing methods, but the productivity of the crop is still
low. Research on cotton is aimed at improving cultural practices, better insect
control and breeding for resistance to major pests. Although the crop has good
prospects in selective areas, yields are generally low and production costs
high. Additional research is needed to examine the viability of more widespread
cotton production, since GOI's objective is to expand the crop as an import
substitute.



.
- 12 -
2.26     Research on estate crops (rubber, oil palm, tea, coffee, cocoa and
sugarcane) is carried out by seven research institutes responsible to the Board
of Research Management for Estate Crops under the chairmanship of the DG of
AARD. Research on rubber production by estates is well advanced, but research
on smallholder rubber is only just beginning to make progress. Oil palm
research has resulted in the release of a high-yielding, short-statured variety.
Local cocoa is being upgraded with high-yielding strains, and integrated pest
control measures are also being developed for cocoa pod moth, the main threat to
yields. Coffee research has concentrated on increasing Robusta yields through
varietal improvement and better cultural practices. Tea research emphasizes
production and quality improvements. In all institutes, emphasis has been on
breeding, with lesser attention on cultural practices, soil fertility,
integrated pest and disease management, and post-harvest technology. Improved
material of some of the crops, such as rubber, is grown extensively throughout
Indonesia and is the most obvious result of past research having reached the
producers, but other aspects of improved technology are also becoming more
widely adopted.
2.27     The RIs for Animal Production and Animal Diseases are located at Ciawi
and Bogor, respectively. Livestock research follows a mainly disciplinary
approach which needs to be broadened to include more interdisciplinary research
projects. The RI for Animal Production is supported by five research stations
which are working on aspects of genetic improvement, production, pasture crops,
feeds, post-harvest handling, and livestock management systems. The RI for
Animal Dis.ease conducts research in virology, bacteriology, toxicology and
microbiology to control livestock diseases. Some notable successes have been
obtained in disease control, viz., anthrax and foot and mouth disease.
Production oriented research on such subjects as the utilization of indigenous
feeds, improved feeding systems, introduction of integrated livestock farming
systems to increase animal production and improve the farm income are needed in
order to raise both quantity and quality of livestock products and to improve
nutrition in accordance with GOI goals.
2.28     Fisheries research is carried out at the RIs of Marine Fisheries,
Freshwater Fisheries and Coastal Aquaculture, under the general coordination of
a RCC for Fisheries and with the support of a number of fisheries research
stations. Research covers resource assessment, breeding and genetics,
culturing, diseases, water quality, nutrition, aquatic environment, fishing
technology, post harvest technology and fisheries socio-economics. In general,
although there is room for improvement, the quality of fisheries research is
good, but research is still being hampered by lack of trained staff and suitable
facilities in marine and freshwater fisheries. Past research results have
contributed to improved exploitation and management of fishery resources,
increased fish production and reduced spoilage, and improved product quality.
2.29     Farming systems research is done by many of the research institutes.
Since many crops are part of the cropping system of various agroclimatic
conditions, the RI for Food Crops, in a collaborative program with IRRI, has
developed cropping systems research involving secondary crops and rice. This is
not yet a major thrust of the Institute's work, but a full-time coordinator for
farming systems, in close consultation with the CSR, CAER and a number of
research institutes, is pulling the various regional activities together. Some
farming systems research is also done by: (a) the RI for Estate and Industrial
Crops; (b) the RI for Animal Production on pasture and forages as an integral
component of a livestock/tree crop system; and (c) the RI for Fresh Water
Fisheries on integrated fish/livestock/crop systems.



- 13 -
2.30     Post-harvest technology research is scattered among several research
institutes. It needs to be coordinated throughout the various agricultural
subsectors by establishing an appropriate networking system. An inter-institute
steering committee has been formed for this purpose. Present research, which is
still at an early stage of development, is mainly concerned with produce
handling, drying, storage, pest and quality control, and conversion of
perishable raw materials into stable product. Although some useful
contributions have been made, particularly in horticulture, industrial and
estate crops and fisheries, value-added research is only now starting to gain
momentum. Similarly, biotechnology, which is mainly concerned with fermentation
processes and tissue culture for propagation of improved plant material, is only
just gaining momentum and needs strengthening.
2.31     Agro-economic research has been highly centralized in CAER and
encompasses micro- and macro-economic studies of farm management, production
costs, marketing, pricing, employment, and interactions with the world economy.
Research has emphasized on- and off-farm rural employment, investment in the
sector, trends in fertilizer and pesticide use, the value and potential of
agricultural exports, and studies of agricultural development policies to
provide policy makers with information on economic aspects influencing national
and sectoral development. Economic researchers have not had much involvement so
far in the planning or economic evaluation of biological research, which is a
weakness in designing priority programs. Micro-economic and interdisciplinary
research involving biological scientists and agro-economists is now being
increasingly carried out at RIs, and CAER is placing more emphasis on macro-
economic analysis. However, a considerably expanded input is required from
agro-economic research at CAER and research center/institute levels, in order to
improve the overall planning and management of the agricultural research system.
Similarly, more interdisciplinary research is needed to solve farm management
and socio-economic problems at the regional and local level. In addition, the
communication of research results, now effected through publications and library
services, periodic meetings and farmer discussion groups, needs to be expanded.
E. Research Funding
2.32     Funding for agricultural research comes from two budgetary sources:
the routine budget and the development budget. In addition, there is a
collaborative budget comprising external technical assistance and project aid
(Annex 1, Table 2). Total funding for research over the last 15 years from all
three sources ( Annex 7, Tables 2(a) and (b)) has been variable and
unpredictable and, in real terms, total funding of US$51.5 million equivalent in
1988/89 was only 20% higher than the total provision of US$42.8 million
equivalent in 1974/75 (constant 1988/89 values) In addition to the variability
and slow growth, total expenditure on agricultural research is low compared to
other countries (0.2% of agricultural GDP as compared to about 0.5X for South
Asia, 1.0% for Africa and more than 2.OZ for North America and Oceania). The
average annual research support provided to individual AARD scientists is also
below that provided to scientists in many other countries, although it is
difficult to draw comparisons because of the great variability that exists.
Total research expenditures, particularly operational funding have declined in
recent years: the portion of routine and development budgets financed by GOI's



- 14 -
own resources declined from Rp 32.7 billion to Rp 18.9 billion during
1984/85-1988/89 (Rp 42.9 billion to Rp 18.9 billion in constant 1988/89 values).
The increase in overall funding has therefore been entirely financed by external
aid funds. During Repelita IV, AARD managed a large number of foreign-aided
projects, representing a flow of aid of more than 60Z of the average AARD
budget.
2.33     The low and variable level of GOI funding, aggravated by recent
budgetary constraints and the high dependency on foreign funds, which also tend
to vary considerably, are matters for concern in relation to the stability and
full integration of the national research system. Observable effects are
totally inadequate levels of operational funding, with consequent
underutilization of the rapidly expanding trained staff and facilities;
inadequate funding of operation and maintenance (O&M) for building and
equipment, leading to rapid deterioration of newly acquired infrastructure;
research projects that are not strictly in line with priority objectives at a
time of severe budget constraints; and inefficiencies and high costs associated
with breaks in funding of long-term research programs. External assistance will
continue to be required to fund many research operations over the next few years
because of GOI budget constraints. However, not only must the total level of
research expenditures be raised, but GOI must substantially increase its own
share of funding and increase O&M expenditures to maintain and manage the
considerable investment already made in research and to provide stability in
research programs.
F. Issues in Agricultural Research and Changing Requirements
2.34     With Bank and other donor support, GOI has built an impressive
"icritical mass" of staff capable of carrying out the comprehensive research
programs required to support development under Indonesia's varied conditions.
As development proceeds, changing economic pressures result in changes in
national and sectoral objectives. Demands on the agricultural research system
will become more exacting, and it will need to be more efficient, flexible and
responsive to sectoral demands. Now that an effective research infrastructure
has been built up, the need is for more effective planning of relevant, focussed
research programs, and more efficient utilization and management of available
research resources.
2.35     The main issues to be addressed in making the research organization
more responsive to Indonesia's needs can be summarized as follows:
(a) deficiencies in systematic planning of research priorities and in managing
research at all levels within AARD, and the need to increase the quality and
efficiency of research and accountability throughout the system; (b) inadequate
provision of operational funds to sustain funding for identified research
priorities and maintenance of facilities and equipment, in a situation where
research assets and staff have grown rapidly but budgetary resources are
declining; (c) imbalances in the location and distribution of, especially,
senior research personnel in relation to perceived research needs
(geographically as well as by discipline) and existing research infrastructure;
(d) lack of sufficiently trained staff in specialized areas, e.g. virology,
post-harvest technology, biotechnology, marketing and socio-economics; (e) lack
of donor coordination in supporting various aspects of the national research
program; (f) inadequate balance between commodity-oriented research programs and



- 15 -
complementing research on location-specific farming systems in different agro-
ecological zones; (g) the need to direct a substantial and growing share of
research resources toward reducing distortions in the support for selected
commodities in certain ecological zones, while maintaining adequate support for
rice research; and (h) the lack of effective research-extension linkages and
inadequate communication with the users of research (farmers, industry, and
policy makers).
2.36     To address these issues, institutional improvements are required to
efficiently plan, program and manage the activities of a vastly expanded AARD.
Despite two reorganizations since its creation in the early 1970s, AARD's
organizational and management structure still has weaknesses which are reflected
in operational inefficiencies and underutilization of qualified and experienced
staff. There is a major concentration of staff in western Java and shortages of
professional staff in other locations. There are too many highly qualified
staff in a "coordinating" capacity while actual research is conducted by less
experienced, lower level staff, with a minimum of supervision and support. With
the recent achievement of rice self-sufficiency, and increased emphasis on
diversification and efficient, sustainable resource use, AARD also has to adjust
its priorities in line with changing national and sectoral objectives and
regional development requirements, which will involve, inter alia, reallocation
of staff to address emerging needs in different areas.
2.37     This implies that, in addition to the more immediate changes to address
short-term problems of internal management and research priorities, AARD should
be planning for more long-term structural change to be implemented over the next
5-10 years. Commodity-oriented research, which predominantly determines the
present AARD organizational structure, should be increasingly complemented by
farming systems research to address regional development and interdisciplinary
problems. A systematic planning mechanism and preparation of a rolling five and
ten-year Research Master Plan (RMP), accompanied by periodic reviews and
rationalization of the national research station network in terms of scope and
mandate, as well as location and numbers of staff and facilities, would fill
present voids, reduce duplication, and make optimum use of scarce research
resources. The present national mandates of most of AARD's RIs need to be
reconsidered to meet regional demands. Commodity-oriented facilities need to be
given broader mandates, and the roles of regional stations and sites specified
to provide the "critical mass" required for effective research and research-
extension linkages within the 10 identified research complexes.
G. Experience under Previous Projects
2.38     Bank support to AARD began in 1975 with the Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (Ln. 1179-IND for US$21.5 million, including US$16.7 million
for research). The project, which began shortly after AARD's creation, was an
important building block in the agency's early development of its national
research capacity. It strengthened production-oriented research programs for
rice, secondary food crops, highland vegetables and rubber through the provision
of buildings and equipment, training and technical assistance. The Project
Completion Report concluded that project objectives had been achieved and that
no significant problems had affected implementation. It concluded that overall
the project was successful in supporting the new institutional system for
research and extension, though it was recognized that the full strengthening of
these systems would take many years and results, measured in terms of economic



- 16 -
benefits, would be difficult to quantify. A number of intangible and tangible
benefits flowed from the project such as: (i) improved capability and increased
coverage of research and extension staff through training, which has laid the
foundation of a professionally competent staff for research and extension;
(ii) production of new improved varieties of crops; and (iii) development and
widespread propagation of new techniques and packages of practices capable of
realizing the full potential of the new improved crop varieties. Production of
rice, at least partly due to research and extension contributions, far exceeded
the forecast made by the appraisal mission.  The development of staff was
recognized as the main contribution of the project, which had been designed as
one phase in the long-term process of building national research capacity.
2.39     Continuing support for research was provided through the National
Agricultural Research Project which started in 1980 (Ln. 1840/Cr. 1014-IND,
US$65 million, closing date 6/30/90). This project was designed to support more
broad-based objectives of Repelita III emphasizing non-rice research, i.e.,
lowland vegetables, livestock, fisheries, forestry, industrial crops and estate
crops other than rubber. The project continued provision for infrastructure,
equipment, post-graduate training, various types of other training, and long-
term and short-term technical assistance. It also formalized research reviews
initiated under NARP I by providing for regular biennial reviews by AARD and
independent specialists (see para. 2.17). Despite budgetary constraints, the
project has progressed according to schedule but difficulties experienced with
operational funding for research have affected project impact. Funding for O&M
is a concern which the proposed project would address.
2.40     Both the above projects successfully contributed to AARD's physical
expansion and strengthened research capabilities, and were to be followed by a
third project with a primary focus on capacity expansion. However, a number of
emerging management constraints (para. 2.35) and lessons learned led GOI and the
Bank to revise the objectives for a follow-up project (para. 1.2). With the
strong emphasis on physical targets in developing facilities and training staff,
insufficient attention had been given to management and planning the research
programs for which those staff and facilities were being provided. The rapid
build-up of infrastructure and staff was not well-synchronized to ensure their
full and efficient use in the shortest possible time. The budgetary provisions
lagged behind the increasing requirements for operation and maintenance of
expanded facilities and equipment, and reliance on external funding led in some
cases, to uncoordinated, opportunistic research efforts which were often more in
line with donor rather than GOI priorities. A growing recognition by GOI of the
urgent need to consolidate and strengthen research planning and management, led
to the decision in 1986 to completely restructure the third National
Agricultural Research Project to focus more directly on building up AARD's
capability to use existing research infrastructure and staff effectively, in
terms of specialization and geographic distribution, in accordance with
recognized priorities and available resources. The proposed ARM project is
designed to address these issues directly.
2.41     AARD has also received Bank support for specific research components
included in four other projects: (a) the Transmigration III Project
(Ln. 2248-IND), (b) the Second Swamp Reclamation Project (Ln. 2431-IND), (c) the
Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project (Ln. 2474-IND), and (d) the Nusa
Tenggara Agricultural Support Project (Ln. 2638-IND). In addition, the Bank is
assisting the Ministry of Forestry in its efforts to strengthen forestry
research under the Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project (Ln.
2930-IND).



- 17 -
H. GOI's Future Research Policy and Strategy
2.42     A Policy Statement for Agricultural Research with a detailed Action
Program (Annex 2) provides the policy framework and strategy for sustaining and
further developing the research effort in the short- and medium-term. It charts
the course for broad institutional development and reform to be introduced
during a longer-term program, and reinforces the following policies:
(a) Criteria setting mechanism. To ensure that research programs and
projects are planned in accordance with criteria established for
prioritizing research expenditures, GOI will implement a number of
specific actions in the short to medium term to improve present
planning and management of research.
(b) Rolling plan for research management and administration. Current
planning procedures at all levels, which are not always consistent
or adequate, will be strengthened by additional resources for
establishing short- and long-range rolling plans for AARD's
operations and for determining staffing and budgetary resources for
priority research needs of the agricultural sector.
(c) Improved programming and budgeting. Other proposed management
actions are aimed at introducing improved and decentralized
programming, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation, accounting and
financial controls, and improved coordination of donor financing.
2.43     AARD, supported by technical assistance under the National Agricultural
Research (NAR II) project, is already undertaking a first iteration of a
research master plan with emphasis on establishing a continuous planning
mechanism. GOI is currently examining problems of inadequate funding of
infrastructure O&M and recurrent staff costs, as well as operational
expenditures for research and the consequent underutilization of valuable
scientific personnel and infrastructure. A Task Force on Recurrent Funding,
with representatives from Agriculture, BAPPENAS and Finance, has made initial
recommendations on sources of O&M funding for research, and a longer-term study
on O&M requirements and funding procedures for agricultural research is in
progress. AARD has also started to develop a management information system to
unite all the major research centers/ institutes with the Secretariat, and has
produced a first attempt at a revised staff development plan.
I. Bank Role and Subsector Strategy
2.44     The Bank's main short- to medium-term objectives in the agricultural
sector are to assist GOI in restoring the momentum of growth and improving the
efficiency of resource use through reforms in the overall policy framework,
developing new sources of growth and greater diversification, and promoting
greater efficiency in public resource use and institutional performance. In
addition to emphasis on growth and efficiency, Bank assistance would focus on
poverty alleviation and sustainability of development. In the two previous
research projects, the Bank assisted GOI in expanding its trained staff,
research infrastructure and capacity, and in strengthening its research
activities to support the broad objectives of rice self-sufficiency and
diversification of the agricultural research base. The Bank's present strategy,
based on broad agriculture sector needs and identified priorities, is to assist
GOI to advance its research and development strategy in agriculture to address



- 18 -
the emerging needs in the foreseeable future, especially in relation to
increasing diversification and competitiveness of Indonesian agriculture, and
maintaining the progress already achieved in the last two decades. In addition,
support is needed to fully and effectively utilize trained personnel and
expanded facilities by improving planning and management of resources, by
widening research participation (e.g. universities), and by mobilizing more
efficient O&M for research infrastructure and operational funding for research
priorities. Bank-supported programs in agricultural and rural development and
transmigration also depend upon the generation and dissemination of appropriate
technological packages tailored to Indonesia's varied agroclimatic zones.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.1      Investment in agricultural research to date has been directed toward
addressing the major challenges facing Indonesia in attaining food self-
sufficiency. As a result, rice yields have almost doubled over the last two
decades, and management of lowland and irrigated rice has received significant
attention. The challenges facing agriculture in the next phase include:
improving the production of secondary crops for diversification, especially
legumes, oil seeds, and fibers; increasing the competitiveness of agricultural
export products (horticulture, rubber, palm oil, livestock, fish, etc.) by
employing efficient technology to reduce the cost of production; and expanding
research skills to address specific problems facing farming systems in major
ecological zones. These challenges can be met by better utilization of existing
research capabilities and modernization and expansion of several facilities to
meet the emerging demands among the various RCCs and the RIs of AARD. The
increasing complexity of managing the vast research network in the country
requires special support to enable AARD to provide adequate direction and
supervision of research efforts. After assisting GOI initially in expanding its
trained staff, research infrastructure and capacity, Bank assistance is now
needed in strengthening GOI's efforts to fully and effectively utilize the
expanded facilities and personnel by improved planning and management of
resources and more efficient research in support of continued agricultural
growth. Bank involvement would ensure the effectiveness of previous
investments, consolidate gains made under previous projects and support
continued efforts at improving production, yields and economic benefits in the
agricultural sector through a longer-term program of institutional change. GOI
and other aid donors recognize that the Bank, with its long-term involvement
with agricultural research in Indonesia, can play a constructive role in
assisting GOI to improve the coordination of donor support in this subsector.
B. Project Objectives and Design
3.2      The major objective of the project would be to increase the efficiency
and relevance of the agricultural research system for continued, sustained
agricultural development. The project would have a two-pronged approach: (a)
operationally supporting critical elements of the on-going research programs,
particularly by strengthening research in the relatively neglected fields of
socio-economics, livestock, fisheries, post-harvest technology and biotechnology
in line with established GOI research priorities; and (b) introducing
institutional and management reforms to improve research. Specifically, the
project would (a) improve the data base and planning mechanism, including



- 19 -
preparation of a rolling national agricultural RMP, for improved research
programming; (b) reform research management by establishing a network of
management information systems (MIS), and by introducing improved accounting
practices and regular monitoring and external research reviews; (c) improve
integration of research through fostering AARD links with universities and
private enterprise, and facilitating rapid technology diffusion; (d) ensure
adequate research financing by providing a minimum targeted growth in
operational expenditures; and (e) improve resource allocation for research in
accordance with the Agricultural Research Policy Statement (para. 3.4 and
Annex 2).
C. Project Description
3.3      The project would be implemented over a five year period as the first
phase of a long-term development program, and would strengthen AARD's management
at various levels (Secretariat, research centers and institutes) through
specific actions to improve planning, programming, monitoring, evaluation,
information, and financial and economic analysis skills. It would also increase
efficiency and relevance of the ongoing national research program by providing
operational support. Specific components to be financed under the project
include the following:
(a) Improving Research Management and Organization
(i)   Re-establish the Center for Agricultural Research Programming
(CARP) to strengthen and direct the national agricultural
research program, formulate overall research plans, and establish
a methodology and procedures to reinforce accountability and
improve planning at the research center/institute level. More
specifically, CARP will prepare and monitor a rolling RMP to
direct agricultural research investments and to indicate research
priorities and identify facilities and staffing needs on a
national scale;
(ii) Support AARD to implement management reforms and increase the
relevance and efficiency of the research program as outlined in
the Policy Statement and Action Program;
(iii) Strengthen AARD's Secretariat and research centers/institutes to
manage research programs, including the development of a MIS, a
staff development program, and improvements in financial
management, accounting and reporting; and
(iv) Provide training and technical assistance in research management
and administration and in selected disciplines and
specializations required for conducting agreed priority research
programs.
(b) Strengthening Research-Extension Linkages
Strengthen AARD's on-going programs in training and communication
in order to establish a systematic program of support, including
training, for research information communication and
dissemination, and research-extension linkages, through seminars,
workshops, collaborative on-farm research trials, and linkages
with extension services.



- 20 -
(c) Providing Overall Support to the National Research System
(i)   Generally support present national research efforts by providing
adequate operating funds during the project period;
(ii) Establish a research fund to be managed by AARD for supporting
collaborative agricultural research carried out by universities;
(iii) Establish and expand selected laboratories and programs for post-
harvest technology research and biotechnology, and expanding
research on agro-economics and on agricultural diversification at
the regional level; and
(iv) Construct facilities for the Freshwater Fisheries Research
Institute at Sukamandi, for the Marine Fisheries Institute at the
Jakarta fishery port complex, for the AARD Secretariat at
Jakarta, and for the CAER at Bogor.
3.4      The underpinnings for the proposed project would be provided by:
(i) an Agricultural Research Policy Statement (Annex 2) defining GOI's policy
objectives and approach, and (ii) an Action Program outlining a schedule of
measures to be taken during the project period to initiate intermediate-term
reforms and improvements in support of the policy objectives. The project would
be implemented in accordance with this Policy Statement and Action Program as
reviewed and agreed with the Bank. Some of the broad actions (see para. 5.2) to
be taken over the project period are: (a) a decision on priorities for resource
allocation for research in accordance with the Policy Statement, to ensure close
links between sector goals and research program resource allocations;
(b) improving the data base to improve research planning; (c) reforming research
management by establishing a network of MIS, introduction of improved accounting
practices, and regular external research reviews; (d) improving integration of
research through fostering AARD links with universities, market awareness, and
rapid technology diffusion; and (e) ensuring adequate research financing by
providing a minimum five-year targeted growth in operational expenditures of 5%
per annum in real terms.
D. Detailed Features
Improving Research Management and Organization (US$16.14 million)
3.5      Center for Agricultural Research Programming (CARP).  The project would
provide for establishment of the CARP within AARD. Functionally, CARP was
established on August 12, 1988, with the appointment of a coordinator and ten
senior staff. This is expected to be formalized through issuance of a
Presidential Decree. The broad mandate of CARP would be the management of
national level programming and budgeting, and of external and internal
collaboration for agricultural research and development. To implement these
tasks, CARP would have the following functions: (a) collection, processing and
evaluation of data and statistical information on agricultural research and
development; (b) program and project formulation, including budgeting for
agricultural research; (c) evaluation and monitoring of program and project
implementation; (d) evaluation of benefits and analysis of research potential to
assist in establishing future research priorities; (e) administration of



- 21 -
external and internal collaboration for agricultural research and development;
and (f) development and expansion of management information and control
throughout AARD. CARP would consist of six divisions (Chart 4) as follows:
(i) Data and Statistics; (ii) Program Planning; (iii) Budgeting; (iv) Monitoring
and Evaluation; (v) Computerization (including MIS); and (vi) Research
Collaboration. A task force on organization is currently engaged in developing
operational procedures for CARP and will submit recommendations by December 15,
1988 on precise timetables and activities, and further steps in the development
of monitoring and comprehensive research programming. The project would provide
funds for CARP's operation and for office equipment, vehicles, technical
assistance and training (Annex 5, Table 1).
3.6      CARP's major responsibility would be the development of a continuous
planning mechanism and the rolling RMP. Work on an initial RMP was begun in
July 1988 with senior AARD staff and four consultants (supported under NAR II
project) and submitted to the Bank for review in December 1988. Building on
this initial effort, the project would support the introduction of a systematic
planning process resulting in a rolling RMP to rationalize agricultural research
investments nationally. The RMP currently being prepared would be the first
iteration of a research strategy, priorities and operational plan based on State
Guidelines, Repelita V and GOI's Policy Statement on research, with emphasis on
strategic commodities, regional research needs and research/extension linkages.
This draft RMP is the first step in a continuous planning and management
process to be implemented and refined during the project. The RMP provides
guidelines for research management, institute improved planning procedures,
including more efficient use of existing staff and facilities, and identifies
further staff training needs. Staff designated for CARP were involved in the
initial RMP preparation with the assistance of consultants, and will continue
RMP refinement during the project period.
3.7      Management Information System (MIS).  A MIS would be established under
the project at Secretariat and research center/institute level to provide for
more rapid information flows required to improve the management and control of
AARD's extensive research program, personnel and facilities, and to provide for
accountability. Work on developing and installing a MIS is already in progress
with assistance of ISNAR and USAID support which will end during the first year
of the project. The establishment of a working MIS would strengthen planning,
programming, budgeting and implementation, and would aid the introduction of
systematic research monitoring and evaluation. The project would provide funds
to establish and operate the MIS (Annex 5, Table 2).
3.8      Improving Financial Management, Accounting and Reporting.  The project
would provide for technical assistance (financial and management expertise) to
assist AARD in introducing necessary changes to modernize its accounting and
reporting system in coordination with the MIS and for the computerization of the
program.  The modernization program would include, inter  alia, the following:
(a) introduction of double entry bookkeeping; (b) strengthening financial
controls and improving agency accounting by decentralizing basic agency
accounts; (c) classifying expenditures in agency accounts by program/project
category; (d) introducing balance sheet accounting by introducing the notion of
government equity and distinguishing capital items in government revenue and



- 22 -
expenditure accounts; and (e) establishing a uniform chart of accounts. The
above would be in close association with the Bank-supported Accountancy
Development Project (IBRD Loan No. 2940-IND), which has been designed to
modernize the accounting system in GOI, with the Ministry of Agriculture as one
of the four ministries initially selected to implement these changes.
3.9      Training.  Training would be an essential component in staff
development. The project would provide funds for training in research
management and financial control procedures and in selected disciplines and
specializations that need strengthening for agreed priority research programs,
the details of which were reviewed at negotiations (Annex 5, Table 6). After a
careful review of existing trained personnel and various staff already under
training, the agreed training program for funding under the proposed project has
been designed mainly to fill present gaps in required disciplines, especially in
research stations outside Bogor, for specific skill development and for
management. This would include: (a) about 34 fellowships at PhD level (in
socioeconomics, biotechnology in both plant and animal sciences, post-harvest
processing, communications, climatology, fisheries, computer science, ecology,
and water management); (b) about 60 fellowships at MSc level in important
priority fields (economics, post-harvest, etc.); and (c) about 3,000 staff-
months for short course (local and overseas) training for specific skill
development for scientific and support staff (Annex 5, Table 3). Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the training program would be implemented
according to a schedule acceptable by the Bank (para. 7.2 (c)).
3.10     Technical Assistance.  The project would provide funds for a total of
about seven staff-years of international technical assistance (five years for
research management and two years for planning). The research management
specialist would be responsible for assisting in allocation, review and revision
of research priorities and generally improving research management procedures,
while the programming specialist would be responsible for assisting in
implementing effective research planning in accordance with established
priorities. The broad terms of reference for these two specialists are
presented in Annex 4. In addition, the project would provide funds for ten
staff-years of local expertise in financial management to assist in improving
financial management procedures and in civil works engineering in planning
physical facilities at AARD and at RIs. Short-term technical assistance, to be
specified as and when required, totaling about 175 staff-months would be
provided for assistance in various scientific disciplines (Annex 5, Table 3). A
schedule for inviting proposals, evaluation, negotiations and the appointment of
consultants in research management, planning, financial management and
engineering during the early part of the first project year were agreed during
negotiations. AARD has prepared detailed terms of reference for consultants, a
draft letter of invitation, and a proposed short list of consultants.
Strengthening Research-Extension Linkages (US$6.76 million)
3.11     Increased yields and efficiency of production in agriculture depend on
both the generation of improved technology and its successful application in the
field. Under the project, the existing mechanisms for research-extension
linkages would be improved by clarifying responsibilities of the various
agencies involved in conducting adaptive trials and implementing extension
programs at the local level. AARD would amplify the regional mandates of its



- 23 -
institutes based on the ten regional complexes. To assist in forging the
research-extension linkages and to provide a satisfactory flow of information
among research workers, and from research to policy makers, extension workers
and farmers, the project would strengthen on-going efforts to produce extension
and training materials based on locally-relevant information generated by AARD
scientists. The production of educational and extension publications would be
linked to AARD's joint programs with the universities and other research and
training institutes. Funds would be provided for dissemination of research
results through: (a) communication, audio-visual and publishing equipment at
the NLAS; (b) publication of training manuals for research personnel in crops,
livestock, and production management, and of journals and bulletins (at present
partially-funded from other sources); (c) organizing annual farmer-oriented
field days at research institutes and research stations to provide information
on typical farming systems in each province (rather than concentrating more
narrowly on specific commodities or problem areas); (d) expansion of present on-
farm trials conducted by research institutes, and the collection and analysis of
data and dissemination of results from these sites; (e) improved utilization of
on-farm research resulting in technical meetings between researchers and
Extension Subject Matter Specialists at each of the 10 research complexes;
(f) limited postgraduate training in communication and library services for
staff at the NLAS and at the research centers/institutes, and short-term
training in communication skills, group dynamics, and farmers' organizations;
and (g) improved analysis of feedback information from joint research and
extension reviews of recommended technologies, and incorporation of the findings
into future research and extension programs (Annex 5, Table 4).
Supporting the Overall National Research System (US$27.52 million)
3.12     Other Investment and Research Operating Costs.  One of the most
important constraints in the conduct of research has been the lack of operating
funds. The project would provide financing for incremental operating expenses
over and above those covered by other external donors during the project period
(Annex 5, Table 5). These funds would only cover actual research operating
expenses, not O&M of existing facilities. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that: (a) GOI would provide funds for research O&M based on
present standards as follows: (i) building maintenance - Rp 3,000 per m2; and
(ii) vehicle operations and maintenance - Rp 1.5 million p.a. per vehicle;
(b) research priorities and work programs would be reviewed with the Bank by
October 31 each year; (c) an inventory of research assets by type and by
institute would be completed during the first two years of the project to
provide a firm basis for determining actual O&M requirements; (d) formulation of
improved O&M standards would be completed during the third project year and
implemented as from the beginning of the fourth year; and (e) at least a 5Z
annual increase in funding for research in real terms would be achieved over the
five-year period 1989/90-1993/94 (para. 7.1 (b)).
3.13     Collaboration with other Research Institutions.  The project would
support a contractual research grant scheme under which eligible research
proposals from Indonesian Universities would be financed. Criteria for the
selection of proposals already exist under a USAID-sponsored scheme but would be
adapted to reflect the priorities for research established under the proposed
project and the Bank's involvement in the scheme. The aim would be to



- 24 -
liberalize some conditions of participation, outline eligible expenditures, and
direct research towards studies conducted in collaboration with AARD institutes
and the International Agricultural Research Centers (Annex 5, Table 6). The
detailed guidelines for this scheme are presented in Annex 3.
3.14     Construction of Additional Facilities.  Whereas the major goal of the
proposed project is the improved management and more efficient utilization of
existing facilities and staff, it is recognized that a limited amount of
construction would still be needed at this stage to meet priority research
requirements over the next five years. The project would provide funds for a
small number of construction and/or rehabilitation items regarded as high
priority by GOI, including facilities for research in freshwater and marine
fisheries, post-harvest technology and biotechnology, agro-economic research,
and the AARD Secretariat (Annex 5, Table 7). These civil works are justified on
the basis of providing balance and continuity in the ongoing development of the
research infrastructure, within the context of perceived priorities and program
direction in the short to medium term, and would thus be closely related to the
overall improvement of management of the research system (see paras. 3.15-3.18
below). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that adequate O&M funds would
be made available for new facilities constructed under the project.
3.15     Strengthening Agro-economic Research.  The increasing importance of
economic analysis of prevailing farming systems as well as economic evaluation
of research results requires that special attention and support be given to
CAER. CAER, presently housed in inappropriate and temporary quarters, would be
provided funds to build adequate facilities and to procure additional equipment
and vehicles to satisfactorily carry out its functions. Additional support
would also be provided to strengthen the agro-economic research program in the
RIs. The project would include funds for seminars, workshops and local training
as well as for degree and non-degree training in specialized socio-economic
subjects, and special skills development for professional and support staff
(Annex 5, Table 8). Attention would be given to the inclusion of social
scientists in appropriate research units to focus on local farming strategies
and social issues. Operational funding for micro-economic and collaborative
research at the RIs would be increased under the project.
3.16     Biotechnology.  The potential benefits from biotechnology research for
agricultural production are well recognized. With the assistance of the
Japanese Government, AARD has constructed facilities for the use of
biotechnology in food crops research at Bogor, though the work program for this
facility has not yet been finalized. Further Japanese assistance is expected to
satisfy the needs of the major food crops for innovative biotechnological
approaches. The proposed project would strengthen the existing tissue culture
facility for the production of estate crop planting material, coffee, coconut,
oil palm, vanilla, and also the program on post-harvest fermentation technology
at the Estate Crops Research Institute at Bogor. Funds would be provided for
extensions to the tissue culture laboratory and provision of additional
furniture, vehicles, laboratory equipment, research materials, operating
expenses and training (Annex 5, Table 9), to facilitate the rapid production of
clonal planting material through the use of cell and tissue culture techniques.
Research on microbial and enzymatic aspects of fermentation would improve the
quality of products from estates and would also address problems in utilization
of agricultural waste.



- 25 -
3.17     Establishment of a Network of Post-Harvest Laboratories.  Increased
investment in the development of post-harvest technology is in accordance with
GOI's policies for export promotion and import substitution. The problems of
post-harvest losses, limited market opportunities and variable quality of
produce, together with opportunities for increased value added would be tackled
under the project through appropriate post-harvest research programs. Primary
handling (harvesting, threshing, handling, preservation by drying or cooling,
sorting, grading, storage, transportation and packaging) would be carried out in
research centers/institutes throughout the country, and would be complemented by
strengthening existing groups working on secondary processing in food crops,
horticultural crops, livestock and fisheries. The project would provide funds
for strengthening on-going research on primary post-harvest research through
commodity research programs at the RI level (and in the case of marine
fisheries, by including facilities for this work in the new buildings). Funds
would also be provided for the rehabilitation and minor extension of the post-
harvest facilities for horticulture and equipment for post-harvest pathology,
physiology and food crops research (Annex 5, Table 10). Such research would be
carried out through a network system, coordinated by the existing Steering
Committee (para. 2.32) directly responsible to the Director of AARD.
3.18     Fisheries Research and Development.  GOI is placing high priority on
the development of marine, coastal and inland fisheries for increasing
production for export markets and for import substitution. In freshwater
fisheries, particular attention would be given to fish breeding and improvement
of species as part of the integrated production program. Marine fisheries have
been given high priority in terms of Repelita V goals which foresee expanded
activities. Apart from the Research Institute of Coastal Aquaculture (RICA),
which is located in new facilities in Maros, present research facilities are
inadequate to carry out the required research, particularly in fish breeding and
genetics for aquaculture. The project would finance the construction of new
facilities for the Research Institute of Marine Fisheries (RIMF) at the Jakarta
Fishery Port Complex, and facilities for freshwater fisheries at Sukamandi. The
proposed site would provide sufficient space to allow further expansion of the
Research Institute for Freshwater Fisheries (RIFF). The proposed location of
RIMF in the Jakarta Fishing Port Complex would bring the institute in closer
contact with all aspects of marine fisheries and would facilitate work on
primary post-harvest problems, in addition to strengthening the existing post-
harvest fish technology at the Slipi Station. The project would also provide
support for program development, training and operational expenses to increase
the relevance and impact on fisheries research (Annex 5, Tables 11-13).
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.1      Total project cost is estimated at Rp 83.7 billion (US$50.4 million),
of which Rp 1.4 billion (US$0.8 million) would be in duties and taxes and
Rp 21.1 billion (US$12.8 million) in foreign exchange. Civil works estimates
are derived from costs of projects under execution or planned. Equipment and
vehicle costs are based on recent price quotations from suppliers, cross-checked
with prices of comparable units recently procured. Consultants' base costs
(professional fees, overheads, travel and allowances) have been estimated on the
basis of recent consultancy contracts in Indonesia. The cost estimate, which is



- 26 -
based on September 1988 prices, includes physical contingencies of 10% on civil
works and 5Z on other costs, and price contingencies based on estimated local
inflation of 5% in 1989 and 6% per annum thereafter, and estimated foreign
inflation of 5.3% in 1989 and 4.1% per annum for subsequent years. The
estimated cost by project component is summarized in Table 4.1 below:
Table 4.1
Project Cost Summary
% Total
(Rupiahs Billion)     (USSmillion       Foreign    Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign To7T  Exchange   Costs
A. Center for Agricultural Research
Programming                      3.8   0.3   3.9    2.1   0.2   2.3        9         6
B. Center for Agricultural Economics   1.6   0.4   1.9    1.0   0.2   1.2    17           3
C. Estate Crops Biotechnology        0.7   0.4   1.1    0.4   0.2   0.6    33             1
D. Food Crops Post Harvest Technology  0.2   -    0.2    0.2   -       0.2      -         -
E. Inland Fisheries                  3.4   1.3   4.7    2.1   0.8   2.9    28             7
F. Marine Fisheries                  2.6   0.9   3.6    1.6   0.6   2.1    24             5
G. Coastal Aquaculture               0.7   0.1   0.8    0.4   0.1   0.6    20             1
H. Management Information System     1.4   1.3   2.7    0.9   0.7   1.6    44             4
I. Technical Assistance and Training   7.8   8.5  16.1    4.6   6.1   9.7    53          23
J. Research Extension Linkages       7.7   1.2   8.9    4.6   0.7   5.3    13            13
K. Research Fund                     2.6   0.8   3.3    1.6   0.5   2.0    26             5
L. Other Investment and Research
Operating Costs                 18.9   3.0  21.9   11.2   2.0  13.2    Is           32
Total BASELINE COSTS                50.8  18.2  69.0   30.6  11.0  41.6    26           100
Physical Contingencies             2.7     i .   37     l .      e    .2     2
Price Contingencies                9.1   1.9  11.0    5.4   1.2   6.6    18           1l
Total PROJECT COSTS                 62.6  21.1  83.7   37.6  12.8  50.4    26           121
B. Financing
4.2       The proposed Bank loan of US$35.3 million would finance 70% of total
project costs. The loan would finance 76% of foreign costs and about 68% of
local costs, and will be at the standard variable interest rate for 20 years
including a five-year grace period. The Government of Japan is expected to
provide US$3.4 million equivalent of grant funds for technical assistance,
bringing total external financing to US$38.7 million or 77% of project costs,
covering 98% of foreign exchange costs and 70% of local costs.



- 27 -
4.3      GOI would finance the remaining project costs of US$11.7 million from
its routine and development budgets (or a net contribution of US$10.9 million
after duties and taxes). The Bank would finance part of incremental research
operational costs on a declining basis. Over the project implementation period,
GOI would meet a progressively larger share of incremental operational
expenditures, increasing from 25% in project year 1 to 45% in project year 5,
and to 80Z in eight years after the start of project implementation. This
gradual increase in GOI's share over an eight-year period is considered
reasonable since the project is the first phase of a longer-term institutional
reform program covering at least 10-15 years. Moreover, given the quantum
increase of nearly 100% (in real terms) in annual operational expenditures by
the end of the five-year project implementation period compared with GOI's
actual budget allocation in 1988/89, it would be appropriate to stretch out
GOI's expected contributions over a longer period in the light of likely
continuing severe constraints on budgetary resources. Thus the contribution
toward incremental operating costs from GOI would amount to US$10.3 million over
the five-year project period. The financing plan for the project is set out in
Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Total          GOI           IBRD           Japan
Civil works                 5.6            0.6            5.0
Vehicles                     0.5           0.5            -
Equipment/furniture
/Journals                4.1            0.3            3.8            -
Technical Assistance        3.4            -              -              3.4
Foreign training            3.1            -              3.1            -
Local training              5.6            -              5.6            -
Research Fund               1.7            -              1.7            -
Incremental Operating
Costs                      26.4           10.3           16.1            -
TOTAL                    50.4           11.7a/         35.3            3.4
Z                   100.0           23.2           70.0            6.8
a/   Including taxes and duties estimated at US$0.8 million.
4.4      Estimates for incremental research operation costs have been calculated
utilizing estimated non-incremental costs for the fiscal year 1988/89 as a base
year to which a factor has been applied (based on previous years' annual growth
patterns). Incremental O&M costs have been estimated for all AARD locations,
research coordinating centers and institutes. In later years of the project,
the finally agreed research program may concentrate on fewer priority areas so
that reformulation of project costs between institutes may become necessary. It
is not anticipated that such a reformulation would involve an increase in
overall project costs.



- 28 -
Subsector Financing Plan
4.5      GOI has made substantial investments in research facilities.  During
the four-year period 1984/85 - 1987/88 alone, it is estimated that an amount of
US$120 million in construction was completed. The average annual cost over the
next five years for operating and maintaining the present research facilities
(routine budget) is estimated to be in the order of Rp 19.3 billion (US$11.6
million). In addition, on a similar basis, the average annual cost of ongoing
project administration, research operations and research result dissemination is
estimated at Rp 21.4 billion (US$12.9 million) per annum. The estimated non-
incremental costs required to be funded (Annex 7, Table 3) range from
Rp 36.5 billion in 1989/90 to Rp 45.2 billion in 1993/94, or Rp 203.5 billion
(US$122.5 million) over the five-year project period. In view of budgetary
constraints, stable funding for non-incremental expenditures is required for
AARD's on-going activities. A comprehensive financing plan indicating the means
by which the non-incremental costs would be financed during the five-year
project period has been provided by GOI.



- 29 -
C. Procurement.
4.6      The proposed procurement arrangements are presented in Table 4.3 below:
Table 4.3
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million) 1/
Procurement Method
ICB     LCB        Other      NA        Total
Civil works                        -        5.6         -        -           5.6
(5.0)                            (5.0)
Vehicles                           -        -           0.5      -           0.5
Equipment                          2.4      -           0.6      -           3.0
(2.3)               (0.5)                (2.8)
Furniture                          -        -           0.6      -           0.6
-         (0.5)                 (0.5)
Journals                           -        -           0.5      -           0.5
(0.5)                (0.5)
Technical assistance               -        -           3.4      -           3.4
Foreign training                   -        -           -        3.1         3.1
(3.1)      (3.1)
Local training                     -        -           -        5.6         5.6
(5.6)      (5.6)
Research fund                      -        -           -        1.7         1.7
(1.7)      (1.7)
Incremental operating costs        -        -           -       26.4        26.4
including materials, labor,                                  (16.1)      (16.1)
travel and incidental costs
TOTAL                         2.4     5.6         5.6      36.8        50.4
(2.3)   (5.0)       (1.5)   (26.5)      (35.3)
1/       Costs are inclusive of contingencies, duties and taxes.  Figures in
parentheses indicate expected disbursements from the proposed Bank
loan.
4.7      Civil Works (US$5.6 million).  These consist of a number of office and
laboratory buildings and some fish ponds and tanks spread over approximately
four different locations and to be constructed gradually over the five-year
project period. These works will be procured following Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures in which foreign contractors would be permitted to
participate. LCB procedures are justified because these works are small and
scattered in nature, only one exceeding $1.0 million. While works to be
implemented at any one location over a period of three years will be packaged
together, this will still result in contract sizes of less than $2.0 million
each.
4.8      Vehicles (US$0.5 million).  Following GOI regulations, vehicle
importation is not permitted, and the project will provide locally assembled
vehicles. Because of reserved procurement, these vehicles will not be financed
by the Bank.



- 30 -
4.9      Computers, Farm Equipment, Laboratory Equipment (US$3.0 million).  Most
scientific office and farm equipment will be procured following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. In bid
comparison, local manufacturers would be allowed a 15% margin of preference or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Small amounts of equipment
(not exceeding $600,000 in total) will be procured by competitive shopping.
4.10     Furniture (US$0.6 million).  In view of the small value and difficulty
in transporting over distances, furniture will be procured near the locations of
ultimate use, utilizing local shopping with three bids.
4.11     Technical Assistance (US$3.4 million).  Consultancy services for
specialized technical assistance, would be procured internationally in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.12     Research Journals (US$0.5 million) would be procured locally and
internationally by subscription.
4.13     Other (US$36.8 million).  Foreign and local training (US$8.7 million)
will be at institutes acceptable to the Bank. The remaining costs are for the
research grant scheme (US$1.7 million) and for incremental operating costs
associated with research (US$26.4 million).
4.14     Review of Procurement.  Civil works, equipment and furniture would be
procured by the AARD Secretariat, using contract documents acceptable to the
Bank. Internal control of overall procurement is exercised by the AARD
Secretariat. The procurement controls appear to be operating satisfactorily.
4.15     ICB would be used mainly for equipment contracts which would be grouped
into convenient packages of about $200,000 or more. On this basis it is
estimated that computers (including software), farm equipment, and 75Z of the
value of scientific equipment could be grouped in up to 10 packages valued at
$2.4 million and representing approximately 80% of the total value of equipment
procured (approximately US$3.0 million excluding vehicles). The Bank would
review all ICB equipment contracts prior to tendering and award.
4.16     LCB procedures would be used for civil works (US$5.6 million). The Bank
would review the three civil works contracts exceeding $500,000 (estimated value
$4.2 million or 80% of total civil works) prior to tendering and award, whilst
the remaining four civil works contracts would be reviewed on a post award
basis. Equipment not procured by ICB would be procured by competitive shopping
with at least three price quotations.
4.17     Technical assistance, training and research contracts would be reviewed
by the Bank prior to contract award. The civil works, equipment and furniture
procurement that are subject to Bank review amount to approximately $7.2 million
or 80% of the total value of such items to be procured.
D. Disbursements
4.18     Disbursements under the Bank loan are expected to be completed by 1995,
about 6 years after Board Presentation (Annex 8, Table 1). Typical disbursement
periods for previous research projects have been longer than this (8-9 years)
mainly because of the need to keep the loans open to complete long-term degree



- 31 -
training. A six-year disbursement for the proposed loan is considered
reasonable because of the high level of financing for annual operational costs
and technical assistance (to be engaged from the start of project
implementation), and the much reduced funding for construction and long-term
training. The Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 91Z of expenditure on civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported equipment, 90% of
local expenditures (ex-factory prices) for locally manufactured
equipment and furniture, and 65% of locally procured off-the-shelf
items;
(c) 100Z of expenditure on research journals, and local and foreign
training;
(d) 100% of research fund expenditure; and
(e) incremental research operating costs (including office supplies,
materials, labor, honoraria, travel, vehicle operation and incidental
costs) for the life of the loan based on the following declining
percentages: 75% in 1989/90, 70% in 1990/91, 65% in 1991/92, 60% in
1992/93, and 55% in 1993/94.
4.19     The proposed allocation of the Bank loan is shown in Table 4.4.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for
equipment, journals, training, research grants and recurrent costs less than
US$50,000 equivalent. For other components, disbursement would be made on the
basis of standard documentation. SOE would be prepared by AARD and detailed
documentation would be maintained at AARD headquarters in Jakarta. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that these SOEs would be audited and that
supporting documentation would be made available to the Bank for inspection
during supervision.
4.20     To facilitate disbursement administration, loan withdrawal applications
would be aggregated as far as possible and would not be for less than US$60,000
equivalent for reimbursements and US$20,000 equivalent for direct payments. In
addition, a Special Account (SA) would be set up in Bank Indonesia (BI) with an
initial deposit from the loan of US$500,000. Following GOI policy the proposed
SA would be for local currency payments only. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that GOI would set up an SA in BI for disbursements from the proceeds
of the Bank loan, following procedures and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.21     Separate project accounts clearly indicating the various sources of
monies received (including revenues generated at research locations) and monies
expended, by functional categories for the respective project components, will
be maintained by AARD. Accounting procedures presently utilized by AARD are
expected to change during the project period with the improvements being
introduced by GOI under the Accountancy Development Project (Loan No. 2940-IND)
which include inter alia, introduction of a uniform chart of accounts, double
entry accounting, and balance sheet accounting. This should facilitate improved



- 32 -
management reporting on research activities by institute, and improved internal
controls.
4.22     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that unaudited project
accounts including consolidated balance sheets and receipts and expenditure
statements and SOEs will be furnished to the Bank whenever these are sent to the
independent auditor, and the audit reports made available to the Bank within
nine months of the fiscal year end. The audit report would include a separate
auditors' opinion on SOE, verifying that the related expenditures were made. for
the agreed purposes of the project.
F. Preparation Status and Implementation Schedule
4.23     Detailed designs for the buildings for the AARD Secretariat and the
Institute of Marine Fisheries would be submitted to the Bank in final form by
March 1, 1989. Master plans and preliminary designs for these facilities have
been completed. Construction of these buildings would start in the first year
of the project and be completed in year two. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that adequate O&M funds would be made available for these new
facilities. Out of a total of 43 vehicles to be procured, 8 vehicles would be
procured in Year 1, 15 in Year 2, 8, 7 and 5 in Years 3, 4 and 5, respectively.
Equipment and furniture would be procured during the first 3 years of the
project. 'Foreign and local training would be spread throughout the project
period. Technical assistance in research planning and management would be
engaged at the start of the project, with additional short-term technical
assistance as and when required throughout the project period. Implementation
Schedules (including necessary procurement actions) are given in Annex 9.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
5.1      The project is designed to be implemented with a degree of flexibility
because of its high content of institutional building and operational support.
A schedule of initial actions for management reform and establishment of
research priorities within the framework of the Policy Statement and Action
Program has been identified, but activities to be implemented later in the
project are less certain and, to an extent, depend on the results of prior
actions.
5.2      Based on a continuous review of implementation programs by AARD's
Secretariat, implementation schedules would be refined and updated annually and
sent to the Bank for review. As implementation proceeds, operational support
for existing research programs would be redirected in accordance with changing
research priorities as a result of the improved research monitoring and planning
procedures established during the initial years of the project. The major
elements of the Action Program in Annex 2, in terms of monitorable actions given
below, would be implemented as indicated and a comprehensive annual work
program and financing plan for research would be submitted by April 1 of each
year. Assurances were obtained at negotiations on key actions to be taken over
the five-year project period as follows: (a) formalize the re-establishment of
CARP by June 30, 1990; (b) establishment of a MIS based on a limited data base
of essential information in the areas of program, financial, staff and



- 33 -
facilities management, with associated training and equipment installation, in
CARP and all research centers/institutes by June 30, 1991; (c) expansion of the
current staff development plan to include contract and support staff as well as
permanent professional staff by June 30, 1991; (d) a detailed plan and schedule
for introducing improved accounting and financial control procedures by
June 30, 1991; (e) a full inventory of research assets by type and by research
center/institute by June 30, 1991; and (f) a minimum of five percent annual
increase in funding for research in real terms over the five year period
1989/90-1993/94 (para. 7.2 (a) and (b)).
B. Project Organization and Management
5.3      The AARD Secretariat would have overall responsibility for project
implementation. A small number of additional staff and consultants would be
appointed in the Secretariat of AARD, to assist AARD's existing staff to
administer the construction program and equipment procurement, to coordinate the
training, fellowships and technical assistance programs, and to supervise
implementation of the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the AARD staff required for effective project implementation would be designated
no later than June 30, 1989 (para. 7.1(a)).
5.4      CARP would be headed by a Coordinator who has already been appointed by
the DG of AARD. CARP will support the AARD Board in formulating and monitoring
the national work program of AARD. At the National level, CARP would be
responsible for setting plans, program budgeting, monitoring and evaluation, and
accounting and financial controls, as well as establishing the methodology and
procedures for continuing programming and budgeting at all levels of AARD on a
five and ten year forward planning basis with the assistance of the improved
management information system.  While the Secretariat would continue its
responsibility for general administration of AARD, including accounting,
personnel management and facilities management, CARP would be the DG's major
source for policy advice and to fulfill that function would be responsible for
developing MIS and for preparation and implementation of the RMP. Some parts of
the Secretariat and CADP would be absorbed into CARP. The organogram of CARP is
shown in Chart 4.
Coordination of Research within AARD
5.5      In line with the emphasis upon research management, particular
attention would continue to be given to further strengthening the process of
research coordination. This would be accomplished by: (a) the work of existing
National Coordinators in food crops responsible for research on specific
commodities at different institutes, i.e. rice, corn, soybean, root and tuber
crops; (b) collaborative research on farming systems and post-harvest technology
between research institutes in different commodity sectors; (c) the Board of
Estate Research Management in estate crops being responsible for research on
specific export commodities at different institutes, i.e. rubber, oil palm,
coffee, cocoa, tea, and chinchona; and (d) the Board of Sugar Research
Management being responsible for research coordination on sugar.
5.6      The existing Agricultural Research Board would be responsible for
research policies, funding, and coordination of research programs, and for
reviewing and approving annually the rolling five year National Agricultural
Research Program prepared by CARP. This Board is chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture and comprises the four Directors General, as well as DGs of AARD and
of the AAETE.



- 34 -
5.7      AARD would organize reviews of ongoing research programs by independent
specialists on some broad management issues and selected research topics as and
when required. Scientists from outside AARD with distinguished careers in their
respective fields would be hired for the purpose of these reviews. On
completion, the results of these reviews would be furnished to the Bank for
comments.
5.8      At the regional level, the RIs would be responsible for initiating
research program proposals for CARP's consideration, through their respective
RCCs, for implementing the agreed research program to meet the specific local
agroclimatic needs.
5.9      The Director of the CAER would be responsible for implementing the
component for strengthening agro-economic research; the Director of the RI for
Estate Crops Bogor would be responsible for implementing the bio-technology
component; the Director of the RCC for Food Crops would be responsible for
implementing the post-harvest technology component and establishing the
networking arrangements; and the Director of the RCC for Fisheries would be
responsible for implementing the fisheries component.
Research-Extension Linkages
5.10     Staff of each research institute or research substation, together with
provincial agricultural staff and the staff of AAETE's training and information
centers, would contribute to the regional program at the provincial or district
level. At the headquarters for each regional complex, a data base would be
developed for each agro-ecological zone covered by the complex. These would be
disaggregated by province and by district for use by staff at those levels.
Mechanisms would be developed for the selection and conduct of adaptive trials
to be carried out in the provinces of the complex, and all PPSs in the most
remote districts would receive training through occasional residential courses
and by the use of the media and better access to publications. These mechanisms
would be discussed and approved by the National Agricultural Extension
Commission, and by the Provincial and District Forums.
Research Fund
5.11     All Indonesian Universities would be eligible to submit proposals for
research projects. At appraisal, twelve universities had already expressed
interest in the scheme. In selecting projects, priority would be given to those
addressing topics and commodities identified as being of high priority in past
plans and reviews and during the further development of RMP. Projects would
normally be expected to be limited to a three-year time frame (for general
release of funds) and a ceiling of US$12,000 annually, but exceptions could be
considered.
5.12     Assurances were obtained from GOI that a Research Grants Board (RGB)
would be established by September 30, 1989 to set priorities and approve
proposals for funding (para. 7.1(a)). The Chairman of the Board would be the
AARD Secretary with members selected from university, private and governmental
research institutions. The technical content of the proposals would be assessed
by National Commodity Research Groups, also consisting of representatives of the
research community, which would be responsible for making recommendations for



- 35 -
support or rejection to RGB. Day to day administration and secretarial services
would be provided by the existing Support Unit and Coordinator. In order to
facilitate management, the Research Fund would be established in a separate bank
account with a deposit of US$100,000 and would be replenished at intervals
according to the disbursements made and the anticipated demand. Assurances were
also obtained that projects submitted for consideration that exceed the annual
ceiling of US$12,000 or that have unusual features would be provided to the Bank
for review before final approval by the RGB (para. 7.1(a)).
C. MIS Development
5.13     Work on MIS development has already been initiated.  During the project
period a phased development is proposed as follows: an AARD-wide system based
on limited key information would be installed in the Secretariat of AARD and in
each research center and institute during the first two years of the project.
Concurrently, a more detailed system would be developed at two selected RIs and
gradually introduced at all RIs and RCs over the project period.
D. Operational Funding
5.14     Under the project, the budget for research operations would be
estimated every year on the basis of agreed guidelines and actual needs as
determined by the RCs and RIs. The AARD Secretariat in collaboration with CARP
would be responsible for setting up the programming and budget planning. Bank
funding for incremental operating expenditures would be reduced, as GOI
increases its contribution correspondingly.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.15     All activities of the project would be monitored by the coordinator of
CARP. In the project there is a continuing program of strengthening the
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capability of CARP and the RC/RIs. AARD staff
would be trained in M&E and existing M&E systems would be continuously upgraded
during the project with technical guidance from consultants. The improved MIS
system to be implemented by CARP would result in improved and faster reporting
on the progress in proposed management changes and impact on the overall
research program. The RCCs and RIs would provide progress reports on a regular
basis to CARP, which would also indicate special actions needed. M&E reports
would be submitted to the Bank by December 31 each year. The M&E reports would
focus on: (a) physical and financial summary indicators measuring performance
against agreed targets, including expenditures on management, and operating
expenses; and (b) impact of project activities, including training, technical
assistance, improved research communication, research quality and effective use
of research results. A joint AARD-Bank mid-term review of the project would be
carried out no later than June 30, 1992 to assess the progress made in
implementing the various components and management changes and to make the
necessary modifications, if any, for continued effective project implementation.



- 36 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1      The proposed project would ensure that full benefits would be derived
from GOI's earlier substantial investments in developing agricultural research
infrastructure and manpower. It would permit GOI and AARD to undertake
essential actions and reforms required for a more sharply-focused, effectively-
managed, and cost-effective agricultural research service. Moreover, it would
assist in correcting earlier imbalances and gaps in the development of the
research system, and increase emphasis on research in subsectors previously
neglected or having become higher priority because of changed economic
conditions. Improved linkages and two-way communication between research and
extension on the one hand, and research and policy makers on the other, would
facilitate faster and wider application of new technology. This would ensure
that agricultural research effectively supports national and sectoral objectives
in agriculture.
6.2      The benefits of the project would be wide-spread throughout the
agricultural sector, as reflected in more effective and efficient use of
research resources, with its ultimate effects on agricultural growth and
development. There is still considerable potential for yield and productivity
increases, particularly in subsectors other than rice. The following table is
indicative of the difference between actual and potential yield of a number of
commodities on the basis of research findings.
Average Farm Yield    Potential Yield
--------------(tons/ha)--------------
Swamp Rice                        1.0-2.0                  3.0-5.0
Corn                                 1.8                   3.6-6.0
Soybean                              1.0                   1.5-2.0
Peanuts                              1.0                      2.5
Mungbeans                            0.7                    1.5-1.7
Gassava                             11.0                     40.0
Sweet Potato                         8.5                    25-28
Coconut (Copra)                     .6-.7                  2.0-4.0
Tobacco                              0.65                     1.3
Rubber                               0.35                  1.0-1.5
Cocoa                                0.4                      0.7
Shrimp Culture                       0.2                   5.0-6.0
An economic rate of return for the project has not been calculated because of
the difficulty of directly linking project actions to specific benefits, the
inherent risks and uncertainties in the timing and value of research results,
and the difficulties in separating the potential benefits of research from those
of complementary inputs like extension and irrigation, preclude exact
quantification of expected benefits. However, problem-oriented research and
development of new technology traditionally have given high returns, and
productivity increasing technological advance will eventually determine
Indonesia's competitiveness in the production of agricultural commodities. The
improved research system, by providing economically viable and socially and



- 37 -
environmentally acceptable production technologies for Indonesia's different
agro-ecologies, will strongly contribute to GOI's long-term policy objectives of
food self-sufficiency, agricultural diversification, and increased rural incomes
and export earnings, with favorable effects on the balance of payments, the
budget, employment and human resources development, and regional balance.
B. Beneficiaries
6.3      Since much technology is scale-neutral, the number and range of
potential beneficiaries is large, including small as well as large producers,
processors, traders and landless laborers in all subsectors. The expanding role
of socio-economic and farming systems research would allow a greater degree of
specification of target groups, including women and poverty groups. Greater
emphasis on research in the outer islands and for marginal areas such as uplands
and coastal swamp areas, would also tend to benefit more of the less privileged
segments of the population. Resource-poor farmers would benefit from a shift in
research focus to aim more specifically at efficient, sustainable resource use
(including low input-output systems) and maximum productivity. More generally,
benefits would include improved nutrition and employment and income
opportunities.
C. Resource Utilization and Environmental Effects
6.4      The project would have a favorable impact on the environment.
Increased focus on farming systems research aimed at developing efficient
production systems for agro-ecological zones of different resource potential
would: (a) optimize the long-term, productive utilization of natural resources,
in line with the comparative advantage of different regions, (b) afford a
greater degree of protection to fragile environments, (c) promote a more
balanced, equitable development of areas with unequal or different resource
endowments, and (d) lead to more integrated and harmonious rural development.
Research programs would be designed to develop sustainable technologies
safeguarding the delicate balance of agro-ecosystems, minimizing health hazards,
and conserving resources. Integrated pest management practices would be
developed for major pests and diseases, minimizing the use of hazardous
chemicals. Farming system research programs would include methods of soil
management to ensure the productivity of tropical soils and technologies to
retain and control runoff and minimize soil loss, as well as other conservation
practices for sustainable production systems. Research would give increasing
attention to conservation of soil, with special emphasis on the environmental
impact of land development in transmigration areas and fragile ecosystems.
D. Risks and Uncertainties
6.5      In addition to the normal risks associated with any research
undertaking where results can never be guaranteed, the main risks of the
proposed project are associated with possible unsatisfactory implementation of
project actions in rationalizing the national agricultural research program due
to: (a) possible resistance to policy and institutional change (requiring
action at different levels of government) and continued institutional weakness
in carrying out the required reforms; and (b) inadequate funding for operation
and maintenance expenditures. The latter could become a major risk if funds
from domestic and other sources could not be adequately increased during the
project period and beyond. There is a realization within GOI that present



- 38 -
research funding, estimated at about 0.2 percent of agricultural GDP, is
inadequate and should be increased. However, with present budgetary
constraints, there is a risk that funding would not increase as expected and
that shortfalls might occur, reducing the impact of research. This risk has
been minimized by partly funding the cost of research operations from loan
proceeds and by obtaining assurances from GOI that operational funding would be
increased in real terms during the project period (para. 3.12). Improved
management, supported by the project would also increase the effectiveness of
the available resources. Risks would further be reduced by agreement with GOI
on a phased action plan, including a comprehensive operational financing plan,
involving GOI and various donors in joint annual program reviews. Lastly, GOI
is committed to institutional development and policy reform; this will minimize
the perceived risks in the proposed project.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1      Assurances were obtained from GOI at negotiations that:
(a)      with respect to improving research planning and management:
(i)   the formalized re-establishment of CARP would be completed by
June 30, 1990 (para. 5.2);
(ii)  a MIS based on limited essential information in the areas of
program, financial, staff and facilities management would be
established, with associated training and equipment installation,
in CARP and all research centers/institutes by June 30, 1991
(para. 5.2).
(iii) the current staff development plan would be expanded to include
contract and support staff as well as permanent professional
staff, by June 30, 1991 (para. 5.2);
(iv)  a detailed plan and proposed schedule for introducing improved
accounting and financial control would be prepared by June 30,
1991 (para. 5.2);
(v)   AARD staff required for effective project implementation would be
designated by June 30, 1989 (para. 5.3).
(vi)  a Research Grants Board would be established by
September 30, 1989 (para. 5.12);
(vii) projects submitted for consideration for funding under the
Research Fund exceeding the annual ceiling of US$12,000 or having
unusual features would be provided to the Bank for review before
final approval by RGB (para. 5.12);



- 39 -
(b)      with respect to adequate funding for research -
(i)   funds for research O&M would be provided using standards
satisfactory to the Bank, an inventory of research assets by type
and by institute would be completed during the first two years of
the project to provide a firm basis for determining actual O&M
requirements, formulation of improved O&M standards would be
completed during the third project year and implemented as from
the beginning of the fourth project year, and adequate O&M funds
would be made available for new facilities constructed under the
project (paras. 3.12 3.14 and 5.2);
(ii) annual reviews would be conducted with the Bank on funding levels
for research priorities, and work programs and financing programs
would be submitted to the Bank by October 31 each year
(paras. 3.12 and 5.2); and
(iii) funding for research would be increased by a minimum of five
percent annually in real terms over the five-year period
1989/90-1993/94 (para. 3.12).
(c)      the training program would be implemented according to a schedule
acceptable by the Bank (para. 3.9).
7.2      With above agreements and assurances, the project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$35.3 million with a 20 year maturity at the standard variable
rate, including a grace period of five years. The Borrower would be the
Republic of Indonesia.






- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Research Objectives (1985/86-1994/95)
The research objectives of the AARD programs are in line with National
Development Plan goals. As of 1985/86, they reflect the Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan. Research objectives will be continually reviewed and
revised during the next ten years. Major objectives currently are the
following.
Research coordinating center/
institutes                            Major research objectives
Coordinating Research Center for        Key Objectives:  hybrid rice, hybrid
Food Crops (cereals, root and tuber   corn, improved rice varieties for
crops, and grain legumes)               upland, rainfed lowland and swampy
areas; soybean; other palawija crops;
improved cropping systems, postharvest
and biotechnology; studies on the
socioeconomic aspects at the micro
level.
Bogor                                 - Development of hybrid rice,
cytogenitics and other basic research
on the production and postharvest
aspects cf all food crops.
Sukamandi                             - Improved rice and rice-based cropping
systems for lowland irrigated areas.
- Postharvest handling technology for
food crops.
- Studies on the socioeconomic aspects.
Sukarami                              - Improved rice and rice-based cropping
systems for upland and rainfed lowland
farming areas with relatively short
dry season.
Maros                                 - As above but for upland and rainfed
areas with relatively long dry season.
Banjarbaru                            - Improved rice and rice-based cropping
systems for swampy (tidal and
nontidal farming areas.
- Studies on the socioeconomic aspects.



-41 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 2 of 5
Research coordinating center/
institutes                            Major research objectives
Malang                                - Improved palawija crop-based farming
systems, development of hybrid corn,
improved soybean and other grain
legumes, and root and tuber crop
varieties.
- Studies on the socioeconomic aspects.
Coordinating Research Center for        Key Obiectives:  Improved planting
Industrial Crops: and Estate Crops    materials of coconut, cotton; other
fiber crops, cloves, pepper, medicinal
crops, oil palm, rubber, tea, cinchona,
coffee, cocoa, sugarcane. Pest
management; tree crops-based farming
systems postharvest technology.
Bogor (spices and medicinal           - Improved production of spices, such as
plants)                                 cloves and pepper, pest and disease
management.
- Screening of medicinal plants for the
production of oestrogenic steroids for
contraception and other secondary
chemicals for medicinal uses.
Manado (coconut)                      - Collection of improved genetic
material of coconut from within the
country and abroad.
- Development of a long-term breeding
program for varieties and hybrids to
improve planting materials.
- Studies on the use of fertilizers,
pest and disease management, and mixed
cropping of coconuts with other crops.
- Studies on the socioeconomic aspects.
Malang (tobacco and fiber crops)    - Breeding and improved production for
tobacco as well as improvement in seed
quality and postharvest technology.
- Improvement in varietal purity in
cotton, agronomic practices, and
integrated insect pest management.
- Studies on the socioeconomic aspects.
Medan (oil palm)                      - Improved production and planting
materials of oil palm, postharvest
technology.
- Studies on the socioeconomic aspects.



- 42 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 3 of 5
Research coordinating center/
institutes                            Major research objectives
Sungei Putih (rubber)                 - Improved production and planting
materials of rubber.
Sembawa (smallholder rubber)          - Same as above for Sungei Putih;
rubber-based farming systems.
- Studies on the socioeconomic aspects.
Bogor (rubber)                        - Rubber processing and basic research
including tissue culture, pioneering
research on promising estate crops.
Jember (coffee and cocoa)             - Improvement of coffee and cocoa and
its management.
- Studies on the socioeconomic aspects.
Gambung (tea and chinchona)           - Improved production and planting
materials of tea to improve quality.
- Research on postharvest processing.
- Studies on the socioeconomic aspects.
Pasuruan (sugarcane)                  - All aspects of sugar improvement and
postharvest technology.
Coordinating Research Center for        Key Obiectives:  Improved production and
Horticultural Crops                     planting materials of tropical fruits;
lowland and highland vegetables; virus-
free citrus planting materials;
postharvest technology; studies on
socioeconomic aspects at the micro level
on horticultural crops farming systems.
Lembang (vegetables)                  - Improved planting materials of potato,
tomato, cabbages, beans, peppers,
garlic and shallots; improved
agronomic practices, pest and disease
management, and postharvest
technology.
Solok (fruits)                        - Improved production and planting
materials, especially virus-free of
citrus; improvement through breeding
and selection of banana, papaya and
other tropical fruits.
- Pest and disease management.
- Postharvest technology.



- 43 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 4 of 5
Research coordinating center/
institutes                            Major research objectives
Coordinating Research Center for        Key Objectives:  Improved nutrition,
Animal Husbandry                        reproduction, disease control, socio-
economics, management and farming
systems.
Ciawi and Bogor (animal               - Improvement in productivity of small
production)                             ruminants, cattle, buffalo, horses,
swine, ducks, chickens and rabbits,
through breeding, reproductions,
management and nutrition.
- Introduction of livestock into crop-
based agriculture and livestock-based
farming systems.
- Socioeconomic studies.
- Biotechnology.
Bogor (veterinary science)            - Development of integrated disease
control programs for improved local
and introduced livestock breeds in
crop-based production systems.
- Biological products development and
standardization.
Coordinating Center for Fisheries       Key Obiectives:  Marine stocks
assessment; aquaculture of marine,
brackish and fresh water shrimp and fish
and other fisheries products; genetic
improvement of shrimp and domesticated
fishes; socio-economics and post-harvest
technology.
Jakarta (marine fisheries)            - Stock assessment.
- Socioeconomic studies.
- Postharvest technology.
- Production of fin fishes.
Maros (brackish and coastal           - Improved production technology.
aquaculture)                          - Genetic improvement of shrimp and
domesticated fishes.
- Integrated management of diseases.
- Socioeconomic studies.
- Postharvest technology.
Sukamandi (freshwater fisheries)    - Same as above for freshwater species
aquaculture including carps, catfish,
Tilapia new domestic fishes and frog.
- Socioeconomic studies.



-44-                                ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 5 of 5
Research coordinating center/
institutes                            Major research objectives
Center of Soils Research (Bogor)        Key Objectives:  Land capability
research covering land evaluation, soil
mapping, standardization of soil
analysis techniques, soil fertility
testing and soil conservation and
rehabilitation research.
Center for Agro-economic Research       Key Objectives:  Further development of
(Bogor)                                 the National Panel of Farmer Project to
provide monitoring information on
agricultural production, income and
employment to policymakers for
agricultural planning.



-45 -                                     Ann-   1
Table 2
INDONESTA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
Non-bank External Supoort for AARD
Grant/
Location/Prolect                       Duration       Donor      Loan   USSmillion
AARD (General)
Applied Agricultural Research        1980-85         US         G      6.50
Applied Agricultural Research        1980-85         US         L     18.90
Agricultural Development
Planning and Administration
(agro data processing)             1978-83        US         L       1.30
Agricultural Research
Operational Funding                1986-90         Us        L      33.0  (59.70)
Sol
Benchmark Soils                      1977-83         uS        G       0.40
Fertilizer Use                       1982-85    Australia    G         1.60
Soil Research                        1974-79      Holland      G       0.40
Soil - Zoning                        1974-80      Belgium      G       0.80
Land Resources                       1979-83      FAO/UNDP     G       2.10
Land Capability                      1972-76      FAO/UNDP     G       1.20
Tropsoils Project                    1982-86         US         G      5.40 (11.90)
Sumatra Agricultural Research        1978-83         US        G       2.50
Agricultural Research                1972-82         US        G       2.96
Regional Rice Research               1972-82         US        G       1.10
Rice/Soybean/Corn                    1974-77      Holland      G       1.10
Horticulture                         1974-78      Holland      G       0.90
Secondary Crops (Malang)             1981-86      Holland      G       5.20
Seed Potato                          1980/81         UK        G       0.20
Food Legumes                         1978-83       Japan       G       2.30
Food Crops                           1971-78       Japan       G       1.50
Sumatra Agricultural Research        1978-84         US        L       7.00
Grain Handling and Storage           1977-79 Australia/ASEAN G         0.14
Tropical Agronomy for Potato
(SAPPRAD)                          1982-87    Australia    G         0.23
Tissue Culture for Virus-Free
Potato                             1982-84         US        G       0.15
Hybrid Rice Project                  1982-84         US         G      0.55 (48.72)
&aimal
Small Ruminant R&D                   1980-84         US        G       2.50
Animal Disease Research              1980-85    Australia    G         5.52
Animal Production Center             1974-89    Australia    G        33.00
Pasture and Fodder Crops             1982-87     Australia    C        6.30
Animal Health                        1978            UK         G      0.30
gpidesiology Laboratory              1980-85         UK        G       1.10  (6.21)
Estate Crots/Industrial Crops
General                              1970-80    Australia    G         0.06
Tea and Cinchona                     1978-81      Holland       G      1.80
Pepper                               1981-86      Holland       G      0.30
Cloves                               1975-83         UK         C      0.70
Rubber and Oil Pslm Research         1972-77      FAO/UNDP      G      0.20
Coconut Research                     1973-83      FAO/UNDP      G      2.40
Rubber Research                      1979-83      Holland       G      0.25
Rubber Technology                    1980-83   Japan/ASEAN   G         0.50  (6.21)
Fisheries
Post Harvest                         1977-79         UK         G      0.20
Kariculture                          1979-81        Japan       G      2.50
Fish Parasites                       1976-79       Canada       G      0.20
Inland Fisheries                     1981-84    IDRC/Canada   G        0.25
Fish Parasites (Phase II)            1983-86    IDRC/Canada   G        0.20  (3.35)
Post-Harvest Technology              1984-87     Australia    G        0.80
Forest
Sav Use                              1980-83      FAO/UNDP      G      0.20  (0.20)
Total                                                              1221



- 46 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 13
I. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH POLICY STATEMENT
A. Agricultural Sector Objectives'
1.       In its broad sense, the Agricultural Sector of Indonesia is the major
source of productive employment and income generation in the rural economy.
Future growth in the agricultural sector is required to stimulate increases in
incomes, employment, and living standards of the rural population and to assure
equitable distribution of the benefits of development. Future growth is also
required in order to meet domestic demand and to increase foreign exchange
earnings. Greater efficiency, productivity, and sound use of natural resources
are required to fuel sustainable agricultural sector growth.
2.       The broad objectives of the agricultural sector are to sustain foodcrop
self-sufficiency; to increase production and product quality, both for domestic
consumption and export; to diversify production in order to widen commodity
markets through product development and increased employment opportunities; to
raise farmer productivity and increase value added in agriculture; to raise farm
incomes and expand employment opportunities; to increase integration within the
agricultural sector and between agriculture and industry; to develop region
specific agricultural programs while encouraging trade across regions; and to
preserve and protect the nation's natural resources so as to achieve a
sustainable pattern of agricultural development.
3.       National objectives outlined in the Guidelines for State Policy will
guide agricultural development policy through programs which will stimulate an
increase the production and quality of agricultural commodities while
simultaneously increasing the incomes and living standards of the farmers.
Future agricultural development programs must increase productive employment
opportunities, stimulate agro-industrial development and contribute to the
growth in export earnings. These programs will follow the government policy to
diversify the agricultural base while intensifying, extensifying, and
rehabilitating agricultural production as required in specific agro-ecological
areas.
4.       Agricultural development programs will take into account the natural
resource environment and social conditions of the population in order to promote
a sustainable path of agricultural development and technological change. The
key to future development of the agricultural sector is the generation and
adoption of new technologies which meet the specific needs of the farm
enterprise. It is important that new technologies be used appropriately with
concern for the social aspects of their application.
5.       The primary emphasis in certain commodity programs is on meeting
domestic need and import substitution while for others foreign exchange
generation is a higher priority. Continued strong growth in food production is
required in order to ensure that the nation can sustain self-sufficiency in rice
and achieve food security in other basic foodstuffs and that the nutritional
standards of the population are improved through the provision of more protein
1/ Note that agriculture only includes food crops, estate and industrial
crops, livestock and fisheries.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 13
rich, diversified diet. Production of estate crops, livestock, fishery, and
horticultural products should be increased to support growth in exports and to
supply growing domestic requirements.
B. Agricultural Research Objectives
6.       The main objectives of agricultural research are to promote food self
sufficiency, diversification, income generation, employment growth, export
enhancement through: (a) the characterizing, evaluating, utilizing, and
conserving of natural resources; (b) generating and adopting technologies which
can increase agricultural productivity, employment opportunities, income, and
equity; (c) developing sustainable production systems; (d) providing efficient
methods of processing, marketing, and utilization of both food and non food
products; and (e) dissemination of research findings to users: extension
workers/farmers, policy makers, scientists, and teachers. The agricultural
research system must be able to determine future needs and options for
agricultural growth and develop new pioneering technologies which will expand
the economic frontiers of the agricultural sector.
7.       At the same time, the agricultural research system must be able to
identify and provide alternative solutions to pressing problems that constrain
present growth and development. Technical constraints to agricultural growth
and development can be overcome through the application of science and
technology.
C. Agricultural Research Policy Statement
8.       Agricultural research will be directed to identify and develop
alternative development policies and technological innovations for each and
every ecological zone, which are economically, socially, technically, and
environmentally viable. These agricultural research policies are an integral
part of national development policy.
9.       To ensure that research funds are efficiently utilized, AARD research
programs will provide the inducement for both research activities and investment
initiatives supported by other public sector bodies and the private sector.
Research activities will be increasingly inter-disciplinary, will focus on
overcoming critical constraints to higher productivity, efficiency,
profitability, and stability, and will provide location specific recommendations
designed to enhance the comparative advantage of the nation's varied production
environments.
Policy 1: Criteria for Setting Priorities
10.      The effective and efficient use of agricultural research resources
requires that a set of criteria be established for prioritizing demands on
research resource allocation. The following criteria will be used to set
research priorities:
(a)  To ensure that adequate research is done on a core set of policies,
resource endowments, and commodities which form the mainstay of
agricultural development, the first priority for agriculture research



- 48 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 13
resource allocation will be devoted to those commodities and research
areas which are of political, economic, and social strategic
importance.
(b)  To ensure that research contributes to the sector objectives of
increased growth, income, employment, and equity, agricultural research
on other commodities and research areas will be conducted where there
is a high probability that the research will generate a fair balance of
growth and equity oriented development expenditures that yield: (i)
ample social and economic benefits, and (ii) abroad spread of such
research benefits to include the low income population and areas of
marginal resource endowment.
(c) To ensure that research provides a foundation for long-term sector
development, a portion of agriculture research resources will be
allocated to pioneering research such as biotechnology and new product
development, which will serve to expand the frontiers of the
agricultural sector. This will include research which will lead to
greater diversification of the farm sector.
Policy 2: Research Priorities
11.      Research on commodities in relation to resource endowments will follow
the government guidelines for development by diversifying, intensifying,
extensifying, and rehabilitating by matching appropriate research initiatives to
the quality of the natural resource base in the numerous agro-ecological areas
of Indonesia. In the context of land use, three useful productivity classes of
land are: (a) high potential, where diversification and intensification goals
may be in order; (b) future potential, where the g6als for extensification may
be best suited; and (c) less potential, where rehabilitation may be most
appropriate.
12.      Priorities in research resources will be allocated such that strategic
needs are met, regional resource endowments are efficiently utilized and new
opportunities for agricultural growth and development are generated. An agro-
ecological classification of land and water resources, which will serve as one
dimension of a planning matrix, includes the following areas: irrigated,
rainfed, upland, swamp, marine, coastal, and inland water. The second axis of
the planning matrix lists the commodity and discipline research areas which will
contribute to the innovations for improving the agriculture in these agro-
ecological areas. These include: foodcrops, horticulture, estate crops
including industrial crops, livestock, fisheries, soils, and socio-economies for
agriculture. Scientists from these commodity and discipline groups will devise
innovations which will enhance the productivity and stability of the
farming/harvesting systems of the area, reduce product losses, add value to the
product losses, add value to the product through processing, and enhance the
well-being of both producers and consumers through more efficient marketing,
pricing, and transporting systems.



-49 -                                 ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 13
Policy 3: Organization and Management of Research
13.      Organization and management of agricultural research will be improved
in order to: (a) link sectoral priorities to research program formulation, and
(b) effectively and efficiently capitalize on the massive investment undertaken
in human and physical resources over the past two decades.
14.      To provide a long-term, integrated planning perspective for
agricultural research, a set of Master Plans and priority Commodity Program
Plans will be prepared and updated periodically. Individual Research Centers
and Institutes will develop Center/Institute Plans based on the role identified
for their Institute in the sector and commodity-wide plans. These plans will be
revised to conform with the agenda resulting from the ten year plan now being
developed.
15.      To ensure that research projects and programs are planned in accordance
with the criteria established for prioritizing agricultural research
expenditures, the existing procedure will be improved through the external and
internal-review of research proposals to evaluate conformity with plan
objectives, to assess the relative technical merits of the research proposal and
to gauge the likely impact and probability of success of the research activity.
Review of the research proposals will be conducted by a multi-disciplinary group
of experts to ensure a greater degree of inter-specialization involvement in
research activity planning. The research project review model will serve as a
basis for developing an improved planning procedure. It is also felt that there
is a need to further define operational statement pertaining to the linkage
among working units from the time of program formulation up to the transfer and
application of the technology.
16.      Data bases which are required for long-term resource use planning will
continue to be developed. This information will be used to ensure sustainable
agricultural resources are utilized to their fullest extent, while prospecting
to the quality of the natural environment. Particular attention will be paid to
collecting and assembling the information required to plan for the rational use
of land, water, and fishery resources.
17.      To ensure effective institutionalization of planning activities within
the research system, a Center for Agricultural Research-Programming (CARP) will
be reestablished in the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development.
Resources will be provided to train the planning staff of the
Secretariat/Research Centers/Institutes. Planning groups in each Research
Institutes and Centers will be developed to complement the CARP.
18.      To provide a sound data base for program management, a Management
Information System (MIS) will be improved as a tool for the effective use of
agricultural research managers. The MIS will be fully automated and will
contain that information which is vital to informed decision making regarding
the allocation of agricultural research resources. The MIS will provide data to
research program managers in a timely and accurate fashion and will be an
important tool for planning, monitoring, and evaluating research programs.
19.      In line with the increased effort in providing management information,
managerial and financial management of research programs will also be
intensified and improved. The improvement will be consistent with the
improvement in financial management of the government.



- 50 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 13
20.      To ensure that the research staff are used to their fullest potential,
future manpower development will focus on providing in service training,
particularly management training, to the technical and administrative staff, and
will provide tertiary level training for scientists in under represented fields
where there is clearly a demonstrated need for additional expertise. Research
staff reallocation providing appropriate incentive scheme will be developed to
encourage research staff to shift from one place to another. Besides shifting
research staff either temporarily or permanently from the more favored research
locations to those in less favored areas off Java, AARD will give priority in
new recruitment and advanced training for the research, technical, and
administrative staff in the less favored research locations.
21.      To increase the efficiency of research resource utilization, greater
stress will be placed on interdisciplinary and inter institutional agricultural
research. The continued use of the farming systems approach to solving area
specific technology problems will be strengthened and institutionalized into
research program of AARD.
22.      To foster greater economics of scale in research problem solving,
greater net-working amongst the technical discipline specialists in the various
research units will be encouraged. Technical specialists in some professional
peer groups have already conducted regular meetings, prepared widely circulated
publications, and exchange information on recent developments in their field.
This practice will be extended through-out the AARD and will be strongly
encouraged and institutionalized into AARD program.
23.      To capture the benefits of research conducted outside of Indonesia,
continued effort will be made to tap into the research results of the
International Research Centers, the other national research systems and the
research services supported by larger private sector establishments. An
aggressive research search and collaboration approach will be intensified to
enable Indonesia to gain from third-party research investments. Many memoranda
of understanding already exist with international, regional, and national
institutions and the intensification of their use will be encouraged. The
organization of seminars both nationally and internationally is one way of
encouraging such interaction. The implementation of international research
collaboration and the execution of the actual search for global research
developments will be the responsibility of the concerned staff of the Research
Institutes/Centers.
Policy 4: Agricultural Research Linkages and Communication
24.      By fostering the linkage and integration among policy makers,
researchers, private sector agribusiness operators and the agricultural
extension, the agricultural research system will be better prepared to address
future needs and options for agricultural growth and better able to develop new
pioneering technologies which will expand the economic frontiers of the
agricultural sector. It has been the policy of the AARD to foster closer links
among policy makers, university scientists, formal and informal leaders of the
private sector, the agricultural extension service, the national and
international research institutes, and farmers. Universities will include
research program formulation, monitoring, evaluation and research results
communciation. Research results emerging from AARD and relevant research output
from Universities as well as international research institutions will be used as
an integrated input for program formulation of the Ministry of Agriculture.



-51 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 13
25.      More effective guidance to agricultural research and more rapid
translation of research findings into government policy will be accomplished by
increasing the frequency and quality of seminars and presentations of research
results to key government policy makers. The format for an occasional forum
between policy makers and researchers will be developed to promote greater
frequency of direct contact and interchange of ideas between these two groups.
This will facilitate policy formulation and increase the relevance of
agricultural research.   In order to facilitate speedy process of their adoption
and applicability, it is anticipated, that research reports contain assessment
of economic analysis and their impact on employment.
26.      To enhance the market-responsiveness of the agricultural research
system, increased linkages between the private sector and the AARD scientists
will be encouraged. A system will be devised to encourage research institutes
to enter into collaborative projects with the private sector. However, such
collaborative research ventures will not be allowed to substitute for higher
priority research which is required to satisfy the broader mandate of the
research units. Private sector representatives will be invited to participate
in major planning and result reporting events sponsored by the AARD.
27.      To instill healthy cooperation between universities and agricultural
researchers, a series of collaborative University/AARD activities will be
supported. Special inservice training courses and sabbatical programs for
agricultural researchers in international centers and appropriate universities
are needed. Furthermore, recently graduated research scientists with advanced
degrees will be encouraged to continue to develop their skills through teaching
on a limited part time basis in accredited institutes of higher education in
accordance with the policy set forth by the Director General of the AARD.
28.      To ensure more rapid dissemination of agricultural research results,
closer links between agricultural researchers and the agricultural extension
staff will be intensified.   Linkage between researchers and users, will be
further intensified in order, to facilitate speedy research results
communication as well as to obtain feedback for future research program
formulation according to priority scale. This will be accomplished by increasing
the number of field days, by conducting onfarm farming systems research jointly
with the local extension staff, by cooperating with the local agricultural
service staff on site selection, design and evaluation of verification trials,
and by conducting periodic training courses for the subject matter specialists
in the region so as to keep the extension service abreast of the latest research
findings. In order to speed up the dissemination and proper utilization of
research results, the research units will intensify their active participation
in the Commission on National Agricultural Extension (Komisi Penyuluhan
Pertanian Nasional) at the national level and in the Forum for Coordination of
Agricultural Extension (Forum Koordinasi Penyuluhan Pertanian) at the provincial
level. In addition, efforts to minimize and resolve research communication
problems due to uneven distribution of research units throughout the country as
well as improvement of extension specialist (PPS) skills will receive high
priority.
Policy 5: Operational Financing for Agricultural Research
29.      In order to achieve enhanced productivity and profitability for
Indonesia's farmers and fishermen, the agricultural research system requires
sustained increments in its annual budget. Operational research expenditure
will be increased at least 5% real growth to ensure a sound basis for research



- 52 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 13
30.      Justification for a sustained 5% real growth annually in the budget for
agricultural research is evidenced by the role research has played in the
attainment of self-sufficiency in rice production, security in other food
stuffs, and enhanced agricultural exports. These national achievements have had
a positive impact on the country's economy. After a suitable level of funding
for the national agricultural research system is achieved, the level of
operational and other development expenditures will be adjusted according to the
perceived economic return of different forms of research and the requirements
for replacement investment identified in the capital development program and
manpower development program.
31.      To provide for a more stable source of long-term financing, the
research units will be encouraged to enter into long-term collaborative
agreements with the private sector. Such cooperative activities will be
strictly limited to the field of agricultural research and research findings
from them will be available to the general public. Proceeds from such
collaborative agreements will be used for further research activities. This
implementation of third party contracting and contract management will follow
the existing ministerial and AARD procedures. Training in collaborative project
contracting and management will be provided to the staff of the research
institutes.



No.  Policy title       Policy  rea                      Medium-tern objectives             Action proposed              By                      Key steps                    Timetable       Monitoring indicators
1.   Priorities for   (a) Foture policy is to          (0)    stable allocations of         (i)    research policy       AARD/MOA               Policy statement              88/89           Draft statement
resource               enesorc lose link                  research expenditures               statement final-                             discussed
allocation             between sector goals               on eco.omically import-              Ized
a-id research program              ant commodities and
resource nlocatfoLc                activtites with a focus  (it)   widesplead dis-          5AR1                   liinsteinal decree            b9190           Draft ministry
on generating pro-                  sesination of the                           prepared                                      decree
ductine income and                  research state-
employment oppor-                   sent
tunities for the poor
(b) Foture policy is to        (ii)   New research programs         (ili)  research policy       PCARP/AARD             Policy Statement by AARD  88/89              TOR CARP
,se research to create             designed to diversify               statement used as                           for future research
opJportolliLies for                thie agricultural sector            the basis for                               programming
kl-g-t-er  sector                                                      longrer. planning
growth                                                                 actilvities
(c) Fotr- policy is to          (iii)  research programs            (iv)    echanisma set to  PCARP/AARD                AMRD to develop close        88/89           Committee
e-hl,na. c-.PIinmen-               adjusted according to               adjust research                             liaison with direct-                          appointed
tarity  It pnblic and              the specific needs and              programs as                                 orates general for
prit-te sector                     requirements of the                 market conditions                           review of agricultural
research                           market                              change                                      market prospects and
reports
2.   Improved           (a) l-ng-term  plans            (t)    Link sector priorities    Master plan formulation    AARD/Cons.                  TOP developed                 88t89           Comptleted plan
research               developed                          and research program                                                             Team assembled               88/89
planning                                                  developine it
Ettended maoter plans        AARD/CARP              TOR developed                89/90           Completed plans
formulated                                         Teaie assembled               90/91
Commodity program plans    AARD/SEC                 TOR developed                88/89           Completed plans
formulated                                          National meetings            88/89/90
(li)   Link sector priorities    Manpower plan developed    AARD/Cons                   l'OR developed               88/90           Completed plan
and resource require-                                                           Teams assembled               89/90
men us
Capital management plan    ARRD/Cons                TOR developed                89/90            Completed plan
developed                                           Team assembled               90/91
(tii)  Link research institute   Research institute plans  Ri planning staff    TOR developed                        88/89            Completed plans
programs to national        developed                                           Team assembled                89/90
plans
(b) Inproo- project plans    (I)    Institute peer review          Form institute based          AARD-lnst.             TOR developed                88/89           Draft TOR
process                     RPTP committees              university staff       Screening protocol            89/90           Draft protocol
developed
(ii)   Encoorage multi-dis-         Establish project
ciplinary and inter-        screening criteris with    AARD-lnst.               Screening comm                89/90           Co_. eatibiahed
institutional research    heavy emphasis on multi-                              established
disciplinary and inter-
institutional research
0lp
CD



No.  Policy title        Policy area                      Medium-term objectives              Action proposed               By                     Key steps                     Timetable       Monitoring indicators
2.   Continued           (c) improv- data bases          (I)    Preside stronger plann-  Continue land use                  AARD-tnst.             Continue survey work          89-             Survey reports
ing fotandatlon for         surveys
natural resource utili-
zation and conserva-        Continue forestry             AARD-Inst.             Continue survey work           89-             Survey reports
t ions                      resource surveys
Continue watershed            AARD-Inst.             Continue survey work          89-             Survey reports
inventory
(d) Ipr-ov, planaing            (t)    Establish plasning body   Establish proto-CANP              AARD-SEC.              Prepare Dir. Gen. decree   89/90              Dir. Gen. decision
apacIt y                           in AARD Secretariat                                                                                                              letter
Establish CARP               HOA                     Include CARP in MOA           90/91           MOA staff request
organization request                          document
(Ii)   Provide training in          Conduct training in           Consultants            Prepare TOR                    89/90           Draft TOR
pla-ning techniques         research planning
Identify consultants          90/91           Pianning con-
suiltmats in place
3.   Maniagemoent       Mait-g-ent Informatton           Provide data base for                Design system                 AARD/ISNAR             Identify computer needs    88/89               Computer needs
retorm             systen dev-ellopaent             invesiLent and program                                                                    Prepare software              89/90           identIfied
management                          Automate facilities                                   Procure computers             89/90           Computer system in
place
Conduct training              AARD/ISNAR             Develop training courses   89/90/91           Training courses
conducted
Pilot test the system         AARD/IStAR             Select test cases             done            Report on test         in
Implement collection and   90/91              runs of the MIS        41
retrieval system
Evaluate pilot case           91/92           Evaluation report
of the MIS
Extend to additional          MARD/ISNAR             Select expansion areas        91/92           Recomnendations
Institutes                                          Implement expanslon of        92-             prepared for the
HIS program                                   MIS expansion
Isproved -coo,ntilog            Isproved accounttng and              Close liaison with           MOA/MOF                 Appoint official              89/90           Committee
pra,ticec                       financial sanagewent                 ministries at agri-                                  ilalson group or                               appointed
cilture and finance                                  committee                     89/9()          Procedural changes
regarding updating of
GOIl financial management
procedure
tv
CD 
oX
It 



No.  Policy title       Policy area                      Medium-term objectives             Action proposed              By                      Key steps                    Timetable      Monitoring indicators
3.   Continued                                          Assess market value of capital  Utiltze new accounting           AARD-SEC               Prepare TOR                   89/90           Draft TOR prepared
stock                               procedures to value                                 Implement on a pilot         91/92            Staff in place
research capital stock                             basis
Extend to non pilot          92/-
areas as required
Regularize third-party              Utilize financial            AARD-SEC               Prepare TOR                  89/90           Draft TOR prepared
contracting procedures              management consultants                              Identify consultants         90/91           Consultants
to develop guidelines                                    I                                       selected
for third-party con-                               Ratify guidelines             90/91           Guidelines
tracts                                                                                           ratified
lmprove accounting skills           Use local institutes for  AARD-SEC                 Training plan prepared        90/91           Plan prepared
staff training in                                   Institute and candidates  90/91
accounting and financial                            identified
wanagement                                          Conduct training             91/92           Candidates trained
External research reviews    Ensure the quality and                 Identify topics and          AAMRD-SEC              Incorporate In master        89/90           Master plan
positive impact of                  programa  for review                                plan
agricultural research
Conduct external reviews  AARD-Cons.                Prepare and review  TOR      92/93           TOR prepared
Identify team                92/93           Teaes in place
Report on results            93/94           Evaluation
prepared
Staff development              Enhance professionalism of           Develop an in-service        AARD-univeralties   Prepare training program   90/91                Training program
staff                               training program, semi-                                                                          prepared                  Li
nars and workshops                                  Identify Institutes and    90/91                                       Li
especially In the                                   candidates
following areas:
a.  Financial management                           Conduct training              91-             Candidates trained
b. Equipment utili-
tation and main-
tenance
c. Farming systems
research methodology
d. Socio-economtcs; and
e. Biotechniology and
genetic engineering
Provide additional specialists   Identify requirements in   MRD-CARP                    Incorporate manpower         89/90/91        Master plans
master plan and co_od-                              needs in strategic plans
ity plans
Identify candidates and    AAMRD-Inst.             Select candidates
training institutes                                                              89/90/91
Select institutes
89/90/91        Candidates trained
Train staff
90/-95
qh 
I-h
*LA



No.  PolIcy title        Polity are.-                     Medium-term objectives              Action proposed               By                      Key steps                    Timetable       Monitoring indicators
3.   Continued                                           Correct regional imbalance in    Identify regional                 AARD-CARP              Incorporate manpower          89/9U/91         Master plans
staff deployment                     Imbalances                                          allocation in strategic
plans
Recruit relocate staff       AARD-SEC                Revise annual manpower        92/93/94        Staff deployed
AARD-lnst.             assignments with
relocated staff
Multi-discipline and            Increase efficiency of               Prepare farming system        AARD-CARR              Review methods                90/91
inter-instLutional             research Investment by encour-  guidelines for inter-                                     Prepare guidelines            90/91            Guidelines
research                        aging multt-disciplinary and         institute research                                   Train other researchers                        prepared
Inter-institutional research                                                                                            91/92/93        Training sessions
conducted
Incorporate inter-           AARD-lnst.              Prepare annual budgets        92/93           Multi-specialist
disciplinary research In                             to reflect multi-                             programs financed
each center's mandate                                disciplinary focus
Resedrch networking             To encourage greater                 Annual specialist             AARD-tnst.             Meetings planned              90-              Meetings conducted
interchange hetween                  eetings
professional researchers
Increased publications       AARD-lnst.              Publications budget           90-             Budget evaluation
increased
Inter-atio.,il development   To capitalize on research               International devt.           AARD-SEC               TOR developed                 90/91            Draft TOR
elsewhere, to laprove the use    group In AARD estab-                                     Group established             90/92            Increased number
of domestic resources by more    lished to manage inter-                                                                                of collaborative
collaboraction on research          national outreach                                                                                   research ventures
projects                             throughout agency                                                                                                            7
4.   Improved            setter poliHy links             Increase dialogue between            Increased number of           AARD/MOA               Meetings on key topics        89/-             MeetIlngs conducted'
research                                           policymakers and researchers         specialized meetings to                              to be organized by the
integration                                                                             discuss agricultural                                 Office of the AARD
policy                                               Director General
Foster ui-versity links         Widen the sco,pe of agrt-            leprove university            AARD/SEC DCHE          Collaborative agreement    90/91               Revis,ed agreement
cultural research and Improve    grants scheme                                            to include jotntly
transfer of knowledge and                                                                planned and executed
researchers                                                                               research
ilenelop onisersity          AARD                    Local universities            89/-             Local university
training programs for                                selected for In-service                        inclusion in
research staff                                       training                                      training program
formulation
aq
L.)



No.  Policy title        Policy area                      Medium-term objectives              Action proposed               By                      Key steps                    Timetable       Monitoring indicators
4.   Continued                                                                                Authorize researchers to  AARD/MOA/Di;HE             Prepare Inter-                90/91            Ministerial decree
accept part-time faculty                             ministerial decree                            prepared and
posts                                               authorizing joint                              approved
appointments
Foster market awareness         Sensitivity to economic              Collaborative private-        AARD-SEC               Standard contract             90/-             Contracting
opportunities by the                 public research ventures                             procedures reviewed                           guidelines
agricultural research               encouraged
institutes increased
AARD                   Package of projects for    90/-               Research Institute
joint support developed                       blue books for
private financing
AAKD/private           Private sector repre-         90/-            Review of team
sector                 sentatives present on                         composition
research revieW teams
Foster linkages between         better linkages between              Increasing number of          AAETA/AARD             Raise expenditures for        89/90            Separate financing
research alild eXLeolSiOn       research and extension staff         farmer field days                                    farmers field days with                        for field days in
staff                                                                                                                     separate research                              research station
station financing for                         operation budget
field day participation                       requests
Incorporating extension    AARD/Rtmas               Mliti-disciplinary             89/90-          Evaluation of the
agents in on-farm                                    research proposals                            composition of the
research                                             include financing for                         multi-disciplinary
extension staff subject                       research teams in
matter specialist parti-                      project proposals         v;
cipation
Incorporating                AARD/Bimas             Separate financing             89/90-          Evaluation of the
researchers in                                       provided to the research                      operational
verification trials                                  staff for supervising                         r-search budget
vertiftcation trials                          requests
Joint preparation of          AARD/BIMAS/lIir.       Joint technical               89/90           Committee
commodity program            Gen.s                   committee formed to                           established
technical guidelines                                 prepare and review
technical guidelines
(D
ox
in



No.  Policy title        Pollcy area                        Medium-term objectives                Action proposed                By                      Key steps                      Titetable        Monttoring Indicators
5.   Research            Government  -spenditures on   To gradually  tncrease the                 A five-year targetted          MOA/MOF/Bappenas       Annual budget prepared                           Evaluation of the
financtng          operational research              level of government financing    growth of 51 *inimum per                                     to reflect real expend-                         annual budget
for agricultural research to          annum in real expend-                                  iture growth
correct the marked under-             Itures on agricultural
financing of public sector            research operational
research post 1985                    expenditures
Third-1-ary    ollaborative       Improved management and               Letter prepared to             MOA/MOF/AARD            Draft Instruction lett. r  90/91                 Draft letter
contrat ing                      accounting of third-party              authurized Improved                                    prepared
collaborative contracts               management and
sanctioned                            accounting                                             Letter ratified                 90/91            Ratified  letter
Negotiation and closing period   AARU guidelines issued              AMRD-SEC                Guidelines prepared             90/91            Guidelines issued
for third-party contracts             to limit negotiating                                   Guidelines issued              90/91
limited to three months before   period
start of fiscal year
Net proceeds from third-party    Internal AARD spot                  AARD-Res.               Audit procedures                90/91            Audit reports on
contracts to be used for              audits used to verify          Institutes              developed                                        revenue utlifza-
special maintenance and               fund utilization                                       Spot audits                     91/-             tion
repairs of the research
faciitttes
tlse of research factiities   Obtain approval for research              Prepare an Inter-              AARD/MOF                Prepare a draft decree          90/91            Draft decree
tor coomercial gain              fac ilities to retain revenue          ministerial decree                                     Obtain approval for the    90/91                 Decree ratified
gained from commercial use of    enabling retention of                                       decree                                                                    14
such faciltties                       commercial revenues by                                                                                                            W
the research Institutes
Provide guidelines on the use    Prepare agency wide                 MARD-SEC                Identify a group In the    91/92                 Comtttee force to
of research facilities for            guideltines on the use of                              Ministry to prepare such                         draft such guide-
comamercial gain                      research faciitties for                                guidelines                                       lines
com.srcial gain
Rattfy and distribute          92/93            Guideltnes issued
the guidelines
To provide stable ftnancing           Net proceeds from com-         AARD                    Conduct spot audits to          93/-             Audtt reports on
for specialized recurrent cost  mercial use of research                                      verify proper use of                             revenu- utili-
Items through the use of              factltties will be used                                proceeds                                         zattoio
research facilittes for               to finance replacement
commercial gain.                      investment for scien-
tific equipment
CD
m
O X
1')
14



- 59 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Research Fund
1.       The trained manpower of the universities in Indonesia is a research
resource which should be employed to help provide the technology needed for
the continued development of agriculture. At present shortages of funds and
facilities restrict university research efforts and have resulted in
university staff accepting teaching as their primary function. Many of the
faculty staff would welcome the opportunity to develop research programs and
to integrate these into the larger overall national research efforts.
2.       A scheme for providing grants to universities and other institutions
has already-been established by AARD. This is managed and operated jointly
with USAID as the National Commodity Research Program under a detailed set of
rules and regulations. A present the scheme is confined to maize, grain,
legumes and upland rice and is open to AARD institutes as well as the
biological science and agricultural departments of the universities. The
scheme is flexible and permits a rapid response to emerging research topics of
high priority which would not be possible through normal government
procedures.
Under the proposed project this scheme would be expanded to cover
other high priority research topics; including socio-economics, crop
diversification, post harvest technology and biotechnology; and a wider range
of commodities. The terms and conditions for the operation of the scheme
would be revised to reflect these changes and also changes in grant duration,
institution eligibility and overall management. Other criteria would remain
unchanged, e.g. sub-projects must be responsible to national development
goals, productivity oriented, capable of being completed within a set time-
frame, under the direction of competent staff, etc. The participating
universities would be encouraged to concentrate on basic and strategic
research and to enter into collaborative programs with AARD institutes and
International Research Centers.
Institution Eligibility
3.       Funds provided by the proposed project would be provided to AARD in
trust for the universities and only university departments would be eligible
to participate in the scheme.
Sub-project Time Frame and Grant Limits
4.       Under the present arrangements grants are awarded for a period of one
year. This is a constraint on long-term planning which is often essential for
conducting meaningful research, especially where farming systems are involved.
The time-frame for sub-projects would be extended to three years with fund
release, subsequent to the first year, subject to the receipt of both
financial and technical annual reports. The existing tranche system would
remain in force for payments within any one year. The upper limit for
financial support would be the equivalent of US$12,000 annually, but this
could be varied after joint consideration by AARD and the Bank and in the
light of experience.



- 60 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
Eligible Expenditures
5.       Research grant funds would be used for field plot equipment,
laboratory equipment, reagents, agricultural chemicals, field labor, travel
allowances and overheads according to existing regulations. They would not
normally be used for agricultural machinery, civil works or vehicles. Since
it is assumed that the proposed research sub-project would be part of the
university staff member's normal work program research grant funds would not
be available for the payment of supplements to salaries or consultancy fees.
Where post-graduate students are employed to work on the sub-project as part
of their study program, fellowships would be paid under the grant scheme at
the rate determined by AARD. Procurement would be according to World Bank
guidelines.
Operation and Management
6.       The present regulations provide for a coordinator and a National
Commodity Research Group (NCRG) for each of the three commodities which are
responsible for planning and technical evaluation of the proposals. The NCRG
are composed of individuals from universities, extension, planning and non-
research governmental units. The overall management of the funds and for
education and motivation (soliciting sub-projects, arranging supervision and
general public awareness programs) is the responsibility of the AARD
secretariat. A Support Unit, under a coordinator, has been set up for this
purpose.
7.       Under the proposed project a Research Grant Board would be set up,
under the chairmanship of the Secretary of AARD and with membership from AARD
institutes, university and private industry. It would be responsible for
creation of new NCRGs as necessitated by the submitted sub-project proposals.
The Board would meet at three monthly intervals and would be responsible for
allocating priorities between different commodities, topics and NCRGs. It
would also provide overall supervision and policy guidelines, and would be
responsible for final approval of sub-projects and the allocation of funds
between competing project proposals. The technical content of the proposals
would be assessed by the NCRGs, similar in constitution to those already
established which would provide the Board with recommendations for support or
rejection of the proposals. Routine administration and secretariat services
to the Board would be provided by the Support Unit. The project would finance
the costs of administration of the grant scheme up to a limit of 15% of the
value of grants made.
8.       Proposals would be prepared according to the existing standard
formats and agreements would be based on the standard contracts (or assignment
memorandum). These define the work program, responsibility for the research,
reports to be provided, schedule for reporting, approved budget and schedule
and condition for payment. These existing proforma would be adjusted to omit
USAID's right to approve the terms of Bank financed sub-projects and the right
to oversee the efficient use of Bank funds, auditing, financing and
replenishment of the fund created for supporting the research and grant
scheme. This fund would be established in a separate bank account and would
be replenished at intervals according to disbursements made and the
anticipated demand. It is estimated that an initial deposit of US$100,000
equivalent would be needed.



- 61 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
9.       Agreements would be sought at negotiations that the first five sub-
projects considered under the scheme would be provided to the Bank for review
before final approval by the Research Grant Board.



- 62 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
1.       Research Management Specialist
Location: AARD Headquarters, Pasar Minggu, Jakarta.
Duration of Assignment: Five Years from 1989/90.
Qualification: Post-graduate degree in Agriculture or related subject.
Experience: Minimum of ten years experience in the management of
agricultural research systems at both institutional and national
levels, preferably in a developing country. Knowledge of the
Indonesian language desirable.
Position: Specialist in research management techniques, policy
guidelines and implementation strategies; reporting through the
Secretary to the Director General.
Responsibilities:
(a) Assisting in the allocation, review and revision of research
priority ratings to ensure that research is responsible to sector
goals and the long-term development plans of GOI.
(b) Devising methodologies for improved cooperation between AARD,
universities and private sector institutes in the conduct of
research programs.
(c) Periodically reviewing and up-dating the Master Plan for
Agricultural Research and improving research planning.
(d) Introducing and implementing the Management Information System,
and improving accounting and auditing practices.
(e) Improving the monitoring and evaluation of research by introducing
period external reviews.
(f) Encouraging multi disciplinary approaches to research problems and
developing procedures for updating inter-institutional research
and networking arrangements with regional and international
research institutions.
(g) Advising as personnel management and development programs.
(h) Developing a National Agricultural Research System through the
integration of university staff, private sector research workers
and extension agents.
(i) Exploring alternative sources for funding research operating costs
(taxes, contractual research, generation of funds from research
facilities and services).



-63 -                                  ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
2.       Research Programming Specialist
Location: AARD Headquarters, Pasar Minggu Jakarta
Duration of Assignment: Two years from 1989/90
Qualification: Post graduate degree in Agriculture or related subject
Experience: Minimum of 10 years experience in programming research
activities.
Position: Specialist to work with the Secretary AARD and the Director
of CARP at AARD Headquarters and to the Directors of Coordinating
Centers, Research Centers and Institutes. Reporting to the Secretary.
Responsibilities:
(a) Implementing more effective research planning by relating programs
to identified priorities.
(b) Arranging procedures for updating the Master Research Plan and
Commodity Program plans (in conjunction with the Research
Management Specialist).
(c) Establishing peer review committees at research institutions.
(d) Identifying training requirements for approved research programs
and administrative tasks.
(e) Setting up procedures at the institution level for the monitoring
and evaluation of research (using both internal and external
reviews).
(f) Advising on staff training, recruitment and reallocation in
response to program needs.
(g) Promoting the participation in research networking arrangements
with other research institutions both national and international
(in conjunction with the Research Management Specialist).
3.       Civil Works Engineer
Location: AARD Headquarters, Pasar Minggu Jakarta and project
construction sites.
Duration of Assignment: Five years from 1989/90.
Qualification: Civil engineering degree.
Experience: Minimum of ten years experience in the construction of
research facilities and laying out research stations; with at least a
total of five years in developing countries.
Position: Infrastructure Specialist reponsible to the Secretary AARD.
Responsibilities:
(a) Planning the physical facilities at AARD headquarters and at
research institutions.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
(b) Supervising consultant architects and engineers in the survey and
design of research sites and the preparation of engineering
drawings and specifications.
(c) Assisting in the preparation of bidding documents, drawing up
contracts and evaluating bids.
(d) Ensuring quality control at all building sites, adherance to
contract conditions, preparing progress reports and approving
completion and final payments.
(e) Assisting in the preparation of maintenance manuals for all civil
works.
4.       Financial Manager
Location: AARD Headquarters, Pasar Minggu, Jakarta.
Duration of Assignment: Five years from 1989/90.
Qualification: Degree in accountancy, business management or financial
management.
Experience: Five years experience in business accounting/audit-
ing/financial management, preferably in a developing country.
Position: Financial specialist responsible to the Secretary AARD and
the Coordinator of CARP. Reporting to the Secretary.
Responsibilities:
(a) Providing liaison between AARD financial personnel and those in
the Departments of Finance and Agriculture responsible for
implementing projects designed to improve accounting and financial
management procedures.
(b) Arranging in-service training programs for AARD financial
personnel in new financial management procedures.
(c) Providing financial reports to donor agencies and arranging for
the transference of funds to AARD from these agencies.
(d) Coordinating sources of finance with research program requirements
and arranging project reporting, planning and preparation for
external donors.
(e) Developing procedures for the monitoring and accounting of funds
received from third-party contracts and income derived from the
use of research facilities.
(f) Advising on the preparation of financial progress reports and
analyses.



INIIONtSIA
AGRICUiIIJIAIll kSIAIICII MANAGININI PROJICI  (ARPIP 1)
I.bIe 200  CA81/'   CINII  I41R1 A61RIC RI 51ARC12I PROGiRAMMINGi
Detailed Cost lable
Ilaso Cost%                         lolals                   In,Au,,,g I'.oi,
Quatilty                     Unit Cost                  IIIUPIAHIS Millionl                                 (US$  oo
14I1'IIAIIS- 
tUnit  89/90 90/91 91192 92/93 93/94 lula d               00       89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 lot.1    8Y/90 30/91 91/92 92191 93/94 bloal
A. 8111112115                                       4                                     4       17.000    68 0                                    b& 80    44  1                                   44  I
lotaI  INVISININI COSIS1                                                                                         68 0                                   till.0    44  1                                 44. 1
II. RICURRNi COSIS
A. [I1CR  RtJUIINI BUOG(I
SAIARlIIS                                              -      -                      -35 3 0353 03513. 03530353 0  1.76  0  228 9241 4 25', 7270 8281,8  1.283 5
VIHICLi  tPIN 12OSIS                           4       4      4       4      4     20         1. boo     7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2       36 0      4 7   4. 9    5 2   5 4 5 7            25.,9
O11l1k MAINfIINANI:f                                                  -       -      -                  37.0  37. 0   37 0   37.0   37 0    185 0    24.0   25 3  26 8   28 4  300    134 5
f111C GAS PHIINE WAIIR                                 -       -      --                               33 5  33. 5   33. 5  33.5   33. 5    167.5    21 7  22 9  24 3  25 7  27 2    121 7
of Ic 111, XP(N0Il Wr                          .-130 5  130 5  130 5  1305  130. 5    652.5    84.1   89 2  94                                                                0 00 0OS 9   474 2
ILECAt IRAVII                                                         -      -       -33. 5   33. 5   33. 5   33.5 3 335    167. 5    217   22 9   24 3   25 7 27?2    121 7
Sub 101a1  111C21I RIOIIIINI liltIVt,11                                                                   594. 7 594. 7 5Y4. 7 594.7 594. 7 2. 973 5  38i. 6 40b. I 430.6  4I55. 9482 7 2. 161.53
8.  11111/I 01LYWIl'NINI 8/101.11
I. PRIJJICI AIJMINIISIRAIILIN
lI(INURARIA8                                                                                        50 0  50~ 0  50. 0  50 0  50O 0    250. 0    3?24  34 '2  36 3  38 4  40 1    1012 0
IIAIIRIAIS,                                                                                         60 0   60. 0  G0.0  600   60 0    300. 0    38.9  4 1.0  43 4  46 0  48 7   218 0 
COINS 10011P & RI PAIRS                                                                            20 0  20 0  20 0  20 020, 0    100 0    13 0   1i 7   14 5   I 5 3 l16 2                 72 7                                      n
MISC1LLANIIUS                                                                                      30 0   30.0   30 0   30.0   30    IS0. 0    195   20 5   21 7  23 0 24 3    109 0
5u1b-lotal I'IOJICI AUMIINISIRAHION I/                                                                    1600   b  0 160 0  160.0160 0    800 0   103 7  109.4 ItS 9 122 7 1300    581 8
Sub)-Iota) INCRI  DV1OP'MI1,1 BIUOGII                                                                     160.0 160.0 160. 0 160,0  160,0    800.0   103.7 109. 4  1159  122 7 1300    581 8
total RICURRINI C21751                                                                                        754.7 754.7 154 7 154 77154 7 31173.5   4819 3 bib I 546 5 518 b 612     2.743 2
tota                                                                                                           822.7 754.7 754.7 754 7 754.7 3. 841.5  533 5 516 I 546 5 578 6 612 7 2. 787 4
/a   INCR1MIENIAI COSIS
October 27.  1Y88   18 00



AGMICUIIJURAI R4FSIARCHI NANAGIM[NI Pl4fJLC4  4AI4NP 1)
)able 20O.  MIS   HANAIitNINI INFORMIIH*44   SYSIENIS /a
Detai led Cost table
Uont                      Base Costs                          lotals Inclu.ding Cot bngenc,as
Quantity                       cos 4                  IRUPIAIIS Million)                                 4US$  00
-                ~~~~~~I RUP IAIIS  ---  --- ----                                              -
unoit  89/90 90/9) 91/92 92/93 93/94 Iotal   '0004              89/90  90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 loala            89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 lUldi
I. NVtSIMNtI (0545
A  CONPUIIRI IQUji' /43                                                                           4.43  6                      -      - 4. 433 b  43 Jb                                  /35 B
S. HIS tOCAt IRAININ8G                                                                              311 4 192 1  68. 0 149 6  13.1   793 9  201 7 131 3  49 2 114 5  S9 2   556 0
lotat  lt)VISIlItH  (O545                                                                             1.444 7 492 1  68 0  149.6  73 1 4. 927 5  937 5  131 3  49 2  14445  59 2 4, 294 8
II. R41CUR14fN4 CO5IS
A. INCIRE RUItJtJ4t BU4)G14
(ONPIJIER OPEB 42(45)  /C-                              -             -       -                 85 0  lbb60  168 0 468. 0 1b8.0    755. 0   55 4 113 2 4203  426 4 432 8    548 0
StAb Iotal INICIt  ItOUIIN litULIGH)                                                                850  466.0  468 0 468 0  46810    715 0   55 4 1)3.2 120 3 426 4  432 8    548 0
Iotal RECURRIINI COSIS                                                                                   85.0  466 0 4680  460 1600IW         755 0    55.4 41132 420 3  1?b 4 432 8   548 0
Iotal 4                                                                                                 . 29. 7 358 4 236 0 3)17 6241 1 2.682 5  992.17 244 5 IbY 5 240.9  492 4 4. 839 7
/a   INCHIMiNNIAI C:USIS
/b   INClUDING 543)11WA1/4
/L   INCiUDES HAINIEIAIICt COSIS 41OR Att 4*1PIS
Oictober 27.  1988  Id 00                                                                                                                                                                                                                0



*6RICUT IO8A/ WII S1kAL3H IANAGEMLNII PHUJLCI 1A98P1' I
lable 202   IICHINICA1 ASSISIANCI  A TRAININMG /a
.ieteed Cost lable
Base Custs                                         IoutAIs      I  /ic ,,1  Io - gen-q in
Quanl i/o              ~~~~~~~~Unit  l:osl               (RUPIAHIS Mihut                                                       0.    uQol
IMUPIAHIS
Unit   89/40 40/91  91/92 92/93 93/94  total 1                 0         89/90    90/91    91/92    42/43    93/94    lu/al              81/40    90/91   941 /9        /12//I    4 1/44    I  Ii/
1.IN8LSIMINI LOS/S
I. 1OMG l1kM/I 1R11GN [A
PRlIIJICI C0t80l8/INAO                                    12      12      12     12      /2        60       17.5b8      210 8    210 8       210 8    210 8    210 8   1.054  I          /36 8    143        1 49 'I  l/51f       /b1  7      p'.oU
WI15IAR1I/ V76k1.AIMIk                                     1 2     1 2                              24       17, h68     210 8    210 8            -421 ii    /16 8    141 1.20 
Sit,  Intl1(IKG IIRM9 1181 I/N  IA                                                                                         421 6    421.6    210 8    21098    21008  1.4/5,               273 /     281/0     1411       /5/i1,    I ' I IU  10li 
2  t10NG  118R   I lAIC     I A
1:41 I  40I085RK   Sil/lCI AI/IS I                         1 2     12      12     1 2     12        60        4.980        59 8      54 8      5859 a       9 a    54 8       2490         38 8      40 I      42        4 4 4      4/, 4       /
ItINANLIAI 5I'ilIAtIsI                                     1 2     12      12     1 2     1 2       60        4.980        54. 8     5)98 a    548       54l  8     548       24008        388       40 /      42 5      4 4 4      46 4      21/ 0
5u1lo/al I//KG  1188 111A1  IA                                                                                             119.5    119.5    11945        1145t    119  ,    519/  6        77 6    81 3        85, 0      80 8      92 8      4255
.3  511081   /I0 It" 8 I 161 G   I A
8151ARLII MAKAGIMIKI S1/ [1At1S1                           It.    IS       IS     IS5    It.        75       17.040      255 6    255 6       255 6i   255 6    255 6   I1.21 80          165 /39    74 0    181 0    10'j4 I      198 4      Io o0 
Sit., I,II SOU/18   11RH9 1081  GM I A                                                                                     255 6    255 6      255 6    255t 6    255 6   [.278 0          165,9    1/4 0    /8/ 0    18114 It 148 4           410 0
4   SII081  111N  tOt;Al IA
815188RUH MANAGIlINI SIilClA[lSIS                         20     20      20      20      20       100        4.980        94 6      99 6      99 6      99 6       49 6      498 0        64 I      61 8       t0 0s    /4 0       7/ 3       15 4 ii
A6CHIItCI ION1  CIVIl WOlRKS                                        ..                     .319 8    319 8    319 8                                                           954 4      207 6    217 7    2)7  4                             652 ii
SiAt-lutal  SIitOA   /1R9 lOICAL  8A                                                                                         419 4    419 4    419 4         99 6      44J 6   1.457 4       2/2 2    285 4    2-18 2         4 0       77  3   I o    2
Siob  bia   liCtINIUIAi ASS/SIAM/A                                                                                             1.216.2  121.2 l21.005 3    6955S    695,5   4 .808  I            189 4    827 7    714 3J  51.0   4    51J2 2   3 .373  6
8. 40RE1GM TRAININKG
I.PH   IRII NG1*111                                             6     13      1 3     tO    3 5      45.5       47. 310      283 9    615 0    615 0    473  I    165 6   2 .152 6           184 3    418 3    436i     3.10 0    12 7 8   1.,516/i
2. NbC IRAI41NG                                               I10      IS     IS    7 5    25 S        50       29. 548      295.5    443 2       443 2    221 6       73 9   1. 477 4       141 8    301 5    314 4    16i 1 I    57 0   I.0/86
3  SHORl CO/IRSES                                              to      t0     10       3               33       24. 900      249.0    249.0    249 0         74 7                821.7       161 7    169 4    176 6         5, 3                 '562 I
Sob, Iota1  FORIIGW  IRAINING                                                                                                    828 3 1. 307 3 I. 307 3    769 4    239 5  4. 451 7             5137 8    884  I   42/ A1  tt6  2    184 8   3. /08  I
C.  10CA1  IRAINING
I.  lOCAL P8I  MINING/K                                        10     21      21      16    55t      735         8.939        89. 4    187. 7     187 7    143.0       49 2      651 0        580    129 3        Is        /635Iul t     138t    47/  4
2. lOCAL  MSC I11A1K/KG                                        IS     30   32.5   17 5         5       100        8. 283      124 2    248 5    289 2    145 0         41 4      828 3        80 6    164 9    I14J4 /    I/I  0        33 5      Si/3  I
3. S02 1I880ARY SCIIKNC1/COMNIUMI                                             45      45                40        4. ISO          -          -    186 8    196 8                  373 5)                          I35  /    /4/ 4)                /8 0
4. S02 L091PU11  SCItNICI/lAB                                           -45                  45,   -  90          4.4980           -         -         -   224  I   224  I    448.2                                         /7/ S    /8/ 5.    3%5Ao
5,  SI 1881K/KG                                                               25i    s0      50        125        4. 980                     -    124 5    249 0    249 0        622 5                             40  I    130 6    201 7        4h12  /
6  MOM 111G611  IHAINING                                     545    545    5 45    5 45    545    2. 725          1.35.3     737 4    737 4    737 4    737 4    737 4  3.686 9              478  I   504  /   S Jt 4    .6b4 4    59/ 2          b2 I/ 
'7. LANGUAGI  TRAINING                                        20      20      20     20      20        100       2. 490       49.8      49. 8      49 8      49 8      44 8      249 0        32 3       34 0      36 0      381        40 3      19008
S.,b-lolal  10(A/  IRAININKG                                                                                                   2.000 8  1. 223.4  [ 555.41 1.735,0  1 350 9   69 65.4            649 0    836 4  1.12 in        1.3J26 0  1 .094  I  50.1 036
total INVLSIM1NI 1.0513                                                                                                           3. 045 33. 746,8 3.86/493. 140 02.275 9  16. 125 9   1.397  1 2.55,32 2.7lb/  i 2 40tt  I  bl.I  I 11 3/ 4/
lute I                                                                                                                             3.045 33.7416_83.867 93. 140 02. 275 916. 12549   1.4976  / 2.5532 2. 767  / 2. 4061.  ,81/  1 1/5/14  I
A IIL8tMNlKAI [0./IS
Ucutui,r 27.  14911   /8 00



111110f SI A
A4WI1IUI 21165  IIiSLANI.H NAIAGtINIII PROIIJ(CI  IAUNP' 1I
Table 203  RMARC210  (IIENSION IINMAGIS /a
Uut.iIed stos fable
Un,t                          Bases  Costs                                 lotdis  Inc l..dir  Cuntiny.m,.
Qoantily               ~~~~~~~~Cost                IIlIPIAHIS PhII.ool                                          111$ '0001
Dl.,t  89/90 930/91 91192 92/93 9J/94 lotal    '0001             89/90  90/91   91/92    92/93    93/94   1.ldl            89/90 JO91'J2 '1192   9J2/93    93/94   Iw.1;.
1.INYISININI costS
A. VIIIICiIS                                                                                                          -     34 0                                   34 0            232                                     I'
S. [QIJIPNEiN-   170 0                                                                                                                   -170 0                                   1I5 I                                    1 
C. JOURNALS                                                                                                      244.5    144.5    144S    144~5    144.5    122 5    93698 3               102 5    10b 9    IIIS    5 I,10
total INV(SINLNI costs                                                                                              144 5    348A5    244.5    1445    144 5         9265    9382 23712    1025 2,06 9    III 565b~ 
II. RICUJIIRINI 110515
A  IN11121   UIIN 2111,1111)lUGIr
2tH1L24011116  I/11AIN                                                                                                  3. 6      3.6b     356       3b       14 4             2S        26b       2.7       28       lOb
IAN  LQUIP'NINI 02PtR/NAINI                                                                                             a  - - -  5  5. 5  5.5       a 5      34 0        - 5a A         fi        6 4       671    25 0
S~.d  lc,,..I N116  IlOUlINt BUDGiI                                                                                       12.1      12.1      121       121       48 4             83        a7        92        96i    351.
B.  211116  USPI litIhGLI
2. PRIOJtCI AOMNIIISIRlAIIJN
1101N.lIAtA                                        -              -      -       -      -2. 9                       2. 9      4.6       54        67      255       I9    20          33       4.9       II       192
W i I it  SIMII. 'I IS                             -      -       -      --0 6                                      0 6       2 0       23        2a        5.3     04    04          07        1. 0      I 5      40
Ix,INl\.'  tQUIP S IIlPAIRlS                       -      .       -                     -0.2I                       0.I       0. 2      0 2       0 3      0 9      0 2 02           0         02        02        071
IkA-!I                                                            --                                      0. 3      0. 3      0. 4      07       0. 9      26       02    02         03        05        0/        20
NaSCliIARiO1JS                                                                   -                        6. 5     24 6      25.5      40.4     60 9    148 2       4 2 20 0         la 7     31 0      49 4    11i].
Sub  lot..2 I'llt]l11I ADNINIS2IIAIION                                                                       10. 4     25 5     32. 0     49 0      72.6    182 5       6 7 12 7        23 2      3176      5,8 9    I 139  I                  0%
2  RitSAIlCII REA~Ll  OISSEMINAHION                                                                                                                                                                                                             co
IONOIkAIIIA                                                                                              b  -507    244.2    257 9    4221.9    59851 .413 2    39 498.6    186 7    31 It,            4815 6 1. 12', 9
O[FICI supptits                                                   -      .                               215       65.1    1215.7    1849    2695    662 7    178544 5              835      141 7    218 .7   506 ,
CON iQUJI A IIIPAIRlS                                             -                                       2 6       6I 2      0. 9     17 2     25 0      51 S      I 7 4 2          7 9      13 2      20 3      472
TRAM1                                                                                                    91 7   2153    3582. 5       04.2    86402. 157 5    595  1473    21774    46,413    7032 16 .1524
COINRACIIDOU02S1510  SERVICES                                     .             -61.4    2566    278. 3    438. 6    6428  1.552 7   4371207 2   2025    336  I   5208b 1. 209  I
NISCMLANEOUS                                              .-                                             7587    253 3    319. I   505B3    735 61 2.25. 0    !SI01225 3    231 0    38965   596 9 I. 39 38
S.b-lotal IIISLAR1CH RE11U11  OiSS11NINAIION2                                                              325.6    7706  2,.364. 4 2.165 03 3134. 4 7.763 0   2213.25210   9852 21.6b6052.54b I 5.934 9
Sub-Iotal INCIII DVI'I 61U1G61                                                                                 339.0    159.2  1. 39b.4 2.214 0 3. 207 Q 7. 945 5  219 5 539.6, 1.Oil 31 1.,98 2 2.605t I 6.014 0
lotal R1CURRLU2 C10S2S                                                                                              339.0    502.2 21. 405. 5 2. 226.2  3.219  2 7,993.9   229 5 54  9 1.020 012.701.3 2.6,14 6 b.109 b
lotal                                                                                                                483.5  2,-149.7  2. 553. 0 2. 370. 6 3.33. 5 8,920.4   313 6 185 0 I. 222.5 S1.5814 2 2.726  I 6. /61 4
/a INCRLNINIAI CUSIS
October 2/.  1956   18 004                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L



AGRlICUt 1U11A8  HIISLARCH NANA  (IkNI PROJICI  IARNIP 1I
ldble 205- U1111t INVLSINIHNI A R11S6A813 OPIHAI 111 COJSIS /a
Detailed Cost fable
Unit                              Bass Costs                                       TotAls  Incid.dng  Xn,,.q
Q...ntity                       Co..t                         (RUPIAHIS Million)11$  00
---   . -  -   - ----  -  WNUPIAIIS -  -- -  -  - -  -  -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  - -  -
Unit  89/110 910/91 91/112 92/913 913/94 loala    10001             89/110    90/91    91/912    912/93    913/94    IoWa         891/90  110/911    11/92    911293    91/914    lotla
.INVISItN&iI costs
A. v II I(CTS                                                 -                                                         68 0      85, 0    I13O 0     be 0      85 0      442 0    44  1    519 9116 8              0 ,      b   I6   315: S
o  IARN IQUIPi'NI-                                                   -                                                144.b    408.0           -    1615                  714.0    93.8    271.7                 12027                 4411  7
C. IQUIPmEiN-                                                                                                               -1.020 0            -    1955               1. 215 5        -    69143                145,4                8311.8
0. FURNIlURtL                                                                                                                    297.5          -                         29115              2035                                       203 5
- - -   -   -     -   -         .-          -                   -                   I ., VIA     I -
lotal INVESIf1Nl  LIUSIS                                                                                                  2 12. 51 1810. 5    136. 0    425j0       850   2. 6b9. 0   137 11 1.233 4        116.8    J1it,2      66  I  1, 850 k,
II  Ri)CUIRRLNI CIISIS
A. iNCIIL 800111 1N 01 UDII
VIHIICtI  lPI11/MAI11 -A                                                                                            7.2      14.4      28. 8     3. 0      45,0       1314       41        118      206b      27 1      J15. ,      911a
FARM IQIIIPMNII4  O'tR/HAIMI                             .       -14.4                                                       45I    50 2         664       664       242 5       9 J      308       36 0      50 0      5i21.    178 5
lAB  IQUiPMINI OP'LR/MAINI                               .       -                                                     -     42.       SI 5  0   60.7      b607      21491                2910      36. 5     453 7     48 0      1511 2
BtDG MAINIINANCL                                                                                                            -              -      I  0     22 2        37 2                   -               1I 4       i119       211 3
S.b~-lotla  INCH)  IIOUliNt BOUGHI                                                                                     21.6    102.0    130.0    178.1        1114.3     I,b20    140        6116      93 I    134 2    15I40         46,48
B.  INCIIL DYPI BUDGIE61
I. PROJLCI AONINISIRIA[ION
HONO.11RARI                                                                                                    44.5      92. 0    146 2    2102    283.2          /lb I   28.11       629    106. 0    161 I.   2301 7        510  I                    0
11INTO)1 (ND                                                                                                       -         -         -*     01        01          02                                     0 1       01          02                     .
DIfICI  supptiIs                                                                                               21.3      42 7      69 2      986    1344         366.2    13 8       2112       530  I  1   5 6    10911      277 7
CON LQUIP' A RLI'AIRlS                                                                                          0 .6      1 .0      I .?      2 .3      3.0         8.6     0 4        07        12        1 8       24          65.
IIIAVE)                                                                                                        215       44.6      71.5    102.8      139.2      3796    1 311       305       5) 8       7110    1134        288. 7
CUNIIIACII  OU001I10   SIRVICLS                                                                                10.3      20.I    3 2.3       46.5      62.6      171 8       6 7      13 7      23 4      3 5 6.0  8          130 2
NiscELLANLOIIS                                       -                                                         4 1.7     865 b    125.5    179.1    244.1        676.9    27. 0      5`11       908a    137 J    1918 I         12 4
S.b-loala  PR)OJECT ADIIINISIIIAI ION                                                                             1399    286.9    446.4    639.6          h8666 2. 37914   110 7    11162    323. 4    491011    704b 6    .805, 8
2. OPERAIIONAL )iSLIARCII
IIONORARIAI                                                                                                   304.4    683.7    148 0  1.338 331.1984.6S .3091.0   1917.4    467 7    687 4  1.0OblI 1,1.17 0  4. 03b,
RINI 0f11A80                                                                                                    I6        3.3       5a        a9       126        322        1 0       23        42        6,8      101        246b
RLSEANLIH MAIL.IIALS                                                                                          170. 5    3891 I 461 7    65b.7    938.2  2,1ib.2   110 6    266  I   334 2   503  3    7L- I3   1. 975 4
CON 1QUI S RtPAfRS                                                                 .       -       .           39.5      89 6    113.9    164 4       2341     41 5    25 6          61 3      82 5    126 0    181 119       4115 3
IRAVEt                                                                             -                          147,0    334.1    425~4    612.8    874.3 2 2393.6    95.3    228.6    308.5b   471 0    112 3   1. 815 7
CONRACILII) OUISIDC  S111V11C1S                                                                                60.1    1359    198 1    292.7    438.6 1 1125.4    39 0              1129    143 4    2241J   .151,1          851', ,
NISCELIANLOUS                                                                       -                         139.5    317.4    425.2    6167    8821I2. 3809    90. 5    217 0    307 8    47?  6    *I5 7   1.803 6
Sub-Ioala  0l'l11AIIONAi LS81A18C14                                                                              862.6  1. 953. I 2. 578. I 3, 740. 5 5. 364. 514. 498.8  559 31 1335.81. 868 0 2. 871 2 4. 162 4 10 91116-
Sub totalIN18.1t DVI'I BUDGET                                                                                      1, 002. 5 2,240.0 3,024.5 4, 380. 1 6. 2:61.1I16. 878 2  650 0. b,32. 0 2. 1111. 4 3.36   I 'I,6   11b 12. 802.4
lotal IILCUIIIINI 0515                                                                                                 1,024. 1 2.342 0 J. 154. 5 4,5S58. 2 6.425.4  17, 504. 2  664 0 1.60   6 2. 284 5 3. 49111      5.22091 13. 267  J 3
1,236.6 4,152.5 3. 290. 54.983.2 6.510 420.173 2   801 912. 83  0 2. 381 33. 81255) . 2870 15'.IIII 
LnU1n
/a INCRLLNLNIAI 1.1151
October 27. 1988 18 00



-70-                                                        ANNEX 5
Tab le 6
C.. 
_,    ~        0             0. ,     
-.            C.0  .  ,          n    ,  
O0  ,         Cd              'C.              .' .0. 
Cc    ~           . C           
e ~      ~       C     ' ,C'  r    
e     "            CC                 0'3 'l    . ,
2 =                       O   C  
U,tU.U      -U.   ,          t          io
C  c
0 
CO ~      ~      ,,         Z.0.,              >     a 
S v 11 a -                                            C.  
0 .. .. ..~~~~~~~



INDMlh;IA
AGIICUIIU11At RtSIARCH HtNAGINAONI  PROJECI IAIMP 11
lable 206. A6l CIVII WORKS /a
Dolailed Cost (able
Urn6                       Base Cosis                            lolals Incl.dng Co,.1,rqLnM.e%
Quantily                     Cost                    IRUPIAtHS Milioni                                   IUSS  0001
- -           ~~~~IRUIPIAIIS   -           -
Unsi   89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 loll   0001           89/90  90/91   91/92   92/93  93/94 lolal    89/90  90/91   91/92  92/93 93/94 lulal
I  INVLSINIl4I COSI0
A. AARW SICIIIAIIAI                                   -      -                                  394 4   514 3   328 1           -        l,36.8  268 0   582 3   24/ 3                    1.091 b
H  AGRICUIIURAI ECOIINOICS                      -         -             -                            -   349.2   234 9          -      -   584 1        -   249.7   177 0                   426 7
C. FOOD CIIOPS PuSI HiAIVISI                       -      -                      .                        93.          -                    93               bi 9         -                  bb '
0. HORIICUIIUlf POSI HARVISI                       -         -      -             -                               2040   136 0             340 0                 -   153.7 108 0            2bl 7
f. 1NLAND I ISFItLILS                              -      -                       -                      514.5 1, 255. S   914.4 286. b 2.970.0             Jb7 9   94. I  /2b 2 239 0 2. 219 3
I  NARINF IISHINIIS                            -      -      -             -      -6389   90.1   146.2                          -        1.591 2  356 2   648 0   110 2                   1 1:4 4
6  tSIAIL CROPS HIOILCIINOLUGY                     -         -      -                                         -   234 6   ISb 4        -   391.0        -             17b 8 124 2           lot 0
lol IlVtS1N1LI CUSIS                                                                               933 3 2.Gt7. 62.403.3 1. 206. 8 285 6 7.b0h b  634 2 1. 914 9 1.11 I I6 8 4 239 0 S.SJ/ 7
total                                                                                               933 3 2.b77.562.403.3 1206 t8 285 6  7.056   634. 21.914 9 1. 811 1 98 4 239 0  .'t, 77
/a  INC IIINIAI COSIS
October 27. 1988 1800
I-.
F,
gXl



ACRICIIIIINAI VI IA:  AWAGJIMSINIPOIIARP1
table 207 CINILH IOR AGRIICUIIURAI LCONIONiCS /a
Oul..iled Cost table
filse Costs                       Io1al, lwi~d,nj UL,i..Lsy  ,.
Qu.antity                    Ilnil Cost                 (RUPIAHIS NilIG,oo                                IUS$  00
IIIIIPIAIIS-                                        -         -
Uinit  89/90 90191 91/92 92/93 Y3/94 lolal              00       89/90 90/91 91192 92/93 93/94 lolal              89/90 90191 91/Y2 92/9.3 Y3/!94 lolad
A. VItiItcICs                                                                              3               17.000        -                   I 0             SI 0                           31 9           31/ 'I
B. 1*A1 tQUiPNINI                                                            - -    --                                           -110.0        -            170 0                  121 0                  121 0)
C. IUIINIIURI                                                                                                              119. 0                          119. 0       - 1 4                            II14
Iotal INVESINI.NI 113515                                                                                                       119.0  110 0  51 0              340.0            913V4  121 0  SI 9           240 A
1I IIicuIIININ Collis
A  IN1R1.1  IIIJIIINI IIULGti
VIlIICII  UllIl/MAIFII                                                         3      3       Ii       1. 800                           5. 4    54      IU                              4 1    43    a3
18A1 IQUP 0IPI1/IIAINI                                   -                                -                         -a-                   5   B.5     iI0                               b 4    b7 1  II
I-AllUIIJlG NAINItIIANIIC                                                                                                              14.4   14 4      288                            11 0   II b  22 b
Sub  bloal INCiC  RIliNIll  IIUUGtI-                                                                                                    28.3  28.3       59.b                           21.41  22 b  44.0
a INCIIL oVPI OIIIIGLi
I  IIROJICI AUDNINISIRAIIJON
IIONORlAIIA                                                         -      -       .                          2 8    5?7   9  1   13.1   17 0       417       18    3 9    bS   1to1   139   3b2
ofI I CL  SUPPI,IS                                                  -              -                          0. 4   0. 9    1 3    I 8    2.4       6 8      0 3   0 9   0 9    I 4    I 9    5. I
CONS t91UI1  A RILPAIR                                                                                        0. I      -   0 I   0 2   0.3          0 1      0 I           0 I   0 2   0 2   0 5
IRAVEI                                                                                                       0.8a   1.9b   296   3. 7   4 9         1396     0 5    I I    1 9    28a   40   103                                                 -
MISCLi IANtIOUS                                                     -                     -0 9    I 8    2. 9    4. 2    5.4                        15 2      0 6    1 2   2 1   3 2    4 4   It
S.b-IolaI  PRlOJICI ADIIINISIRAIIONI                                                                             5 0   10 0   16 0  23 0  30 0          84.0     3 2   6 8   11 9   1l 7  24 4  63 8
~.OPLRAIIDINAt RESEARCHI /b
HIONIORARIA                                          -       -      -                     -7. 9   17.8   19 0  26.1  37. 5    10&.3                           5 I  12 2   13.8  20  1  306   81 7
R(N1 Of LAND                                                                                                  0.4    0. 9    0. 9    1 3    18 a      .3      0 3    096   0 7    1 0    IS    40
RESEARCHI 881(18RIA                                                           -S                              3 I   89    7 4   10. 2   14.6        42 2      2 0   4 7   5 4    7.8    I 81  31 7
CONS LOUIP'/RPAIRlS-                                                       .                                  0.I   0.I   0  1    0.1I   0. 2        0.96     0 1    0 1    0 1    0 1    02    04
l89a-                                                                     -       -                        283  64.1  68.3  94.2 135.3    390.2    18 3  43 8   49 5   72 4110.2 2944
CUIISIRACIID VuISIDI SIIIVICES                                                                               S       .1   182   19. 4  28. 8  38.5    111. 0  5 3   12 4   14 0  20.5   31.?2  83 5
NISCILLAIIIOUS                                       -              .L. 11  25. 026. 7  36.8  52 9    1525                                                    7 2  1? I  19 3  28 2   42.9  114 7
Smb-lotal OPiIIAIIOI1LA R1(S1ARC1  /b                                                                          59.0  133.0 141. 8 195.5 280.8    810 I   38 3  91 0 102 8 ISO  I 228 4 1310 b
Sub-total INCRL DVPI BUDOG[f                                                                                        64.0 143 0 157.81 218.5 310 8   894  I   41 5  97 8 114 4 167 a 252 81 674 3
loWa  RLCUIIRINI COSIS                                                                                                  64 0 143 0 151 B 249 8 339 I   95  7   41 5  97 8 114 4 18Y 2 215 4 718 3
lotla I                                                                                                                    4 0 262.0 327.8 297.8 339  I1 .290 1   41 5 119 2 235 3 2271I 275 4 958 b
/a   INItCIFN IA! CUSIS
,b  INluIIuis 11110                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L
0Octotxr 21. 1988 IS 00



AtNIjRlI7II 111RA   l RIAM(C31  ANAAGI HI WIPROJIC I  IANNP 11
lable 208. (StAll CROPS    BIOILCIINOIOGY. BOGOR /a
Detailed C..st fable
Biase Costs                       ltids  lncI.ding Continyen.cies
Q.a.anl.y                     Unit Cu.si                IRUPIA31S Millison)                               lOSS  O
- INROPIAHS             - -  - -  - -  -- -  -  - -  -     --     -  - -     - -
Unit  89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 lutal                '0001      89/90 90191 91/92 92/93 93/94 lotal  89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 bloal
A. VIIICLiS                                        -      -       3      -3                     11.000                 -    1.0               -  51 0         -           b 3                   34.3
B   FURNIIURt                                      -                                                                              25. 5          25 5                            1 9,           I  Idii
C. IAB &QUJIPtNLiI-                                               -  -                                  -                255.0        -  -      255b0         -         181 5                  181. 5
lotaLl INV(SIHtbI COSIS- 306.0  25.5                                                                                                            - 331.5                   217 8   19li           237 4
II. 1,11CURR1,11 COS.IS
A.  I NLRL ROUI I41 Mt  i01)itI
VIIIICIt OPiR/MAINI                                  3       3      3       3     12        1. 800             5.4  ,4 5.4      4    b 4   21, .              3 7    3 9    4 I   4 3   lb 9
IAN1 (QUIP OPIIl/IAINI                       -       -       -      -       -      -                      -       -      -  12.83  12. 8  2556                               91.   lOb   198a
builiUG IIAINI                              -                                      -                                            -     .8    5 a                                    4 7    4 1
S.   lotla  INCRL  IIIUIINI  BOOGII                                                                               5.4    5.4   18.2  24.0  53,0             - 3.7    3 9   13.7   19 1  40 3
II INCRI DEVI OUDGI I
I  (li/I 1181 131A  Rb SIANCH
5AII   MAIIIRIAIS                                                                           34. 0   34.0   34.0   34.0  170. 0306. 0    22.0   23.2   24 6.  26  I 131.9 233 9
OPb a I jllA11IUINA1 RI SEARCII                                                                34.0   34 0   34.0   34.0  170.0  305 0    22. 0   23.2   24.6   261.I131 9 233Y
,,, l,i..I  I1hI;II,t IVI BUIJIAI                                                                       34. 0   34 0   34.0  34.0  170.0 305 0    22. 0   23.2   24 6   2b1 1 I37 9 233]9                                                  1
luIjI  4LL3URRINI tOSIS                                                                                        34.0   39 4   39.4   52.2  194.0 359 0    22.0   2b.9   28 5   39 8  57 0 274 2
[loai                                                                                                           34.0   39.4 34541  77.7  194.0 190 5    22.0   26 9246. 2   59Y4  1157 0 b11b
/a INCR(MN[IA( COSIS
O3ctobier 27. 1988 l8: 00
(D



INUONt S IA
ACNIICUI IURAt IKSLAlCH iANAGIltNI PROUJCI  IARiNP 11
dble 209   IOOD CUOPS    POSI HAIlRVSI  IlCIIPOlOGY.  SUIIANANDI /a
Detdiled Cost lable
Unit                     Base Costs                          loldls  Incl.ding Conitnige1cies
Q..,anl  I y                      C0st                  IRUPIAHS Nell oni                                  (IUS$  0001
-        - - -     IIIUPIAHS         -  - -             -        -
Unit   89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93  93/94  Ioi,l              0001       89/90 90/91 91/92  92/93 93/94  lola             89/90 90/91  91/92 92/93 93/94  lot.1
1. INVtSIIPtNI CUSIS
A   FURNIIURl                                                                                                            1    6  -                       3  -  -3  -  I  ii  9 3                 -       9 3
lotal INVESIHtNI COSIS                                                                                                       13 6          _                135 6             93                             9 3
II. RilCUINNltNI CUSIS
A.  .NCII  iWUiINL BUOQI
BUILDING MAINItNANCE                                       -              -       -                                          I 3    1. 3    13    3 9                        09      I 0    1 0    3 0
Sub  lotal INl:RE NOUIINt BUUGtl                                                                                                 13    1 3    13    3 9                         0 9    10    1 0    J 0
B   INCiE Ol VI Bl113GI I
I. OPtiAIIUNAI RISIAHl.l  /b
BiSIANUII IAIIRIAIS                                                                    -17 0   17 0   1/ 0  Sl                                     02 *   13 0   13 8  39  1
Sut  loll OPikAiIONA;i Wil.LARCII /b                                                                                        17 0   17 0   17 0  5i 0                        12 3   13 0   13 tl  J9 I
Sob  lotal I11NUE DEVI IIUUGEI                                                                                             -   17.0   17 0   17 0  Sl 0                        12 3   13 0   IJ 8  39  1
lolal RLCURINI L.USIS                                                                                                           -   18.3   18 3   18 3  b4 9             -           IJ2   14 0   14 8  42  1
Ilota                                                                                                                         1 3 13t5  _3 1    8.3  _183  5t85                9 3 _13_2   14_0   14 8 _      I 4
/a INC1CRtNiIAI COSIS
lb   INCLUDES RR1
October 27.  198i   18 00
0 i
ID 



INIIDINI SI A
AGRII;JLIRAI RIStARLI MMANAIHlli  PROJfIlIARMP 1W 
lable 210  FISIlIRItS    RICA(Nl        H 114140ISHEIIINS.  SUKAPMANDII I
Detailed Cost fable
Base Costs                           loldls In.clu.ding Conltnyencies
QanSmIIy                     Un,it W~sI                  INUPI ANS M. II wnl                                   (US$  00
- ~  IIIIPIAIIS        --   - -  - -  - - -  -   -    
Unit  893/90 110/91 91/92 92/113 913194 lolal           '0001      811/90 90/91 91/92   92/93  113/94 Iut.1           89/90 90/91 91/92 92/933 93/94 lIuII
I  INV[S1MLNI COdIS
A   NLIIICILS                                                      2                             2       17.000            34. 0                              34 0            23 I                             1 
B. FARM kQU1IIM*NI                                                                                                             - --         85. 0       -     85 0                           I3 2             b32
C. tAB LQUIPMINI                                            -                                                                  -           340 0             340 0                          2153 0           253 0
D. FURNIJURI                                                -       -                                                                      238,0            238.0                           182 9             18?29
lotal INVLSIMIzNI COSIS                                                                                                        34. 0      -   663 0         - 6970               23 1        -499 1              5723
li. RlLCURI1NLI ClISIS
A. INCILI WIOt IlINI BIIDI IG
VLIICLIt 01llIl/11,1N11,1                                     2      2       2      2       8        1. 800            3.6    3.6f       3.6    J4.6     14 4             2.5    2 6    221   2 8         10 6
[ANN [QUII1MINI OPIR/MAINI                             -                     -      -             --       -                            8 5     8 5      17 0                            6 4    6?7      13.1
lAB tQUIPIMLNI tPLR'/MAINI                                                                                                             1    - I  0   12 0  34 0                         12.8   13 4      26 2
BLDG MAINI[NANCE                                                                                                                           -  56.8       56.8                               - '457       45 7
BLDG MAINILNANCL  IPLONDSI  lb                                        -      .              --                                         82 5,  82 5    165 0                             62.9  b6 4    129 3
Sub~ lotla  INI:NI ROUIINI HtlUGI.I                                                                                        3. 6   3.6 t    I6  168.&4    281.2                2 b    2.6   84 8  135)2    2 25 0
B. INCRIE IVPI BtiJIGII
I PROJICI ADHIlNISIIIAIII3N
HONORARIA                                                                                -08    2. 7                       30        43    57        lb5       0 5     1.1    2.2    3.3    46b       12 5
OIIICI. SIIPIIILS                                                                                           05    1. 6     17        25    33         116      0 3    II    ?1        1.9    2 7       727
IIIAVLt                                                                                                     07    2 5      27       40    5.2        IS I    05S    1. 7    2 0    J I   4 2          11 4                       ULn
MISCLtIANLOUS                                                                                               I    0    3 2  36        5~2    68       19a       0 6    2.2    2.6b   4. 0    5 5       1411
Sub-Total PIIJtJl  ALOMINISIRAIION                                                                             3.0   10 0 1II0        160   21 0       61 0       I 1    68. 8.B0   12 3   17 I    46.1
2  OPLRAIIONMAI NLS[ARCII
HONORARIA                                                                                                  10 I  23 I  3114        59,8  84 8    2 172 2       b 5)  it)8  28 6  46 0  6II.I    166 0
RENI Of IAND-                                                            -       -      -                   01I   0 1      0.2       030.4            II1    0 1    0 1    0 1    0. 20  3             0 8
REISLACHII  MAILRIAIS                                             -                                        10.8   24. 742.2        640   907    232.4          7. 0   16.9   30.5!  411.0  736b   127 I
CON FQIII IT RtPAIRS                                                                                        0 7    1 8    3         4 7   67         17 0     0 5    I 2    2 2   3. 6   5 4          13 0
IRAYLL-                                                                                                     84   19 5 332          s0.4 71.5    11130         5. 4   13 3   24 I  38.7  5)8.3    1311.9
CONRACIED OUIISIOL SIRVICLS                                                                                 25    5 8     9 A       148   21 0      53 9       I 6    4 0    7 1II1.3   17 0         41 I
MISCEILANLOIJS                                                    -.                                        4,4   10 0 19. I    26,0 369             96.4      2 9    6.8   13.8   19 9   29 9       23.4
Sub-lotal OPLRAI 10NAI R1SLANCI3                                                                              37 0  85 0 147,0    2200O 312 0   801.0    24,0  58. I 106.5  1689 25j3 7   611l2
Sub-loIal INLRL  IIVPI BUIJGiL                                                                                    400   95j01580    236 0333.0    862.0    259Y  65.0  1145  18 1.1 2708    151I3
lotal RtCUNRRNI UOSIS                                                                                                  40 0  98 6  161.6   347. 6501.4  1 .14912    2511   67 4  117.1 20  9 4051 9    1182 
boIa                                                                                                                    4100  132 6  fbI 6 1.010 650 1.4  1.8462    25.9  90.6  117 I  b65.0 405j9  1. 404 S
/aINRINMiNiAI Ltp),IS
/b   POND MAINIINANCEIlOll CONCRI1 II ANIt Al NS5 500 PIN SQJUANL MIILII . I A,. AND PONDS Al RS 1500 PIll SQUARI MiliN . P A
October 21. lb 1118 I 00



AG11ICUI IUHAt IfSIARCHI HANAGIIIINI PROJICI IAR1P1W I
lable 211 MARlINI IISHIRIRS. JAKARIA /a
Detailed Cost table
Base Costs                          lotals tncl.dinyU LntlnUencius
Quantity                     Unit Co,t                  IRIUPIAtHS Hillioni                                 1US$'00
-----     ----         ~ ~~IRUPIAHIS  -          - - - - -  -  - - -  -
Unit  89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 bloal                0001      89/90 90191 91/92 92/93 93/94 lotal              89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 total
IINVLSIHINI COStS
A  VtIHItCIS                                                 .       I                             I      1I. 000            17 0                            12 0            11 6                            ii I
8. tAB FQUIPH[NI                                                                                                         -340.0         -      -            340 0         -231 4        -       -231 4
C. IURIIIIIIII                                                                                                                  - IS 30                -    t3 0                   ItO  9                   Ito 9
lotal INVISIRINI LOSt9                                                                                                         3S0130'I024     i93,  
11  RICURRINI COSIS
A. INCRtE RAtIiINE tIUDGLH
VLHICLE  tPIRt/MAtNt                                                           I      I      4        1.800         -    Ia 8   Ia8     1.a    t 8       72              I 2    I 3       4    t 4       9) 3
BUIlDING IIAINItNANCL                                                      -                     - --                              -284   28 4          9b8                            21b 22 9         44 S
JAB EQUIP tJPER/NAINI                                                  -                                                       1         7 0 17i0   17 0  St0                  12 2 12 8   13 4         38 4
S.k lotal INC111  RtlltINtt  HI IUtIld I                                                                                     I8   188472 47 2             ttbO                ? 2 139   398 37 7            88 2
B.  tIlCId  ORPI BUIULII
I. P'NtJtCt A6NINI9IRAIIUNI
HONOkARIA                                                                                                     II    23    3.6    92    6 8          1UO       07    1 b 26          40    99S        144
ofl I I(  SUPItP  It S                                                                                        1. 0   T22    39    90    6 4         18t       06    I 5 29           I8    9 2       Itt7
11RAV11                                                                                                       1 3    3.0    4.6    66    8 6        241       08     2t 1 33        St    7 0        18 3
HISCIIIAtNIOUS0                                                                                              0 6     16    23    32    4 2          tt9       04      1 II   I7 29    3 4             9 0                                 .
subj I0t41 I1tt1JtCt A0IMINISIIIAIII3N                                                                           4.0 9Ut    140200 2b0                  131       26     b 62 tt 19,4 21 1              999
2. OPIIIAtIJAtlA  RIISIA81CH1
HIONORtARIA                                                                                                  1         4 031 9  34 046 8I  67 t    193 8      91t21 8  24 7  360   4 7    t4t. 2
RINI1 Of1 18A11                                                                                              0.? 2 04    0. 4    0         0 8       23       0Ut    03     03    04    0/              2  
RIISLARlCII NAIIRIAIS                                                                                       27 462 4  66 491 6 131 2    379 0    I  8  42 7  481I70 2 106 9    2 8'.2
CONI EQUI & RtPAIRIS                                                                                         3 .4    7.6    8 III.2   16 I    464            22    92       99    86   13 1    34 9
IRA*811                                                                                                     I86424 451 62.2  89 1    2574                        21  29 0327   478 72 b    19427
CONI14ACICIJ OUtJSIDt SIRVICIS                                                                               76 1 73   189299 3695    1094                    49 i 18   134 1 19929 6               /93 
NISCIILIAN[1OUS                                                                                             118   270   287   39 7 5 97    16139              77   1895208   304 46 0    123 3
Sub~-IoIak tiPIRAIIONAI  RIISIARCHI                                                                             83 0 189 0 201 2 277 5 397 51. 148 2    53 8 129 3145 7 212 9 323 I   864 8
Sub-Iotal IN1ClI OVPI BUJOGi                                                                                      87 0198.1 219.2297  5423.5 1.221 3    96 41359  199392283 344 2    920]J
lotal RECURRINI 03SIS                                                                                                   87. 0199 9 234 0 344 74170.7  1. 336 3   96 4 136 7 169 421,41I 381 9 1. 008 
Iota I                                                                                                                   87 0556. 9387 0344 7470 71846  3    5bb4379 7280 32,4I J81 9 131,?4
/a   INCHlINIAtllA     C0%t", 
Uctulter 22.  1988   Ill 00



INUCOILSIA
AGRtICUI IUHAt RESIARCHI MANAGININI PR10.t1:   IARMP If
lablo 212, LOASIAL A9QUAC:IUIIURE MARIAS /a
Detailed Cost table
base Costs                       totals Incl.d-yg C-I.ing.inie..
Quanti Iy                     Unit Cost                111UPIAhIS NIIII oni                             1US$ .0001
imilt'IAlts             -
Unit  89/90 901/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 lotal              '0001      89/90 90/S1 91/92 92/91 93/94 lotal  89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 931/94 lulal
A. VIllItLItS                                                       2                             2       17.000             34 0                         34.0             23. 1                        2:11 
lutal INVISIMIINI COStS                                                                                                         34 0                          34 0            23 I                          2.4  1
II. 111cu111111   COStS
A. INCRtE RO131IINI BUU1)14
VIIIICIt 01WIR/MAINI                                    -      2       2      2       2      8        1.800              36    36    3 6    36b   14 4                 25    2 6    2 7    2 8   lO b
1,,tidl INC1:11  ROliUINE 81U13G1I                                                                                        36    3b    lb    3 (   14 4                  2.     2 6    2 2    2 8   106
8   IN44:R1  DIV l1tJ6lGH
I  P11O3itI1 AUIIINISIRAIII]N
110N131AN11A                                                                      -0 6    1.6   2.2    3.1   4 4   11.9                                    0.4    1.1    1 b   2 4   3.6    9 0
131114:  supI'LIIS                                                                                           0. 3   0I8I 12    1.8    2 3   6 4            0 2   0 5   0.9    I 4    1 9   4 9
IlIAVEt                                                                           -      -                     6    1.4    2,0    28    40  10 8           0.4    10    IS5     2?       33    8 2
1415C:118AN01OU                                                                                              0 5    I.2    16    23    3.3    8.9          0,3    0,8       ?2    1 8    2.7    6.2
Sut bloat  I'1111J111 ADMIINISI11AHII3                                                                           2 0    S.0    70   100   140   38 0           1.3    3 4   5 I   2 7   11.4  28 9 
2. OPIIRAiIUJAt 11[SLARICH
IIUNURARIA                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10.6   24.I  25,8   339   51.0  145 4  69   16.5!  1872  26 I  4 1.6  1097 2
RiSE1AN41H NAIERIAiS                                                                                         I183  4 15   44.5   584   87,92506           11.9 284   32.?   44 8   713 188 5
CON 10Q11    Al RPAIR4                                                                                       0 1    01I   01I   02    03    0 8            01    01    0 1    0 2    02    0 6I
TRAVEL                                                                                                       95 2 1.623.2304 45.8130 !                     6.2   148   lb.8  23 4   37.3  98 4
CONIRACIID IIIIISIDI SEIRVICiS                                                                                1.9    4.3    4.6    6 I   92   26 I         1.2    29    3.3    4 7   75   19 6
NIS4:LELANIOUS                                                                            -7.6   17.4   18.6  24.4   36.8  1048                            4.9   it.9   13.5   18 7   299   78 8
Sub-total OPER1AIIONAt RES:18ARCH                                                                               480  109.0  116.8  153.4 231 0658 2    31.1  74.5  84.6  117 7 182.8 495.7
Sub-totat  IN4:RE DIV BUDGAI                                                                                       50.0114,0123.8 163 4245.0 696 2    32.4   78 0  892  125 4199 1524b
Total RECURRINI  COStS                                                                                                  50 0 117, 6 127 4 167. 0 248 6 7 10. 6    32 4  80 4  92 3 128 I 202 0 535 2
Total                                                                                                                     50.0  151 6 127.41167_ 0248 6 744 6    32.4  103 6  92 3 128  1 202 0 558 3
/a INCRALiNIAL 4:USIS
October 27. 19818  18 00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
l-tT
r_A1:x



AGIlICUIJI 10Ai ItSIARCHI MANAGEM[NI PRIOJtCI  (AR*P1)1'I
P.'oject Ci.p~4on,.nts by Yea,
lotls  I-,dk.d~g Cuntngsncmm~                                   Totals I nclditng Co,,trnyenc,s~
RiPI U'AHtS PiliIIion)                                                iUS$ 1000l
89/90    90191       91/92      92/93      93/94      lotal       89/90    90/91    91/92        92/93      93/94      Iotal
A  CNIIIIR f0R AGNICUIIURAL N4154ANCH P14OGIAMNING              885 6      856 1      90 1I    960 5.  1.017l I  4,b27 0           533 5,   516  I    546 5        578 6      612 7  2. 787 4
8  MANAGLM[I       INI A401141  Nl 51Y1114S                  1. 647 8     4 05 9      281 4      400 0      318 8   3. 054 0      992 7   244 5)    169 5         240 9       192 I   .839 7
C   ILCHNIICAL  ASSISIANCE AIRA14N14N14                       3. 280 4   4.238 3  4.593 6  3 .994 9   3.006. 5  19. 113 7   1. 976  I 2. 553 2  2 .767 3  2 .406 6   1 .811 I 11. 514 3
D  RI St A8IIIX 711NS0 I ON   I NAGE                            520 6   I.303 2   I. 863 3  J3.01 Oi5  4.525 4 11.224 0            313 6   785 0   I. 122 5   I. 8114 2  2. 721, I  6. 71,14
E. UNIIVERSIIV R41StARC13  GRANI                                 68 7      343 6       969 3    969.,3       969  I  3.320 0        41 4    207 0       583 9      583 9      583 8   2.000 0
I. OI11.R INIVISIMINI A I4ISI.A1CH1 OP1L1AIING COSIS          1. 331 2  4.?06  I  J.1953 0  b. 328 7  S.,776 525.,095 4            801. 92.835 0   2. 381 3  3.812 5  5.,287 0  IS. 117 7
G  CIVIL  WORKS11                                             1.052 8   3. 178 7  3, 006 5   1.590 9         396 8   9.225 7       634 2 1. 914 9   1. 811 I    958 4         239 0  5557 7
IH. CCIIIlt  I0ON AGiIICUtlUNAt ltCUNUMII.S                      68. 9     2975t       390. 6     377. 1     457.2   1. 591 3       4 V.5    179 2      235. 3     227 I    275 4        9518 1,
I .ESIAI1  CROPS IJIOILCIIHOICIIY                                36. 6      44 7      408.8        98 5     260O6       849 2       22.0      26 9      246 2       59 4      157 0      511 6
J1. lOUD CROPS P1351 HARVESI IECIIO1OLOGY                            -       15,4       22 0      '23 3       24 6       85i 3                 9.3       13. 2      14 0       14 8       SI 4
INIAND*11  FISHIRIIIS                                           43 I       150 4      194 3   1. 270 0      1,738  2. 331 5        25 9      90 6      117 I    765 0        405 9   I1.404 5
I ..MARINEI~ ISHILliLS                                           93 6      6i30 3     4165 3     438 4      b,34.0  2.261 7         56. 4    379. 7     280 3      264 I    381 9   1.3J62 4
N  COASIAt AQuACIHIUR 08                                         53 8       Ill 9      153 2     212 Ii    335i.3       826 8       32 4    103 6        92 3 .  128  I    202 0         558s 3
lolal PRojicI COSIS                                             9.083  I 16.342 7 17.208 4  19,6b75  7 21.J"58 83.705 7  5. 471 7 9.845 0 10. 366 5  11.852 8 12,889 0 50. 425  I
OIkIobur 27. 1988 18 00
03
co



- ' - ' 2-n-'- 0002   . - 'C          oC0or'--
* .3-' n0o0o---0 0.2' OOLAflrflCrtCOO.-.
*  **'       -'                             0 'c .    nc-C-C, Na-a'' - .              000RLC
-  .-0-r                    , --             ' n   - Z-aOfl.r"OC,    . = C            -  ,-   0
* -=   t0.A0    0 '-0                    t   0 0
-n                  fl'2 . -   *fl    fl* - Ofi 0 OtO  ttztO  - .             flO    S   0
0  0                       "X - Ct  0'  fltfl2 -,  *       O              .               'C  -
- a'-' cc            C  -.  a. an. -e  '-os'  n  '.o.'-va,"---    *u.   C = aroso
.',o en On .u,o Wao taN. '0.03 S'..tt ZOaflO.C - -
o   --a            -n         a   -flu  ...n'n''-.a       C-S--.rc
0  00   -             t-0  .   CO  'Ce -"C  *-,fl   Sa.a. 0a.n-0.0
S  u,C   -             -   , mfbC-ffl    'Zr"-'  C-    InCOnb.-                        0
n   - a.-             a..   'I,'-   - **t-S   *.    taNa   tOfl.'                     S
0LA-C,-   .fl  U' Sn.- 'Sn e--0,"3... a                                              n
-  S             20   '00   - S S
0  2   0        0    C  "             0 ''      'fl'SS  C       I   -
-             S                                'C --                       -
O   -                          =   -
U"'   fl'                         -   flu
C                   a
*        0 3                                                    -
a0-4.0na000-.    0                   00b0             .0. LA0 LALA0OP
'LAO  0  .0300    0' 0a.4"aaJ         0 *          0      .4 - -00000  LAO           *. .00.400  LA-.-0'Q    "0
-"0- '-4. -4LA00L4   La'0L'0-.4LALA   O'S--a,O0't,         0 0 LALA-.LA0,LAO          "0       aa.-a.J'0
-      0'   -    -       *        ..O'40aLa-.aa'.O-      ""-'  -   a".
0  0.O-4a', 0   * ' LAOa-..4 0   a, '000,000-4           LA' *0 Ooooaa  a a         '.0 0O-4-4c,ao.4 -     0 ' o   =
0"4a000   - 'LA --Joan    .4'.aJOCatin  0       ba.m0   *0                .'LA'000a00.000         '.-'  -
"0.J.0. -.0LA00.'J   S. 0-COCOS    - ' 00S.  'LA          *J  -J0-00-O  0-a          "0' 0a00-.a00.S-4    '. ' -   C
0'         -      '                   ,                        "  .                    '   -     -
.4'.o 'o  0       -'0   0 00-a-OAa   00  -          0      0'-. -    -    a           "0.000--.-.  LA",O    ''...'Cfl
0.0  LA 0  000L.C0   0 'CJ0-LAO  00000-a   0              a A40 005.0*  00           "0  a*0i0"a0  000       .0' --
'.0" 0    0  050000    - 0000IflL,   LA ' OwOOLJO  -            -J u'-00000aa-aa           '0 OCOCuCa  400
..a..a.-a.o, LAaaO0   0,a*aO,OOa   a.a.oao,...L..           0'001.....OLAa,,ua         *0     ....
*                   ,                        '. .                    ':3
"0.-a'a       -J
a''. a .0'"a' 00-400    0, 0a03-  0   - '0  - -             LA. .0      - -            '"C' 0000000-.0         "'-'-0  fl 20
:*' aLA.a.4oo   0' LALA000....m   a'' ...LALA.4a"a...  C' OLAC Oaaa,a-40a     a, a 0*"aO 0000        '0 .
.'."    a a' 000-LAS    2 ' ,-.aOLAa.4   0 ' a.Ob.-a,OLa       a ' LALA 0A400"400 0       *.a' LAa'a - "0        "  '0-  c as
-4.. LA 0  a' . -400 0.40   aS-LA 0000   0 * a000haLaO     -. . tpLA00000-p'a.4LA     " "a SO 0000*0 00    .'
-,'o,a,a.    -         0'-  - - a  -'                      -'                         "0'  -
0-a .00.00-  00   - '2-4000  0   a''. .'a .4  LA                       - .4          '.0  0000-.    -".    "..- ' -   -
0" LA '-'a ' o . 00000 Oa...'JaaLAO 0   0 ' -aO.o..,0o  0   5' '.a00*a-aa 50-a        '- a ' *000     00      "0 ' U
o "LA 'a 'a'  Oaoooo   - ' ...OaO,.a-a0   a ' a50-0005     - ' LAL,OSLALALAO'.400    '.0 ' taa000    .00    .. a . a * t
a' "0 . - a' OaLA"a0    0 ' a-a0aLA-.0   - 'L.,.JSSS..&..  a ' LAaLAua-...  SLAOO    "0 . 00"aLA. ..- 00     ,..     90
"0*0.,                   .4'               '                   '                        "0.                     ...       -
000   -   0' 0-S  *-a                   -      0'                0        .0  0000  - a 0
...-a"o.o'0' 00-a  00   0'0'-'000  LA  LA'OOLA..LAL.a a         a'  aOOOo-aOaO -           :.  50-0000-0O          C-
.4.4. La "a0500   .:                                    LaO            '                                "0
-.0050000           C O-aLAOLAO.4 -.3.4
*0000-..   a 'eaa'.aLa0-Ob.    - ' 0-4 ShaLa..06.-4 0     ' 0 0-a000-.0aLA          '      S
'                        "                       "  '     S
"-4"-a'0.0, -aOOO-    - '0000La-'aLA   0'LAO-aaObSOLA        a'aapJoe0                "0.S0LA-0-.. '                    S
a'.o '- 'La'             '  - -        ,'                  5'                .4       "0.  SO-a    -a 0       "0'
Oat,-.4 - '                                           LA 0000  .4    "O'OLAOSO 0000   ..-..
-oO-.-ao   a' ' a0-.sLA   0 ' 000LA    E       La u4o.aa  Os           "0  a' 0-JOLaOLA0a      "0'
-...."'.. "C'
0-aO'a0a 0.0-050.0   -'&.-La-a-a00'00    ..0.0-aSaO.0000
        'O'O' -'-             00LA0 '                 -      a,'   -           .4       "0--OSO  000-0          "0'  -
* . - '0  .4 - .40. aO   - -400000   a'0..'0.haa  0        La' 00- 00..aOOOa          "0 '000.400-450-        "  ' 0
"LA "LA '0 ' "a. LA-'-aa a    - . a-0-.b.40*   - ' LA.4aLa.     -aaOo.4o OLA -4.        "0 ' 0-a0-aOa-4 -.Oa
0-.LaOLAO   0'00000.40   0'0aLAaao.               05050000'Oa             "0' 0-a--aL.0'aLAOO
'.0..a.La.  '           0'                                                              'LA,  -           -
"'.   .0oo-a  00   a-a-aLa aDo -.  0'.4ooLAa                   -.aLA.4OooOo  LaO       "0.0-aO-0. 00-
"a' ... '00 ' .-   . -   a' 0-a-. O'-aO0'-a'0La 0000            LAae0aaOOOLA            "2 . o-a5.4e.4-. -         &      H >
:.O:'40.4  0000-.a   LA.LAO 0'4oaO-u,.a SOaa.                   000000LA00-4-a          "0  oooou.o.a.-..                  0) Z
o-z
""0  'LA'-'             0'          -     '                                             "  . -                  "0.0        -
"0'Om       (IL
00*  -0LA0.4                                         -    - - "4          "0' OaO000  C          '-'00
-U'-a-aLA0  0                            '. 0.JLA.4.40'.aOO-a    '.0.0ao0oo00c.,'
-                                                 a.4aa-a-..0a-       ..  0...0ao54t,
"0'.               LA  0' aLALaSSO LA  a'OLA.4.a 00,0          LA.ao,LALAOO-400        "") .0.400000000
0' 0-.oaOO                                         '-'            '                         -      I4 Ul
LA'        -      '                                            '.0.-
00-a  0*   LA.OaO.4-  0   0'0  - -                    -    - - 0           '.'0-.O-.        "a
0   0.-4000-.   0'OLAO-0a                  "a0000000-aO0           '0.0000-a      0)0
..0.0.0.*.0000;LA        .0000.40J.'4o.40050                   LA500-a-aLAOO0O         ..LA.00a0-.     00
"0',0,0.0..
,.o,..4..lloooo-ao.   0'00-a00-aO   LA'000aa.                  0LA000000000            "0'.400'40.    -0
"LA'0.0.  .                                                                   -        "a' -000      .4
"0'.0.0.LA.r"r   -   0 ..4-.0  .4 a   0'
0' 0.30)C   0'0 00LA0LAa.ooo                                 a-..4-..4     '.0.
.'' "5.0'              LA'  LraOO.4a   0.-4aO 0                LA OaO.4.4..'a0-a 00    "0' aOO-a-00-4-u-
- .00020-0   0.0000.400                0-0 --.aa0a0            -a-OS 000...aaOa
0' oaLA.400-   W'00a-aoo                           -OLA        "0-0000'.a0,W'4



- 80 -                                                          ANtNEX 5
Table 16
INDONlESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGENENT PROJECT  (ARIP 1I
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(RUPIANS M'illion)                   USS '000)                         S Total
----------- - --------------  --------------------------  I Foreign   Bas,
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign    Total    Exchange    Costs
sit:.:s    ::5:n:: ::s:::zs   ::5:::z:   ::::::S ititSt:    :::::!:ns:::!:::::
A. AODINISTRATION
1. CENTER AGR RES PLANNING  ICARP/CADP/NISl    12. 585.0 10. 064.9 22. 649.9   7.581. 3  6. 063.2  t3, 644.5               44         33
2. SECRETARIAT                                      2. 219.6     698.3  2. 917.9   1.337 1    420.6  1, 757. 8              24         4
3. RES/EXT LINKAGES  (NLAS/LIBAAR                   3. 276. 8    957 1  4,233.9   1,9 74 0    576. 6  2. 550.6             23          6
Sub-Total ADMINISTRATION                               18,081.5 11,720.2 29,801.7  10,892.4  7,060.4 17.952.8                  39        43
B. NATIONAL
1. SOIL                                             1. 465. 2     74.8  18 540.0      882.6       45. 1    927.7            S          2
2. AG ECON                                           1,502.2     372.6  1,874.8        904.9     224.5  1. 129.4           20          3
Sub-Tote2 NATIONAL                                      2. 967.4    447.4  3, 414.8    , 787.6     269.5  2. 057.              13         5
C. FOOD CROPS
1. COORD CENTER. BOGOR                                381.4       21.6    403.0        229.8      13.0    242.8             5          I
2. BOCOR                                             1 035.9      38.5  1, 074.4       624.0      23.2    647.2              4         2
3. SUKAMANDI                                           888.7     125.2  1,013.9        535.3      75.4      610.8           12         1
4  MALANG                                           12 063.5    252. 6  1. 316. 1      640. 6     152.2    792.8            I9         2
5. SAKARAMI                                            890.8      43.2    934.0        536.6      26.0    562.7              5         1
6  BANJABARU                                           564.1       18.8    582.9       339.8       11.3    351.1             3         1
7. MAROS                                             1, 190.4     52.2   1,242.6       717.1      31.5    748.6              4         2
8. POST HARVEST. SUKANANDI                             129.6      32.4      162.0       78. 1      19.5      97.6           20         0
Sub-Total FOOD CROPS                                    6. 144.2    584.7  6.728.9   3,701.4         352.2  4, 053.6            9         10
0. INDUSTRIAL CROPS
1. COORD CENTER, BOCOR                                 225.2      41.4    266.6        135.6      25.0      160.6           16         0
2. TOBACCO/FIBRE. NALANOG                            1.001.3      117.8  1. 118.9      603.2       70.8    674.0            11         2
3. MEDICINE/SCIENCE. BOGOR                           1, 881.5     84.5  1. 966.0   1, 133.4       50.9  1, 184.3             4         3
4. COCONUT, MANADO                                   1. 150.9     118.5  1. 269.4      693.3       71.4    764.7             9         2
Sub-Total INDUSTRIAL CROPS                              4.258.9      362.0  4,620.9   2, 865. 6    218.1  2.783.7               8          7
E. HORTICULTURE
-_-_-_-_-_-_
1. COORD CENTER. JAKARTA                               304.0      31.0    335.0        183.2       18.6    201.8             9         0
2. LEMlANG - VEGETABLES                              1, 027.6     42.2  1. 069.8       619.0       25.4    644.5             4         2
3. SOLOK - FRUITS                                    1 773. 6  1. 201 3  2. 974,9   I,  OU. 4    723.7  1. 792.             40         4
Sub-Total HORTICULTURE                                  3. 105.2  1, 274. 5  4,379.7   1,870.8    787.7  2, 638.4             29          6
F. ANINAL SCIENCE
1. COORD CENTER, 60008                                 409.4      21. 6    431.0       246.8      13.0    259.6              5         I
2. ANIMAL PRODUCTS, CIANI                            1, 450. 7    90. 4  1 541. 1      873.9       54.4    928.4             6         2
3. VETERINARIAN. BOG0R                                 876.8       54.9    93. 5       528. 1     33. t    561. 1            6         1
Sub-Total ANIMAL SCIENCE                                2, 736. 7    166.9  2,903.6   1, 648. 6      100. 6  1, 749.2           6         4
G. FISHERIES
1. COORD CENTER, JAKARTA                              490.0       24.0    514.0        295.2      14.5    309.6             5          1
2. INLAND FISH. SUKAMANOI                           3.670.8  1.328.4  4.999.2   2.211.3          800.3  3.011.6             27         7
3. MARINE FISH, JAKARTA                              2.983.2    842.3  3,825.5   1.797.1    507.4  2,304.5                  22         6
4. COASTAL AQUA. MAROS                                 806.0      65. 6    871. 6      485. 5     39. 5    525 1             8         I
Sub-Total FISHERIES                                     7.949.9  2,260.4 10, 210. 3   4. 789. 1  1, 361.7  6, 150.8            22         15
H. ESTATE CROPS RESEARCH
1. ALL ESTATE CROPS                                 2,440.5      155.0  2.595.5   1,470.2         93.4  1.563.6              6         4
2. BIOTECHNOLOGY. 80GOR                                703.8    377.7  1 081. 5        424.0    227.5    651. 5             35         2
Sub-Total ESTATE CROPS RESEARCH                         3. 144.3    532.7  3, 677. 0   1, 894. 2    320.9  2, 215. 1           14         5
1. RESEARCH GRANT FUND                                  2. 453. 1    866.9  3. 320. 0   1,477 7    522.3  2 000. 0             26         5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     50, 841.2 18,215.7 69, 056.9  30, 627,2 10. 973.3 41,600.5              26        100
Physical Contingencies                                 2,682. 1    980. 0  3,662.2   1, 615.7    890.4  2,206. 1              27         5
Prico Contingencios                                    9,038 5  1 948.2  0, 96.6    5,444.9   1, 173.6  6 618.8 5              8      '16
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      62,561.8 21, 143.9 83, 705.7  37, 687. 8 12,737.3 50, 425. 1             25       121



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
BUDGET REQUIREMENTS OF EQUIPMENT FOR IMPROVEMENT
OF THE RESEARCH MANAGEMENT AND AGRICULTURAL
INFOR4ATION SYSTEM
Quantity     Price
Peripheral                            (unit)   Estimation
(USS)
Central Processing Unit:                1        250,000
32 BIT, 32 - 256 MB memory
Tape Drive:                             1         40,000
1600/6250 BPI, 9 tracks
Disk Drive:
2.5 GB Formated fixed Disk           1        108,000
Printer:
Laser printer                        1          8,000
8 PPM Line Printer                   1         15,000
Terminal:
Console Terminal, 240 CPS            1          4,000
Color Terminal,
800 x 500 pixels                     6         60,000
Peripherals:                                      40,000
Adapter; Controller;
Interface; Inter Connector
Multiplexer; Emulator; others
Scanner (coloured)                      1         18,000
Supporting System:                                48,800
Wide Screen Video Display;
Film Recorder; Mini Offset; others
Software:
Relational Database (RDBMS)          1         30,-000
COBOL                                1         15,000
FORTRAN                              1         15,000
C                                    1         15,000
__________
T O T A L                                        666,800.00
---------------------------------------------__------_______



- 82
ANNEX 6
Table 2
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FARM EQUIPMENT
FOOD CROPS MOJOSARI                                                                                                              (US DOLLAR)
* '           :             ''                                     Year
No. '          I    a                 Quantity    Unit Cost    Totdl Cost  ------------- ------------------------------------------
I  @   &   '   :   I  :   2  3            I'
1. :DIESEL TRACTOR 45-47 HP  I        2       1    225,000 1       45,000        -              45,000        -       I
2. MDIESEL TRACTOR SPERT-PART:   2 SET                3,000         6,000 1      -                ,0oo0:      -       :             I
3. :ROTARY TELLER               I     2               2,500         5,000t       -               5,000                      _
4. :REASE NOUNTIED BLAD         '     2               2,000         4,000        -       :       4,000:       -       :     -       :
5. :ROTARY CUTTER               i     2       :       1,500 1       3,000         -       :      3,000 1      -              -      i
6.  DISK HARROW                 1     2               6,0001       12,000:        -       1     12,000:       -       :      -      I
:                           : I                                         I             I S 
7. 'HAND TRACTOR                      2       1       1,625:        3,250:        -              3 3,250:     -             -       I
:  ~      ~      ~      ~       ~     ~       ~~ t  :     I         I             :             I
9. iWATER PUMP                  :     3       I       1,250 1       3,750 I       -              3,750 1      -       i      -      :
~~~~~~~~~~~I         I                                          I        
9. HICTH TOOL BAR                   I SET     '         5001          500 o       -       I        500:       -              -      :
10. :GENERATOR 75 KVA            i     2       1       1,250         2,500:        -      :       2,500:       -                      i -   -
T O      T A L                                85,0001        -      '      95,000'       -       :      -             -
12U3s3U333333U3U3B2UsU3UZ233333         a8RR*u33uSuzu533uuuuue3.. .           .       SNSS:S-S .Z...S.S.S.SUIZK3U...........-.R.-....................



- 83 -
ANNEX 6
Table 3
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FARM EQUIPMENT
(US DOLLAW
I                           I |            .                       Year
Qguantity    Unit Cost    Total Cost  -----------------------------_-                          _ -_
I t 0 a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 III
!   '    ~~2      i      3             4        
1,  pDIESEL TRACTOR 32 HP                   I       18,000:       18,000         -       L     18,000         -             -
2. :DIESEL TRACTOR SPERT-PART'             I         2,500          2,500 1      -       J       2,500 '      -       :             *
3.ROTARY TELLER                            I         2,000          2,000 1      -       I       2,000
4. 'REASE iOUTIED  LAO         l           I          1,500         1,500 :      -      -        1,5001       -              -             -
5. :ROTARY CUTTER                            I       1,000 I        1,000 1      -               1,000
.~~                         ~ ~           ~ ~~~                                       ~ ~           ~ ~            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I      I  . I   
6. IDISK HARROH W                           1 I       4,000 '        4,000 1      -       '       4,000 I      -       I     -       I      -
I~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I              I                            I              I '           I 
7. :HAND TRACTOR                            4         1,625 I        &,500                i *     6,500 I      -              -             _
3. :'ATER PUNP                              21          500 1        1,000                        1,000-       -       '      -       I     -
9. :HICTH TOOL AR               1           2:         1,2501        2,500l       -               7 2,500l      -       I     -       I     -
*                            I             I              I             I              I              I              
10. :6ENERATOR 75 KVA                        I          1,000         1,000                 I I    1,000:                :     -             _
11. :SPRAYER PUMP                1           5'         1,000         5,000:                '      5,000:
:                            I             I              I              I             '              :             I       
:~~~~~     ---      ---- -------- ------: ---- -                           - :     -----I--------
T O      T A L                                 45,000:       -              4 45,000:     -       '      -       '



- 84 -
ANNEX 6
Table 4
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FARM EQUIPMENT
FOOD CROPS  PUSK   EARA                                                                                                      IUS DOLLAF
*  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ 
Year
No.           I t r a              Ouantity  ' Unit Cost    T Total Cost  -------------------------------------
-       I             |             @             @      I            2       1     3             4             5
--       --- ----- - --  ---                                            1------- ------------   -    ---   --- ------   ----
:. DIESEL TRACTOR 32 HP                    I       18,0001       19,000:       -               18000       -       '     -
*                           I             I             I             I             '             I             :             I
2. 'DIESEL TRACTOR SPERT-PARTI               :       2,500 1       2,500        -               2500 '      -             -
3. :ROTARY TELLER              1           I         2,000?        2,000 1      -               20001       -      I      - '
4. IREASE  OUNTIED BLAB                   1         1,500         I,500 1      -      I        1500?       -             -            -
5. 'ROTARY CUTTER                          I          ,1000 1      1,000 1      -               1000 I
:                           I             I             t             '             I             9             I      
6.  DISK HARROV                I           I         4,000         4,0001       -      I        4000        -      '      - 0
*                           *             I             I             I             I             I             I             I
7. :HAND TRACTOR               I           6?        1,625 1       9,750        -               9750 1      -      I      -      I
9. IUATER PUM                  I           2           500         1,000I       -       '       10001       -
i                                         I                           III
9. 1HICTH TL BAR                           5 i       1,250 I       6,250        -      '        62501       -       I     - I
10. :GENERATOR 7S KA            '           S1        1,0001        5,0001       - I             50001       -       '     -       1
11. !SPRAYER PUMP               1           4 1       1,000 1       4,000 1      -               4000 t      -       I     -       I
X                    I     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~ I  1  '                           1             I       
12. INAGON 2 UN CAPACITY        I           I         1,000         1,000 1                      1000 1      -             -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 
13. IMIST SLOR                  I           2?        1,000 ?       2,000?       -       I       2000?       -       I     -       I
14.1HANSINSCAK S                            2         1,000         2,000?       -       1       2000?       -       I     -       I
I                           I             I             *             I             I             .             I             9
--------------------------  ------    -------    -------    -------    -----   --
T D T A L                I             1     60,000?       -       1      60000                I



- 85 -
ANNEX 6
Table 5
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FARM EQUIPMENT
HORTICULTURE SOLOK
----------------
No. l          It        *         Quantity    Unit Cost  ' Total Cost  ----------------------------------
I                                        i             .    
:~~                        ~     ~       ~     ~       ~~~ I  I      I      1     2             3      :          
1. 'OIESEL TRACTOR  L5-47 HP  1      2            225,000       45,000        45,000        -             -            -
2. lDIESEL TRACTOR SPERT-PARTO      2 SET           3,000         6,000 :      6,000 1      -             -             -
7.1IC    IOO   ARII,0                                           I,0                 I             I0
:. NANSING SCAN             I     I              1,0 I               I I     1 000
3.  WROTARY TELLER FOR TRACTORI      2       l      2,500         5,000 1      5,000 l      -       I    -       *      -
I0. :SPRAYER                      I              1,0 I                             I 0
4.  REASE  OUTIED SLAD         I    2       '       2,000         4,000       24,000        -       '     -      1      -
5. :ROTARY CUTTER              l     2       l      1,500 1       3,000 1       3,000 1     -             -       I     -      I
1.   AGON 3HARRON              l     2       1      6,0001       12,0001      12,000l       -       l     -       l     -
t ~ ~~~ '                                                                   1            I  
7.  -HICTH TOOL DAR            I     l       1        1,000 1     l,OOO  -      t,000 .     -       .-                      -.
8. lHANG1I6 SCAH               I     I       1      1,000L        1,0001        1,0001      -             -             -
9. IWATER PUNk                 l     2       l      1,250 1       2,500 1       2,500 1     -             -       l     -      I
10. lSPRRYER                    I     I       1      1,500         1,00          1,500:l     -             -             -      I
11. IMIST BLCHER/DISK           1     2       1      1,000 1       2,000 :      2,000 '      -       l     -       '     -      l
12. INAGON 3 TON CAPACITY       l     I      t       2,000 1       2,000:1      2,000 :      -       :     -       l     -      I 
.                   ~~~~~I   I   I.                                                                                    I . .
l   r O T A L I         :             1     55s000  ~~~~~ ~             ~     ~     ~~~I 5500  I  ~ l.
~~~~TO                  L::*                                9,00          9500          -       Is   -       1.--



- 86 -
ANNEX 6
Table 6
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FARM EQUIPMENT
HORTICULTURE SUBANS                                                                                                               (US DULL
Year
Nc. '          I t e             '   uantity    Unit Cost    Total Cost  ------------------------------------------------------  - .
|  '   :   '   I  I  1   2         3             4       '
1. tOIESEL TRACTOR 32 HP               I             16,000         19,000       0-       :      18,000        -              -             -
2. !DIESEL TRACTOR SPERT-PART'    I SET               2,500 1        2,500 1      -               2,500        -              -
3. !ROTARY TELLER                      I               2,000         2,0001       -               2,000        -              -
4. 'REASE HOUNTIED BLAD                 I             1,500         1,5001       -               1,500:       -       1      -       1     -
5. :ROTARY OUTHER                      I I     :       1,000         1,000:       -        '      1,000 '      -              -             -
*             I              *             *              .             *              *
6. :DIESEL HORROH               '      I               4,000:.    4,000            -              4,0001               I
7. :HICTH TOOL BHN              '      I       i       i,000         1,000         -       1      1,000 1       -       I     -
S. :SPAYER PUMP                 *      4       '       1,000 1       4,000 1       -       :      4,000 1               1
9. 'HALRR PUMP                  1     4        1      1,250 '        5,000 1      -               5,000 :      -              -
:                            :             :              I             '              ' 4 
10. i'ASEN 2 TOm CAPASITY        :      2       1       1,000 :       2,000 '       -       '      2,000 '       -       '     -
'~~              ~ ~            ~ ~           ~ ~            ~ ~            ~ ~           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I '  I  S  
11. :6ENERATOR 125 KVA           1      2       1    2000.00        4000.001        -       '    4000.001        -       '     -
'~~ ~ ~                            ~ ~ ~ ~                       ~ ~           ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ i  I  '    I    
__    *    _________   ........................... _______  ..............  ___  .____ _ I___ __ * __ , _, __ _ __ __ _4 ____
---     ---------                              ------   ------------ -------- -- ----I----  ------  ----
I  I  I       4      lii45,000     -       4      45,000        -       .
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                     4  sJ,VU                  .,VU                             4       



- 87 -
ANNEX 6
Table 7
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FARM EQUIPMENT
INDUSTRIAL CROPS BONE-BONE                                                                                                          (US DOLLAR)
9 X   .   .   |tYear
No. '          I t e a               Quantity    Unit Cost        Total Cost   ----------------------------------------------------------------
,                    ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~       ~     ~~~*  *  *  * 9   
'  '     '   ' I  '  2       3             4        '
1. :TRACTOR 46 - 47 HP                 1              25,0001        25,000         -      -                     -              25,000:
*             *              *              *              *              *             .              9
2. :DISK                               I 1      1      5,500'         5,500:        -       '      -       '5,500
3. 'HARROVS                            I               b,000          6,000:                       -             -       :       &,000
4. :ROTAVATOR                           I              S,OOO          3,000 :       -       ' i    -                     '       5,000         -
i. !TRAILER - 3 TON                     I       '       4,000         4,000:        -       '      -             -               4,000:
6. !POWER SPRAYER 35 PK          '     2        '       1,125 '       2,250 1       -              -             -        I      2,250 1       -
7. :VERTICAL WATER PUMP          I      I       :         750            750'       -       '      -       '     -        '         750:       -
*             *              .              .              .              .             . 
S. :GROSS CUTTER NACHINE         :      2                 S00:o        1,000:       -       '      -              -       '       1,000 1
9. 'TOOL KITS                    '      I       '         500            5001       - I-                          -       '         SOO'
.                    ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~       ~     ~~~*  9  9  9  9  9  9  
T 0 7 A L 1*              9              I              .             *              9              .     
I                 I O TA                    1               I    30S,00O0I      -        I     -       I      -       I      50,000 1      -



- 88 -
ANNEX 6
Table 8
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FARM EQUIPMENT
INDUSTRIAL CROPS KP BAJENX                                                                                                      (US DOLLAR)
__       __                                 __-- -- - --  -       - - --     -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - --_- -- - -- - - --     -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -
i :   ,   ,                           Year
No. I          I t I a n            Quantity  I Unit Cost  I Total Cost  - -------------------------------------------------------------
I             I                           I              :             '             ' 
*             S :           :             t      I       :     2       I     3             4       I      5
1. :TRACTOR 46 - 47 HP                I             25,000         25,000        -             -             -       I     25,0001
2. :DISK                              I       1      5,50  :        5,500        -             -             -              5,00
5.  aS aRV                          I                                    IZ   X
3.  :ARROWS                     I     I       I       &,000          ,000        - :                                 :             :,0
4. 'ROTAVAtOR                         I              5,000 1        5,000       -             -       I     -               5,000
5. :TRAILER - 3 TOM             I     I       '       2,000:        2,000:       -             -              -      :       2,000:
&. :POWER SPRAYER 35 PK               I       I       1,250 1       1,250 1      -       I     -             -       I       1,2501
|                    s             S              t             I~~~~a    I                  I                           a 
7. !VERTICAL WATERPurP                -       :     -              -       I     -             -              -             -
9. 'GROSS CUTTER MACHINE        1     -       :      -       :     -       a     -       a                    . a  -
9. 'TOOL KITS                         I       I         SOO00         2501       -             -                                50
:~~                     ~      ~      ~      ~~~~~~ 5I1t  43,000 1                                     I            45,000 I  -
tS-ssssts--stsstSsssussssst-tstsessasswaswsa-as-astsstass-sstss-assssss|w$s-wssssswsa   a. 2501....



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
Table 9
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FARM EQUIPMENT
FRESH WATER FISHERIES SUKMANDI                                                                                              (US DOL
Year
No. .     I te I t I           uantity  ' Unit Cost    Total Cost  ----------------------------------------------------
*            .                                   
I      I *   '   l   l   :   2  3  i     4            5
.                   :      ~     ~       ~     ~       ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~~~~~~ I  .  I 
1. WATER PUNP                  '                                        I
*                          *             I             .                           I                          .             I
'1. CAPACITY 20 LITER                 13 I          75 1        975                                                     975
I                          I                           I                                
!2. CAPACITY 30 LITER                  5           150         750'       -       I     -      I      -                750'
13. SET PUMP               I           41          394 I      1,576 1      -             -       '     -      '       1,576!      -
i                          It                          I :                                       I              
14. DIESEL PUMP                        4           7571       3,029 '              1     -       I '                 3,023'
'5. SUBMERSIBLE PUHP       I           51          182          910'       -       '     -       I     -      '         9101
16. SPRYER PUMP            I           I I       1,000 1       1,000 '     -       I     -       '     -       '      1,000 I
I                          I                                                                                  .
I t .                                    .             .             .             .
:1.~~ Y.TE  SLWE                                              .             .9  1.7                    1.7
I1.HIBL OWER                    I             S            1       1            I      S             I 
~~~~.*                                          .             .             .             .             .    
h1.  ORTEI 8LOVER          I           S 1         3941        1,970:      -       I     -       '     -       '      1,9J'0
VI   GEEAO                                           34          2,2  t                                          i      2,2 .  
12. HY-LONER                           S1          2731        1,3651      -       '     -       '     -              1,3b5'
I                          I             I             5             I             I             .             .            I
111.'6RASS CUttlN6              1         10 1         192 1       1,3201'      -      '     -       '     -       '      1,3201' 
VI. '6ENERATOR                  '          81          3401        2,720'       -                                        1 -  '  -  '  2,120
V.  '8ALANCE OHAUS              I          21'         900:        4 ,5501'     -      '      -      '     -       '       1,800!' 
VI. IMANO TRACTOR               I          3 1        1515 '      12,120 '      -      '      -      '      -      '     12,120 '      -
VIl.CANVAS TANK                '         30           454 1      13,620 '      -      '      -      !     -       '     13,620
VIII:FISH FINDER                1          '         1,7981        3,5961       -      *                           !      3,5'6'       -
*          TOTAL                                       1     50,000 1                                                  ,000
-   -  -     -   -     -  --            *- .                        .             .             .             .
--!- - ---------  I-'------------'-                                I                                         I---_____l__.___l______|__________



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Table 10
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT
tocatiofi    Secretariate/CARP, Jakarta
Year
No.              I t e I               'Quantity        Unit Cost       rotal Cost  ---------------------------------------------------------
|  ,   '   ,   ,   I  '   2  '   3              4           
-------- -------- ------- -------- ---- I-- ------- -- t --- -------- ------- ----    --- -------- ------- ----    --- -------
I. ,ssa Fixed Station Radio                     2t           8,500          17,000                          11,000
:Transmitter/Receiver Unit:                                      '
2.  Conference Sound Systen   '                   3:         7,500          22,500                           22,500>
3. :Wireless sound syste                          5' t0o o                   2,000                            2.000
4, :Slide film projector                          2          3.500           1,000  '                '        T000
S. ;Cassette  tape recorder                       2;            600           1,200                           1 200
|~~                             ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~        ~~ I  I  I ,                             , ,  .   
6. :icrophone system,                             I            ,500  ;       t,S00,                  ,        4,500
,speaker and amplifier          :               ,                                                                 ,
7.  Loud hailers                                   S           ISO 1           750 '                '          750
S. :Photocopier                                   2:         2,500           S,000 :                 ,        5.000:
9. :OiDllay screen books                        o10             397          3,970                   ;        3,970
10. :Slide file                                                  1 120           600:                 '          600;
II.  Slide storing desk              '             S:             35I 115                                         '75
.               *               .                .                        
12.  Slide cases                                   S               i              90 '                '30                              ' 
13.  Slide storage wsilets                        :2             900 '         1,800  'Ia;o
I           I               .               .                I                
14. :Camera set izoom, tele    '                   I          6,000 '         6,000 ;                          6,000
widee anqle lensess, fii-;
ters auto below  tripodl )
15.  0verhead projector 360 i :                    2:         1.100            2,200                  ,        2,200
:with 5 spare  larps            ,
16.  Tripod screen.,                               2             215             5S0 5ss
:'0 X 10 inch                                    :               : '
17.  Facsimile,  inc, teleohone'                   S          4.933  ;       24,665                           24,665   -
T      o      t a I  '100,000                                                                100000



t4  C   ~           ~          ~         ~          -- -- -- -                                                                                                   --- -                                                                                                                          I 
II  4   -  4                                                .             4                                             .            .            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C    S.           -                                      4-                                 ~
a*     ,           -a                                            ..r                                     -             n     nZ                                     do',         dz C.,.c,
..  I  ~ ~~~   -.      C                                       -           (U            ...-(U             40~~~~~~~~C                                          . C                  0                4               a     04 
..  I  S.C   -   C        C             a           to       -    a                          a                   a     -.   C)~~~~~d  Go                                   C             C.c,                                 C                             l           C
-.    -   --       --        --------------------                                                     ------------------------------ -                                                                       -ol  - C-C)--t- -   -  --.--- -C.- a--                -        ------------------
C>-,             -                               -                                  :- 3EU4b                                                     CD,             C ~   C2                          -,            -                                                     .           0             0 I11
II     SO                0~cp.      .7            CD,            a                 CD-                   a~                '*4             C e        C.                                                         C>            ...                        Z.          C=           C.                                c..               
I    -----            -      --       -      --        -      --        -     --         -     --        -      --        -     --        -      --       -      --        -     ----,                 ----           --        ---          --         ---          --        ---          --        ---          --        --
4    C.  a  Cit  -                  a             4a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,                                                 C                                                    4~~~~~~~~.   0                     4                          45~~~~1              (
II  14                                                                                    C                   r4                                                  .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:. cl  2  c'  gz                 =      ~                      
--                -      -      -     -      --        -      -     -      -      -     --        -      -     -      -      -     --        -      -     -      -     -      --        -      -     -      -     -      --        -      -      -     -----5-S( 4     05       -----             ----



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Table 12
INDONESIA                                                   (1  of  2)
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT
LOCATION   HORTICULTURE, SOLOK                                                                                       (US Dolla
~~~~~ -------------------------     -----     -  --------------~------                                               ------
Year
No.          I t e *'a Quaatity    Unit Cost :Total Cost  ---------------------------------------                        
,     @            w            '            '     1      .    ~~~~~              ~     ~~~~~~2 ' 3  4  5 
-- --- - ---                  -  -- - -- - ----  ---  - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
1.:DIESEL TRACTOR, 16 HP                  1    5,000.00    5,000.00 '     -        5,000.00
'(4X4) SPAREPARTS.
2.'WATER PUMIP                          "2   2,500.00    5,000.00          -      '  5,000.00
3.:MIST BLOWER!DUSTEM         :         2       500.00 '  1,000.00 '       -      '  1,000.00
4.WAC-ON, TWO WHEELED         :         2'    750.00    1,500.00 '         -      :  1,500.00
5.:AUTOIATIC ABSORTION SPEC              I 1   41,600.00 '41,600.00        -      '41,600.00
:ACOPHOT01ETER                        I 1    7,900.00 ' 7,800.00 '      -      ,  7,800.00
6.:ATONlIC ABSORTION SPECTIRO
:PHOTOMETER ACCESORIES    :           2:      500.00    1,000.00,       -      :  1,000.00
7.JBALAHCE ANALYTICAL         '         2:   4,875.00    9,750.00 '        -     ,  9,750.00               !
8.'BALANCE TOP LOADING        '         2'  4,030.00:  8,060.00 .          -      .  8,060.00
9. BATH, LABORATORY TYPE    '           2'  1,974.00 ' 3,948.00 '          -      '  3,948.00
10. BLENDER COZtERCIAL         '         3I      613.60 '  1,840.80:        -         1,840.90
:7 SPEED                    '           .            '            :            '            '            r
11.:CALORIKETER                'I     5,980.00:  5,980.00'                 -      : 5,930.00
12.:SENTRIFUGE, GENERAL        '         2 '13,190.00   26,380.00 '         -      :26,3Q0.00
:PURPOSE                                 :           :            :            :
13.:SENTRIFUGE, GENERAL                   I:  1,950.00:  1,950.00:          -      :  1,950.00
'PURPOSE ACCESORIES                      :                        : ,
14.:SENTRIFUGE REFRIGERATED               I: 31,200.00   31,200.00:         -      :31,200.00:
15.:COLONI COUNTER             :         2:  2,580.00    5,160.00:          -      : 5,i60.00
16.:COUNTER SCALE              :          1   1,850.00:  1,850.00:         -      :  1,850.00
17.:CRUDE FIBRE APPARATUS                 I:  8,710.00:  8,710.00:          -      : 8,710.00
18.:DISPENCERS                 :         2:  1,456.00:  2,912.00:           -      :  2,912.00
19.:FAT/OIL EXTRACTION         :          1: 10,257.00: 10,257.00:          -      :10,257.00
:APPARATUS                  :            :
20.:FLAUE PHOTOMETER DIGITAL:             1: 15,335.00: 15,335.00:          -        15,335.00
21 :FREEZER, FLA1IABLE         :          2:  4,550.00:  9,100.00:          -      : 9,100.00 :'
:STORAGE TYPE               :            :
22.:FREEZER, ULTRA LOW         :          1: 15,457.00: 15,457.00'          -      :15,457.00 r.
'TEKPERATUR                 :            :           :                         ,            :            I
23.:FUME HOOD/EXH0AUSTER       :          2   11,440.00: 22,880.00:         -      :22,880.00:
24 :HOT PLATE/STIRRER                     3:    847.60:  2,542.80:          -      : 2,542.80                1
:COMIINATION                :         1   1,592.00:  1,592.00:          -     :  1,592.00
25.:HYGROTHERlOGRAPH           '          2:   1,016.60:  2,033.20:         -      '  2,033.20
26.:SUCUBATOR, C02 TYPE                    1:23,455.00: 23,455.00'          -      :23,455.00: 
27.:SUCUBATOR DRY HEAT TYPE  :            3    1,812.20:  5,436.60:         -      :  5,1436.60 :'
28. :SUCUBATOR REFRIGERATED   :           3:  6,822.00 : 20,466.00:         -      :20,466.00 '
29.:SUCUBATOR.SHAKER                      I:   7,753.00:  7,753.00:         -         7,753.00.:
30.:LAMINAX FLOW CABINET       :          I : 6,745.00: 6,745.00:           -         6,145.00
31.!HICROSCOPE CAMiERA                    I 1    : 2,080.00 : 2,080.00:     -      :  2,0ao.00 r
ATTACHeBT                  :            :            :                                                  I
- - -            7-- -  -  --- - -     -  - - - --------------------------------- -  ---------- - --



- 93 -
ANNEX 6
Table 12
INDONESIA                                                  (2  of  2)
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT
LOCATION   HORTICULTURE, SOLOK                                                                                        (US Dolla
Year
No.:          I t e *            Quantity    Unit Cost :Total Cost  -- -    ---------------------------------------------------
I           2            3            4            5
- -----                  -            ---------------------                            --------------------------
32.:MICROSCOPE. RESEARCH       :         2    7,280.00   14,560.00 :        -      : 14,560.00                            1
33 :MICROSCOPE, STEERED ZOOKl            2    3,809.00    7,618.00          -         7 1,618.0O
:TYPE                                                             I
34.:nICROSCOPE ROTARY                     I   10,032.00   1 10,032.00                1 -  10,032.00 ,
35.:MILL CYCLONE AIR TYPE                 2    5,200.00  10,400.00 :        -      :10,400.00
36.:KILL GENERATED PURPOSE                I I    3,198.00 1  3,198.00 :     -      :  3,198.00
37. :ILL WILEY CUTTING TYPE               I   3,120.00    3,120.00 :        -      :  3,120.00
38.:MIXER, TOUCH TYPE          :          2:     358.80 :    717.60         -      :    717.60
39.:nUFFLE FURNACE                        I    2,585.00 : 2,585.00 :        -      :  2,535.00
40.NITROGEN DIGESTIONI SYSTEMl:           I  17,700.00:  17,700.00                   1 -  7 11,700.00
41.:OVEN, MECHANICAL           :         3, 4,318.60 :12,955.80:            -      :12,955.80
XCONVECTION
42.PENETROMETER                           I   7,436.00    7,436.00                      4 -  :  7,436.00
43.:PH METER DIGITAL           :          3    3,312.40 : 9,937.20 :        -      : 9,937.20
44.:PUnP HIGH VACUUM TYPE    :            2    2,990.00 : 5,980.00                    5 -  : 5,980.00
45.PUNP PRESSURE VACUUM TYPE:             3      700.00    2,100.00'        -      ' 2,100.00
46.:REFRIGERATOR/FRE7ER       5I   3,560.00 ,17,800.00                      -      :17,800.00:
:LAB. TYPE                               :            :           :            :            :
47.:ROTARY EVAPORATOR                     I@ 3,800.00 : 3,800.00 :          -      :  3,800.00
48.:.'SHAKER RECIPROCAL                   I    2t,493.00    2,493.00 :      -         2,493.00
49.:SIEVE  SHAKER                         I I:  2,753.00   21,753.00:       -      : 1,753.00:
50.:SLIDE WARMER                          I I:   806.00 :    806.00:        -      :    806.00
51.:SPECTROPHOTCOETER          :          21 6,030.00 :12,060.00:           -      :12,060.00
:SINGLE BEAn                :            :            :                                     .
52.'STERILIZER/AUTOCLAYE                  2    6,910.00   13,920.00                '13,820.00
53.:WATER PURIFIER/DIONIZER  :            3   5,560.00 :16,680.00:          -      :16,680.00
54.:WATER PURIFIER STILL                  I I    5,675.00    5,675.00 1     -      :  5,675.00
T0TAL             '            '            :500,000.00'              :500,000.00.              '
LABOR2.WKI



- 94 -
ANNEX 6
Table 13
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT
LOCATION: NATIONAL LIBRARY ACRICULTURAL SCIENCE
...................     ....................................................................................................................~~~~~~~~~~...... .......... 
~~~ Yetar(U
aO. '            I t e m                   Quantity        Unit Cost       Total Cost   --------------------------------------------
,           }                 8               '               '   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    ,   2       3                4              5
1  :Editing and typeseting set.
:A set of Composer 2 (SMB
:Disk, Modular Construction                                  zsloo,Q         25,000          -5,000
:text shown,  graphic tables.
:Copy flow, output on line    '
!Linotron and input of text)
,~~                            ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  ,              
2.  Audio visual equipment:   .   :
a. Slide film cabinet                        I               I 10,000        10,000 '0,000
b. Video tape set (camera                   I               17,942          11,942          -                17.242
editing equipment video    '
date show scope)               :                 :               '                                :
:c. Slide tape set (Disolve   :              I        :       5,000:          5,000:         -        :        5S000*
control screen,  tape          :                                 '
syncroniL er, slide pro-   '                     '               '
jector,  slide tray)                             '
d. Artist table  (HUTOR arm                 I        :       2,945  '        2,145  :       -        :        2,945  :       -               -
type drafting machines    '                      '
MVF-I10)
:e. Portable overhead                        I        '          s    :          589 '          -                589
Projector                      '                 '               '               '                '               :
3   :Camera set (zoom,  tele,           :        I        :       6,000           6,000:         -                 6,000                          -
'wide angle lenses,  filters,  :
'Autobelow,  tripod .                                 :               :
4. ;Addressograph                                I                Z z,74s'         2,945:        -                 2,945                          - .             -
5.  Microfiche equipment                :                 :
a. Diaro duplicator  (SONAR                 I        :      11,000  :       11,000            *              111,0  '                        - *             -
Diazo Microfiche Dupli-
cator KD-103)                                    :               :
b. Microreader printer             :        I        :      12,500:          12.500:         -               lt,5o- 
usinl plain paper              '                 '               '
(Minolta Rp.503)               :                 :               :
c. Quality control aicro            :        l        :       6,079:          6,019           -                6,0
fila/microfiche                                  '
....-     ----.........otal..             .............  1--0,---0--: ..                                      . ...................................... ............  ............ ........
T o t a I                                                              0,0 '                           o,'    
.                                              ... ... ... ..  ... ... ... .   . ... ... ... ......................... ...... ............ .  ....... .......................................... ..................... . . . . ............ ..........
.... .... ................. ................................... .............................. ...................... ..................... ............................... ........



- 95 -
ANNEX 6
Table 14
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT
LOCATION: BIOTECHNOLOCY BOGOR
-- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - , .................  @...................................... ........
I t e a             r  Quintity    U'nit Cost   ' ,otal Cost  ------------------------------------------------
I                   I              I              I~~~~~~~I 
.~~                             ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  ,  I .  .      
1. 'L31inar Air Flow Cabinet        '       I                I 5,000 0     5,000 '      -        '     -               5 0 I 
,~~                ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~ 2 .7 .  .      
t. 'Cyrotary Shader                 '       I               5,500          5,500                                       5500
3.  Ltmrilirer  F                           t               5,000:        to,0oo         -  00         -t,000 ,
2.~~~~ ~ ~ .yotr  S.de                                                   . 5.0  5.00                                 . 0
3.~~~~~  ~ .Sejje                                         .              . 1000  20.0                                .       z,o
4.  Water Purification System               I               3,500          3,500                        -                 500
5. Aosogenizer                              I       '        1,500:        7,500          -      l,500 '
6. :Circulation Theraostat                  I           I ,  3400:         3,400                 : -                    3,400        -
7. :Peristaltic Pump Assesbl    '          I        :      2.500          t,500        :-                              2,500:
6. :acteriosical  Incubator         :       I       '       t,600 '        t,600:'       -              -       '       t,6
92  :Mini Fersentor                         I        :     31400  :       31,400 :                              , :     i,4o00 
10. :Cell Culture Apparatus                  I        '     1t,500 :       12,500 :       -       '      -       '      1:,500
11.  Electro Cell Banipulator                I              13,000         12,000                                       19,000        -
12. :Fu;e Hood Cabinet               '       I              17,500:        17,500                 : -                   17,500
13. :lectric Power Generator                 I              13,500         13,500 '       --l500:
14.  Spectrophotometer                       I        :      6,100 ,        6,100 '       - -            -               6.00
.               F              F             F              F              .       
---- - - - -- - - - --------   ............. . . . . ....   -- - -- - -           ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       ..   . . . .. -   - - - -
T o     t a Ils1,000                                                                             '    150,000 ':0
.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::



- 96 -                                                      ANNEX 6
Table 15
INDONESIA                                                     (1 of 3)
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
Scientific Equipment
(Laboratory)
LOtTION i MARINE FISHERIES JAKARIA                                                                         US Dollars
1 ,  I        5              I TOTAL PRICE BY YEAR OF PRIORITY (US$)
INo.I        ITEI/SPECIFICATION          ,TY   Unit Cost    Total Cost  --- --
I                                        l      '             ,                     Yi      1      Y2      I       Z
!~~~~~~~~~                                  ~      ~       ~      ~     ~    ~ ~         ~      ~~~~~~~~~ ;.  .  I o     o 
V1,1  ierastep                           ,1I           Ob0            8 060   ,     -       I       SbO    1
;    I                                   I      I              I             t              I
1  21 MIicroscope fbinocular)            '  3        2,941    ,    5,823            -             9,923    1
3i Trinocular tube, Olympus             1          712                   , 711                 712    1
5i~~~~                                   ~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ I  F              I    
4   Microscope Casira                a  1         4,853          4 S53           -            4l53      ;
51 SIIance                               2  1    4,300           8.60(1          -            9,3b600   1
6: Bllanc.                           52              3J0 700                     -       i       700
1',                                      F      I              F              F .  .                 
7   a1iancr                              I        1Oq90         Z,090            -            3,070            -
it8 . eoctrophotieettr                   I  2  0   14,750          2 29, 00         -            29,500    5          -
a   - a                                  I      ;              ,              I              ,             ',
195 9 Ater still                            2  5    4,300           9,600   1       -             4,300   ,
I 10:  Magnetic stirrer IKA              1  2  i       300    1       600   l          -            600   1        -
1111  Drying Ovn                         1  2  1    1,050    1    2,100                           2,100    1       -
I    ,                                   ,      4                     ,       ,              ;  
112   Reversing Nansen Water              o10           190   1    1,800    1       -             1,900    1 
113   Reversing theruasiter              1 15  1         49   ,       720           -               720   5        -       i
,~~~~~~~                                    ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,  ;  F I4 ;.
.14 IpH oeter                            i  2             0         2,920    1      -        I    2,29    .        -
, ,,                          ~~~           ~ ~            ~ ~            ~ ~            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   ,      at
515   Rutrigurator Fiher luatetp  1  2,                 500         100             -        ,    1,00             * 
16i9oxhlEt                               I11          400            400 1         -               400
I~~~~~~                                     ~ ~            ~ ~            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  i   i  a  
1 17 1attroisicro kJeldahl unit    '  !              2,100          2.100    1      -        i    2,100
118     Huflflu furna c                       i      1,050          1I050    ,                  1 I,050
'a   ,                                   5      I              I              
l19   A utoclave                            1        3,100    1    3,100    1                  1  ,100
5 20 I Incubatof                              I         935            935          -
1:21   Water both                           1        2,790    1    2,790    1       -        1    2,790



- 97 -
ANNEX 6
Table 15
INDONESIA                                            (2 of 3)
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
Scientific Equipment
(Laboratory)
Location:          ARI  FISJ   IEJS UCTA                                                                 US Do
- -w_---- -__------------ - --- -  ---------------------ss_ -_-- - ---- --    ----
j    I                                If   It             i             I TOTAL PRICE BY YEAR OF PRIRITY (UIS$)
ltlo. I      ItNtl/IPICIPICAI         1 OTY t Unit CDot  I Total Cost  ----------- -------- -----
1.1                                   1 I                                     Y1 I:        Y2            Y3       1
I.......... ................... .I ........... .* ................I.....
*   |                            l~~          ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~       ~      ~~~~ I  t      I I
221 Blseder                           11       1,505   1    1,505    :             I    1,5051         -
I ~  ~        ~       ~~~          ~     ~       ~     ~       ~     ~      ~~~~ '  t  I    I  I  
231 Freezer                         A1    I   10,000   I   10,000   I               I, 110,000   I      -
*~                             I            I             P             I            I       
241 Satety lminar cabinet           I   1       l,2,20       0 200   1      -       1   1,200   1       -
I:                               I     I             t             :             I            1      
251 Theroo recorDr                              4,300  1    4,300 t         -       I   4130    1       -
I     I,                                                    I  
261 Underwater ct^ra NICODS    I 2  1    1,200   1   2,400   1              -       t   2,400   '        -      I
.,                       ,     ;             ,            ~      ~      ~      ~~I  I  I 
27i lpe reteror                      I 3  1        00   1   2,400   1       -            2,400           -
.I                               I      I                          I                    
28 'Video caara rI1                             1,000         1,000   I     -       1    1,000   I       -
291 Yideo recorder                     2          775   1    1,550   t       -           1,550   t       -
30 i Current motor                     2  1   12,950   1  25,900   1        -       1  24,900   1        -
31                                                600 I    1,800l            -      :1,S00 
.,                      I     ,             |     ~      ~      ~     ~       ~     ~      ~      ~~~~~ I  i    
32.  Fish finder horisontal          I Ii    2,950   1    2,950   1          -      1   2,950   1        -
33 ITransducer                       t 2  I    2,100          4,200  #t      -      :    4,200   '
I                      t     '     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~       ~     ~       ~      ~~~~~~ I  I      
34   Flonm tnr                       1 21  2,100   1    4,200   1               -   I 4,200                      I
* :   I                          I                   I                          i i           I
35   D Dynamometer                   I 2          9 920   1    1,840   1     -           1,540   1
36  1 Compass (Portablel             I 3          9 00   1   2,700   1       -       1   2,700   1       *
I                       *      ;            '             t             |             ;  I  P 
37   Scuba Diving Appratus           I 4  I   2,100   1    9,400   1         -       I     ,400   1      -I
:                                I                   1                           
38   Slide projector                  I 1  t    1,200   1    1,200   1       -       1   1,200   1               I
39 I Handy-talky/ualky-tAlky         I 4  t       150   1       900                               1 -            t900
I                                      I                           I            i             P        
4Q  I56i                                21    7,000  1  14,0001              -       1  14,000  1
*                                ,     I             ,             I            I              
41  1 Irtieless Soud Sysitt.         I  1  1   400            400  t        -       1     400    I
42, 1icroohorn  Systes        t         I       4,500    1  4,500    1       -           4,5 0O    1
43               sthine              1 2  I  2,500    1   5,000    :         -           5,000



- 98--                                         ANNEX 6
Table 15
INDONESIA                                          (3 of 3)
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCII MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
Scientific Equipment
(Laboratory)
MARINE FITSERIES JAKARTA                                                                     US Dollt-
7    S                                  l      1             7              I TOTAL PRICE BY YEAR OF PRIORITY (U9$f   I
,hov 1       ITEW/SPECIFICA.ION         I OTY I nit Cost  ,          tal  -ot 7-------------------------------
i                                        11                           I      Y.  '   ,'   rl   '  2 I     Y Y
.  ......... -..___........ __......... --....... ----------------------------------------
I                                I~~~~~~~11 1                               I              1 
'43. Cas5set. tape rmorder             I  1  I      600     I      600     1              I     600            -
146.   Slide itoring desk                  4  1       35            140            -       I      40
47. ) Slioet  ases                     I9             19 is        162     1      -       I     162    ,        -
14S, l Pacil?.e                           I  1     4 000          4,000     '     -            4,000             -
:                                              I I  '                                      I          
I~l                             I              ,             .               
*    I                                  .      I             ,    200,000   1                            .
I



- 99 -
ANNEX 6
Table 16
INDONESIA                                                      (1 of 3)
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT
(LABORATORY)
LOCATION: FRESH WATER FISHERIES SUKAMANDI
NO. ,I t e n                            Quantit)       Unit Cost      rotal COst  ----------------------------------------------------------
A.  Water Quality Laboratory
1. :AAS Varian double beam                  I              60,933         60,933        -              -              -              60,333
2. ;Sectrophotometer (Lab)                  I               1,830          1,830 ;       -                            -               1,330
accessories                                               482            482        -              -              -                 482
3. :Soectrophotometer (field)               2               1,320          2,640         -             -              -       :       2.640         -
4. :Oxygen meters YSI Model 57 F            2               1,1'0          3,540         -             -              -               3,540         -
:membrane accessories
S.  Electronic TOP Loading                  I               1,624          1,624 ;       -              -       :     -               t,62l         -
,'allance Cap.0.3100 9 CP 500;
6.   ater dissillation unit,         ;      I               2,335          2,335         -              -              -              2,335;        -
:6 l/hour                                        :
1. ;Kjeldahl Oigestar/Destilla- ;           I              15,554         is,554         -       ,      -             -        ;      5,554
3tion + Fume removal
8.  Salinity Temperature Conduc-            t I              1,021         1,021         -  -                          - :             1,021        -
tivity meter                    ;
9.  PH Meter, Laboratory Type   ;           '               1,626          1,626         -       :              ,                      'I,62:
,H.650 Rang o sol 4                                             :
10.  PH Meter, Field Accumet 15t6            2                  423:          846;        -              -                     : -436
It.  M0  Apparatus                           11              5,420 ;        5,420        5-              -              -              5.420         -
12, :Hot Plate                               2                  1 'SO          300        -              -       :      -                 300:
13   Hicroscope, Research Quality            1               6155:          6,155         -              -              -              6,155
14,  Dissecting Microscope                   1              5,202          5,202         -      -              - :                     5,202:,
15. :rying Oven                              1                1,506         1,506         -              -              -               1,506
16.  Refrigerator sire 0,2  3                t               3,494          3,494         -       :      -       :      -       :
11.  muffle Furnace Tem Control              I               2,620          2,620         -              -             -                2,62o        -
:600   oC                                        *              I             I              I              I              I
Sub Total                                                 111,734 :               :              ::                    1,4l 4
-- -  - - - --  - - -  - -- -  - - -  -- - -  - - --  - - -  - -- - -  - - --  - - - -  -   --- - - - - - - -  - - -  - -- - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -



- 100 -
ANNEX 6
Table 16
INDONESIA                                                         (2 of 3)
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT
(LABORATORY)
LOCATION: FRESH WATER FISHERIES SUKANANDI
Ius
i                        Yaer
No.              I t e                    Q Quantity     Unit Cost       Total Cost  ------------------------------------
|                                 ,              ,               ,      I       ,      2       ,~~~~~~~~~I    3      t:4    
S. ,Fish Parasites and Disease                                  
1. :Research Microscope               ,       I896                            J896 ,        -       ,,,896
,40 X 1000                        ,,,'                                                            
2. ;Professional Microscope           *       I       ,       t.661           1,661  ,      -              -               -       '       $,66I  I
3. ~Stereo gicroscope Binocular ,3I ,                            33.36    ,       3366,     -              --                      ,       3.3566
B.~ ~     ~ Fis  Paaie   an  Disease:
l.  ,croole Photoicroscpt             ,       1               48123           4,83 ,                                                       4.123
:(Photomicrography)                                                          
2. :Electronic Analiticar                     I       ,       310             43,910                                                       3 .  -t
,'3allance                      
F,  I3 ohonogenezer                                              518
4. :Imrounoelectrohoresis  it                        1         ,010 ,         .010 ;       -       :      -       :       -123O
a. :Tissue Grinder                    ,       I       ,          2665,          266 ,       -       ,       -       ,      -                  266  ,     -
9. :Pressure Filter 12000 oil}                                   156            155                                                            5  
5a. :Autoratic Colony  Counter                                  1 030          1 039         -              -               -                .013
11. :iro Ho erttocit Centrifuge                                                         '                                                    1.162 
:N.650 Rang a sol J                                                                  
~~~~~~~~~~~.  .......  ................ ..........,,, .................. ...j_
,   Sub Total         .                .              .      25.821 ,                *                                     25.127 ,
-. . . . . . . . ..........2.6:. ..6..- ------------------------------------------------- --- --------                                        26.6:----..--....-----------.--



- 101 -
ANNEX 6
Table 16
INDONESIA                                                         (3 of 3)
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT
(LABORATORY)
LOCATION: FRESH WATER FISHERIES SUKAMANDI
.   . .-    *-                                                                                                                             . .-. .~~~~~~- 
No.,             I t e a                  Quantity       Unit Cost    Total Cost  ---------------------------------------
I               I              I                   ~I                2       :      3        ;              ,
C. :Nutrition Lab                     ,               :               ,              :              ,                                             I
1. :Oial 0 Irks  plst foro           ,          118                             618         -       ;                     -        :         6
,Balance                         :                               ' :            :                                             '
2.  Blender, Capacity 5 litre                 I               i,86 '          I 3a6         -              -              -                   86
3. :Refrigerator                      ,         I.S                           5.510         -              -              -10
4. :Extraction Crude Fibre in    ,              1             6, 42Z          6,422                                        -               6,422;
'Feed                             :                                                             :
5  :Oxygen Bon Caiori Neter                   I              10,098          10,098                                                       10 ,096 
6. :PeIlet Press                      ,                            0            380Jac  -.. -                                                380
1.  Kjectec systes for protein   '            1              12,640          12,40          -        a     -                              12,,40
8. ;Soxhlet for fat                          .1     . ,       4a00,           4,060         -                                              4,00
. ~ ~   ~      ~       ~       ~~~~~ .  .8  .                                           84
9.  Freezer Oryer                     a       1               8.840           8.840                  a              a
10  :Oven                              a       I                1.581:         1,581,                        -       ,                       1,581,
11. :Muffle Furnace                    a       I                  969a             69                                                          969a
12.  Willey Kill                               I                 2.195         2.195                        -                               21
13. :Steve and shaker adaptor                  I       ,        1,240 1' 240                 -        a     -        ,' a                   1240
Sub Total                                                             a,439                                                       a .'39
',  Tao t a 1         ',               ,               ,    200,000,                 ,               '              ,a200,000
a:   :     :ota:                       :a:a:                       :     :    :     : :        :    :     :     : ::a:                         a
~~~~........



- 102 -
ANNEX 6
Table 17
INDONESIA
Agricultural Research Management (ARM) Project
Scientific Equipment
LOCATION:  Agro-Economics, Bogor                                     US$
Unit     Total        ----------Year-----------
No       Item               Quantity   cost      cost         1     2      3     4      5
CAER
Stage III Devt. of
existing system
1.  Mainframe (ILAN             1     22,000    22,000              -   22,000    -    -
Control Unit
(gateway)
2.  Local Area Network          1     15,000    15,000         -    -   15,000    -    -
File Server
3.  Local Area Network         16      1,000    16,000         -    -   16,000
Adaptors & Cable
4.  Additional Memory Cards   8        1,000      8,000        -    -    8,000
5.  Software                           3,000      3,000        -    -    3,000
6.  Modem                       2         100     2,000        -    -    2,000
7.  Integrated LAN and         60        500    30,000         -    -   30,000
telephone cables
8.  LAN adaptor card            5         800     4,000        -    -    4,000
TOTAL:                                     100,000                100,000



ANNEX 6
Table 18
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FURNITURE
SECRETARIAT                                                                                                             (US DolIar)
--------     -------        ------------------     ------------------------e-----------
*   *        *                      ~~~~~~~~~~Year
No.!          I t I n             Quantity    Unit Cost :Total Cost  -----------------------------------------------------------
i                           I                                                    I                                                   I
I                           I                          9                  I            2             3            4            5
-------------------_-._-..--------------.--------------------------- ---__-------------------.--------... -------
A.OFFICE                       '                         '
l.10irectors Writing Dcsk               1 i         300        5,400         - -          5,400        -      '                  -
2.0Office Disk-Large                    60:         200 1    12,000          -           12,000        -            -      I     -      9
3.:Office Desik-Sall                    90           175:     15,7501        - 1         15,750        -     - :                 - 
4.Ateting Table                         sO           ISOI    12,000 1        -     1    12,0001        -            -            -
5.:Typing ODsk                          60:          100 1     6,000:        -     I      6,000:       -
6. 'Director's Chair           1         18:         1501       2,700        -            2,700 t                   -            -
7.!Officer's Chair                      60:          125:       7,500 1      -      I     7,500 1      -                         -
B.:Staff/Clerical Chair                 90           100 1      9,000 1,00 I 0                         I            -            -
9.:Chairs for Meeting Table            160           100       16,000        -           16,000:       -            -            -
1O.ITypist Chair                1        60            75        4,500 1             I     4,500        -                   I     -
ll.!Rvcords Cabinet                      651          150 1      9,750 :      -            9,750        -            -            -
12.1Vlsitors Chairs (zicel I              18 1        400 1      7,200 1      -      1     7,2001                    -            -
13.hloak Shelf-Library          1        20 1         450 :      9,000        -      I     9,0001       -             I        -
14. Filling Cabinet             1        60 1         125 1      7,500 1      -            7,5001       -            -             -
15.haook.Shelf                  1         201         350 1      7,000 1             I     7,000 1                          I      - 
16.Reading Shelf                1        20           3001       6,0001       -      I     6,0001       -         I  -
17.:Chairs for Reading Desk             1350           50       7,500 1      -            7,500:                     -     I      -
12.1Book Shelf Catalogs         1         25:         450:      11,250 1                  11,250 1.    -
19.ICast-Chest (safe)                      5          950        4,750 1      -            4,750        -             -            -
20.itaboratory Chairs                    -   I         60          -   1I                    -                 I                   -
21.:White Board laritting)   1            40          180 1      7,200:       -      i     7,200         -            -     I
22.:Co2puter Desk                         401         125:       5,000 I      -            5,000        -                          -
23.5Chairs for Coeputer Desk 1            40           so0       2,000 :      -              ,000       -             -            -
: :  - -I - - -------- - -----
Total                                          175,000 1             1 175,000                  1
:                    :            ,     ~      ~     ~     ~       ~ :  1  1           '             1            1     
--                                     --          ---       -- -                     -------------
SECRE.WMKI



- 104 -
ANNEX 6
Table 19
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FURNITURE
AGRO ECONOMIC                                                                                                           US Dollar)
----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----------
Year
4o2           I t   a*            Quantity    Unit Cost  Total Cost  - -    ---------------------------------
':                 I      '     2      :     3      '     4            5
A. OFFICE                                                             '                                      '
IiDlrector's Writing Desk               3          300          900        -      :        900       -            -            -
2.'Office Desk-Large                    25:         200        5,000        -            5,000         -            _
3.:Office Desk-Saull           '        60:         175 :    10,500         -            10,500 '      -            -
4.:nceting Table                        20          150        3,000        -            3,000         -            -            -
STyping Desk                  .        20          100 :       ,000 :      -            2,000         -            -
6.:Dircetor's Chalr            *         3          150          450        -               450              -            -
7.:Officer's Chair                      25          125        3,125        -             3,125        -            -
8.:Staff/Clerical Chair                 60          100        6,000 '      -      '     6,000:        -            -      :     -
9.:Chalrs for nesting Table             60           100       6,000 '      -             6,000        -            -            -
lO.'rypfst Chair               *         20:          75        1,500 :      -             1,500        -            -
Il.Records Cabinet                      30:         150        4,500        -      :      4,500        -      :     -
12.:Vlsitors Chairs (:ice)                4          400        1,600 :      -      '      1,600 '      -            -      '     -
13. Book Shelf-Library u                  s5         450        3,600 '         -          3,600:       -            -            -
14.FillinS Cabinet                       60          125         ,  500         -          7,500        -            -            -
15. :book Shelf                           6          350 :      2,100 1       -            2,100 '      -            -            -
16.Reading Shelf                          5          300         1,500 '             :     1,500:       -      :     -            -
17.:Chairs for Reading Desk  '           60:          50        3,000         -     '      3,000:       -            -            -
18.'Book Shelf Catalogs                   3          450         1,350:       -     '      1,350:       -      '     -.           -
19. :Cast-Chest (safe)          '          I'        950          950 :       -              950        -
20.:Laboratory Chairs                     61:          60        3,660       3-      '     3660         -            -            -
21.:White Board (vritting)    '            3          180 '        540 :      -              540        -            -             -
22. :Cosputer Desk                         I I        125          375 1      -      '       975
23. :Chairs for Cosputer Desk '            7           50s         350        -      '       350 '      -      '     -             -
.  :             :            :----- -~~~~~~~--:---------:- --_ - ---  ------  ------                         ---------- 
*          Total                                            70,000                    70,000
|  ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~~ .     I  .  .           I            I
*            I            *            *            *                          S      
I..                               .            .             *            *            .            * 
AGRO.WI



- 105 -
ANNEX 6
Table 20
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT (ARM) PROJECT
FURNITURE
MARINE FISHERIES                                                                                                        (US Dollar)
-------- - -------------                   --- ------------------------------- - ------
Year
No.'          I t * *           IQuntity    Unit Cost ;lotal Cost  ------------------------------------------------------   _
2            3            4
A.:OFFICE
I.:Director's Writing Desk               3          300 1        900         -            -              900
.ZOfficc Desk-Large                    S0o         200 I    10,000 1        -                   1    10,0001 
3. Offics Desk-Seall                    60          175 1    10,500 I       _      -               1 10,00 0        -
4.!Muting Tabli'                        30 '        150        4,500 :      -             -     1      4,500
5.ltyping Ozesk                         351         100:       3,5001       - _       I     _          3,500
b6.Director's Chair                      3:         150          450 1      -      1      -      1       450       i-            -
7.:Officer's Chair                     o50          125        6,250:        -                         6-  t  ,250  -            -
8.Staff/Clerical Chair       '         60          100        6,000t       -                            0 -  t  0,oot  :        _
9.IChairs for Netting Tabie [           B01         1001       6,0001        -     I            I      6,000               1
IO. Typist Chair                         26           751       1,9501        -     t      -            1,9501       -      I     -
l.I'Rccords Cabinet             i        41          150        6,150 1       -     t      -            6,150        -            -
12.'Visitors Chairs Izice)                51         400        2,000:        -                   I -  1  2,0001     -      I     -
13.:8ook Shelf-Library          '        10          450 t      4,500 1       -     t      -      I     4,500 I      -            -
14.Filling Cabinet                       s o01        125       10,000 :      -      I                 10,000        -      I     -
153.look Shelf                            8          350        2,800 :       -            -      I     2,8001       -            -
16.!Readinq Shelf               1         5'         300 1       1,00                                   1,500 1       -     '      -
17lChairs for Reading Desk  1            So            501       2,5001       - I-                      2,500        -             -
18. Book Shelf Catalogs         '         21          450          900t       -      I     -      t        900:      -      :      -
1.SCast-Chost (safe)                       I I        9501         950 1      -      I     -               9501      -      '      -
20.1t.aboratory Chairs                   1001          60:       6,0001       -      I     -            6,0001        -     :      -
21.lWhite Board lNritting)                 5 1        180 t        900 1      -            -      '        9001       -     I      -
22. Cosputer Desk               1         10          125        1,250 1      -            -             1,250        -     '      -
23. Chairs for Computer Desk I            10to         50          500 1      -      I     -               5001       -     i      -
I------                - -   _--      _I _                                                   --------
Total                         I            I    90,000 I                                90,000
**                 .             *            .            .       
NARINE.WKI



- 106 -
ANNEX 6
Table 21
INDONESIA
Agricultural Research Management (ARM) Project
Furniture
FRESH WATER FISHERIES                                                        US Dollars)
Unit     Total        ------     Year-----------
No       Item              Quantity   cost       cost        1      2     3      4     5
A. OFFICE
1.  Director's Writing Desk       5      300      1,500       -    -      -    1,500   -
2.  Office Desk - large          30      200      6,000        -    -     -    6,000   -
3.  Office Desk - small          60      175    10,500        -    -      -   10,500   -
4.  Meeting Table                30      150      4,500       -    -      -    4,500   -
5.  Typing Desk                  30      100      3,000       -    -      -    3,000   -
6.  Director's Chair              5      150        750        -    -     -       750   -
7.  Officer's Chair              30      130      3,900       -    -      -    3,900   -
8.  Staff/Clerical Chair         60      105      6,300        -    -     -    6,300   -
9.  Chairs for Mtg. Table        60      100      6,000       -    -      -    6,000   -
10. Typist Chair                 30       80      2,400        -    -     -    2,400   -
11. Records Cabinet              25      155      3,875       -    -      -    3,875   -
12. Visitor's Chairs              6      400      2,400       -    -      -    2,400   -
13. Bookshelf - Library          15      455      6,825       -    -      -    6,825   -
14. Filing Cabinet               60      125      7,500        -    -     -    7,500   -
15. Bookshelf                    10      355      3,550        -    -     -    3,550   -
16. Reading Shelf                 9      300      2,700        -    -     -    2,700   -
17. Chairs for Reading Desk    60         60      3,600        -    -     -    3,600   -
18. Bookshelf Catalogs            6      450      2,700        -    -     -    2,700   -
19. Cast-Chest                    1      950        950        -    -     -       950   -
20. Laboratory Chairs            85       60      5,100        -    -     -    5,100   -
21. White Board (writing)         5      180        900        -    -     -       900   -
22. Computer Desk                10      135      1,350        -    -     -    1,350   -
23. Chairs for Computer Desk   10         60        600        -    -     -       600   -
Subtotal                               86,900                        86,900
B. GUEST HOUSE/HOUSING
1.  Visitor's Chair              30      250      7,500        -    -     -    7,500   -
2.  Wardrobe - Large             30      215      6,450        -    -     -    6,450   -
3.  Dining Table                 30      105      3,150        -    -     -    3,150   -
4.  Dining Chairs               120       40      4,800        -    -     -    4,800   -
5.  Double Beds                  30      205      6,150        -    -     -    6,150   -
6.  Single Beds                  60      155      9,300        -    -     -    6,150   -
7.  Dressing Table               30      200      6,000        -    -     -    6,000   -
8.  Food Shelf                   30      150      4,500        -    -     -    4,500   -
9.  Wardrobe - Small             30      175      5,250        -    -     -    5,250   -
Subtotal                               53,100                        53,100
TOTAL:                                140,000                       140,000



- 107 -                                ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Incremental Proiect Costs: Phasing of Costs and Finance a/
1989-   1990-   1991-   1992-   1993-
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    Total
Rupiahs (Billion)
Investment Costs
Govt. of Indonesia         0.4      0.8     0.6      0.4      0.1       2.3
IBRD                       4.7      8.9     7.8      6.9      3.7      32.0
Cofinancier                1,3    1.4       1        0..-9    0.8       5.6
Subtotal                   6.4    11.1      9.6      8.2      4.6      39.9
Recurrent Costs
Govt. of Indonesia         0.7      1.6     2.7      4.6      7.5 a/  17.1
IBRD                       2Q0    3.73Z    9.9       .8         3 k/  26.7
Subtotal                   2.7      5.3     7.6    11.4    16.8       43.8
Grandtotal                       9.1    16.4    17.2    19.6    21.4        83.7
US$ (Millions)
Investment Costs
Govt. of Indonesia         0.3      0.5     0.4      0.2      0.0       1.4
IBRD                       2.8      5.3     4.7      4.1      2.3      19.2
Cofinancier                0.8      08      0.7    -0.&6      0.5       3.4
Subtotal                   3.9      6.6     5.8      4.9      2.8      24.0
Recurrent Costs
Govt. of Indonesia         0.4      1.0      1.6.    2.8      4.5      10.3
IBRD                       1.2      .2      3.0      4.1 5J.6          16.1
Subtotal                   1.6      3.2     4.6      6.9    10.1       26.4
Grandtotal                       5.5     9.8    10.4    11.8    12.9        50.4
a/     Including taxes and duties estimated at US$0.8 million.



- 108
ANNEX 7
Table 2(a)
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
AARD Budget 1974/75 TO 1988/89
Billion q^                                    U5S
:       901            Grant  A  ^f Total
Fisca! Year  Routine  Develoosent  Estates  Totalts' :  Total  External   Total                      3.'9
.............. ............................_._...._,______..................... , ______........
!974/75          !.           2.8          1.4        5.3       12.7        4.0      16.7          76
1975/76          1.9          3.8          1.7        7.3        17.7       *.!      22.0          O
1976/77          2.1          .1'           -        10.2       24.7        !.5      '3.2          74
1977/l?          2.7        !0.0'           -        12.7       30.7       12.7      43.4          7!
1978/79          3.'         11.7           .        15.0       36.1       12.3      48.4          75
1979/80          3.6         13.5                    17.1       27.4        4.2      36.6          "
1990191          5.5        !6.6          3.9        25.9       41.4       16.0      57.4           2
199!/92          7.4        !".6          4.4        30.5       47.2       19.2      66.'
!992193          9.!         19.2         7.5        34.9       5!.2       24.1                     9
19C3/94         .97          17.4"2        5.4       31.6       32.0       31.4      63.4          50
1994/S          7.'         39.0"        6.0        32.7       29.4       32.9      ".2           47
M9V5/86          9.5        22.5         !1.5        '3.5       39.5       22.4      '1A
1996/87         11.5        30.2          11.2       '2.9        29.9      40.2      C0.! 
1997/98         11.24         5.7        0.39        17.4       !0.7        9. 7      0 1 :        '
19B/89         12.80          5.8        0.33       18.9        11.4      40.1       25            36.6
I    Includes all of estate crco cess
" Includes researcn ooeratWons c:soonent from estate croo C!55
"    Excludes revenue inccie (see Table 97'



- 109 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2(b)
TA9LE D2
UTMLI!ATION Cf 4ARO ROUTINE BUOGET 1990/81 TO 1987/98
.....................................................
'illion Ro)
................................... .............................................................................................. .
:    Salaries   :Goods  &  Service:  maintenance   : T  r  a  v  e  I  :   Total
No.:  Fiscal  Year  :------------------------ -------............
::9.Ro  :    S     :9.Ro        :            : 9.Ro         1         B.RR    :   S  : 8.Rp   :    S  :   .Ro
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...................... .............................................. .......... ............. ........
1.:    1990/1991    :3.9   :70    :0.                      :1           :   0.6 : 11           :0.2    :4                   5.5
2.  :   1991/19P2    : 4.9              66    .   >3    :   17           :   0.9       13         0.3          4            7.4
3.       1992/199'!           5.4       67    :   1.4           17           1.0       12      :0.3    :   4                8.0
4.        1983/1984    : 6.0  : 69    :               !.5    :   17      :   0.9  :  10        :0.3    :   3          :     8.7
5.  :   1994/1985    : 5.4  : 7!                     .4         1       :   0.7:    9         :0.2    :   2          :     7.6
6.:    19e5/1996    : 6.6   : 70    :                .9         19     :     0.8:    9            0.2 :        2      :       .5
7.   :   1986/1987    : 9.5   : 74                 2.0    :   17         :   0.  :   7        : 0.2    :   2         :   11.5
.  :   1987/1988    : .6  : 75    :   1.9    :   17                     :   0.7  :   6        : 0.2    :   2         :   11.4
9   1988/889   9.3  72    2.4   19                                           0.9   7    0.2    2    12 . 8
~~~~~~,,,,,,,,,,,,........................................... ... ...  ----------------------------------------.



4      V4
_ 4       0        en   en~0-.,m 4Cren4D    
o   = o         4e=-                       ' O fl4
,,   o    m    ms   o C  o0   _ , e  i     ' 4 .0
o  m  C _ m-o 44n0m  O%- o
tn     S_ _~        _n     Z        44)mm
-.   e-ne                 059IO o   4Zn _  
44 -, -4o ""    Zo , = o - . v
_ 4               m _ o 44   -in  5  444
-:  a       enm a 
_444.4*. _          - _4-4               4444
4U4  r-U U4)-04)4                         44_  m
~~~~~~~*                          o      n$_x   -}s   4404
,_ * _4044  4)*44_40r 4400400444                  44-       - 
* * 4444    **             -0t4l*0                .4 o  .
,,_    _|   __*   s @    b  -         ..:@ 
*   444O)O444.4400_4_4               44)..&. c       444n
|   4  4      4                           .  o        44no uL444  @o-fl
* 44s444444440D 0*0               -40444             * 4a% .4ss o -_o
4   4044          04-4,00,4.                      44    ,-e_- -   S  
4    4444J*04044O4                              444. _0 _        en3
u o4444   ..04444)a4.0-                           444  o   *    fo_obb@l 20    C -_
4l -   04 04                       -    4         4-4                 -  - , ,t_
" 44.444  -.o *0   o  _..44.)*                    4.0            "             nE  1
4    44*4  *  4 - 044-O000**'4_ 0                  4 Obl OXs
u 444.440          *.44* ,444.0 oOW4J   _ 
.. 4 4  4  4 4                    .    -      .      0                      0... ..r 
,, 44444 ,04 *       4.-4.40-4                    4440
u*_4*_440           _            ,s-  0s       440
044b        _o9 *  4 _   .44) -4 4 *444  O 4
4)444        -                                44            >_z _OLSs  
4'4.4. J.'4-0 -     -       --  04         444 )4   E
4 4-4 42-44)0444                                  _4%. 40 _@9*0 _*_L-l4|
040           0.     4 4o0-   -,               444,0.o 
*   ..,4o.44  00404. S ..44J*4.')               44* _       _
4.444)  ..)40             *....440)               .
u01 44 U0 . 000   _   40   040 44)   o o 44{  



- 111 -
ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT PROJECTIONS BY SEMESTER
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Semester                                             Proiect
Semester       Cumulative        Cumulative
(US$M)          (US$M)          (Percent)
1990      1                                1.0               1.0              2.8
2                                2.0               3.0              8.5
1991      3                                3.2               6.2             17.6
4                                3.8              10.0             28.3
1992      5                                3.4              13.4             38.0
6                                3.8              17.2
1993      7                                3.4              20.6             48.7
8                                4.2              24.8             58.4
1994      9                                3.3              28.1             79.6
10                                3.9              32.0             90.6
1995    11                                 2.3              34.3             97.2
12                                1.0              35.3            100.0



File: equip2
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ARM-I1
Schedule of Civil Works Procurement
1989-89                      1989-90                      1990-91                         1991-92                   1992-93                       1993-94
AARD Secretariat                           -       xuonuuxxuux --------zzzzzzzzzzzrzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
Institute of Marine Fisheries                      muxumnxuxxx    -------zzzzuzzzzzzzzzzzuzzzzzzuzzzzzzzzzz
Institute of Food Crops - Post Harvest                                          XXXXXXXXXXX----------ZZOZZZZOZZOZOZZOZ
Institute of Agricultural Economics                                                      ouoxonox --------zzzzzzzzzzozzoo zozooozooo 00
Institute of Inland Fisheries                                                              uxoonoonun   --------ZZOZZOZZZZZOZZOZOOZZzz OZZZOZZZnOOOOOOz ooOOOOOzzzzzzzozOzz
Institute of Estate Crops Biotechnology                                                                              onoox o                   oox ------- zzzzzzzzuooozozzoozozzozozzz
Institute of Horticulture - Post Harvest                                                                             ouuuxxxx  ----------   zozzz ooooz oozzzozzzozozzzz
Phasing:
Design                  onuno
Procurement        -----
Construction        ozzozzoz
'09



- 113 -
ANNEX 9
File:  Schedule                                                                                           Page  2
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Vehicle Procurement
1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94   Total
CARP                               4                                                 4
Secretariat                                                                5         5
Foodcrops                                                        4                   4
Horticulture                       4                                                 4
Industrial Crops                                       5                             5
Estate Crops                                 3                                       3
Estate Crops Biotech                                   3                             3
Fisheries Inland                             2                                       2
Fisheries Marine                             1                                        1
Fisheries Coastal                            2                                       2
Animal Science                               3                                       3
Ag Economies                                                     3                   3
NLAS                                         2                                       2
Soils                                        2                                       2
Totals            8        15         a         7         5        43



File:  equip
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ARM-I)
Equipment Procureeent Schedule (ICR)
Furniture Procurement Schedule (LCB)
1988-89                       1989-90                       1990-91                          1991-92                     1992-93                        1993-94
A If J J A S O N D J F 11    A N J J A S 0 N D J F n    A 11 J J R S O N 0 J F N    A N J J A S O If D J F H    A n J J A S 01  D  J F H    A If J J A S a il D J F 1
A. Computers letc.)  (ICB)                                  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX0oOooo------------2zzzzz
B. Scientific Equipeent
For Year 2                                                                xxxxxxxxoooooo------zzzzzzzz
(Marine Fisheries, Horticulture,
AARD secretariat, NLAS)
For Year 4 AXIX000000------------ZZZZZ2
(Inland Fisheries, Estate
Crops Biotech)
C. Fare Equipment
For Years I and 2                                                   xxxxxxoooooo----------zzzzzzzzzz
(Food Crop Horticulture)
For Year I                                                                                                                              xxxxooooo-------------zzzzzzzz
(Industrial Crops, Inland Fisheries)
D. Furniture (LCB)
For Year 2                                                                XXXXXX0nn 0ooo ----------zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzZ
(Ag. Economics and Secretariat)
For Year 3 and 4                                                                                                                       xxxxooo oo------zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
(Marine and Inland Fisheries)                                                                                                                                                                                              oto
'MO
Prepare Bidding Document and Advertise            XXXInX
Issue lnvitation to Bid                            00oo0
Open Bids and Evaluate                    - - - - - - -
Award and Delivery                   ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ22Z



- 115 -
ANNEX 9
File:  technica                                                                                              Page  4
INDONESIA
A6RICULTURE RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Progras
t                                           5  1989/90   t  1990/91   S  1991/92   t  1992/93   J   1993/94  1
I  Foreign                                  t             I              I              I             I              I
*    _   _                                  t                                           *             $ I            I
I  Project Coordinator                      l------------I------------I------------I------------I----------- t
I  Research Programeer                      t------------I----------  t                 I             I              I
I  Research Managesent Specialist (A)  t-------            t-------      t-------       1-------      I-------       I
I  Research Manageoent Specialist (B)  I---------   I---------   I---------   I---------   I--------- 
S                                           I             S              t              l             S              t
I  Local                                    t             I              I              I             I
t                                           S             S              t              t             S              l
t  Civil Works Specialist                   ------------I------------I------------I----------------------- it
I  Financial Specialist                     t------------I------------I------------I------------I----------- t
I  Research Management Specialist (A)  t-----             t-----         I-----l        l-----        I-----         S
I  Research Management Specialist (B)  I    ----    I    ----It   ----i    t   -                          ----t      I
I  Research Managenent Specialist (C)  I            ---- I        ----  I        ---- I        ----I t        ----1 t
I  Research Management Specialist (D)  t             ---- :        ---- I         ---- J         ---- t        ---- t
I  Architect for Civil Works                t------------I------------t----------- t                  t              t
I                                           I             I              t              I             I              I



- 116 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5
File: foreign
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Foreign and Local Training
t                                            t   Staff  I              I           I           I           I          I
t                                            t   Nos.   1 1989/90  t 1990/91   t 1991/92 t 1992/93 t 1993/94 t
I   A.  Foreign Training                                  I J          I            I          I           I          I
t   PhDs (start in year 12 t                         6    ----------I----------I--------- t----                      I
2   PhD's (start in year 2)                  1       7   t             t----------t---------I---------t----           I
t   MS    (start in year 1)                  I      10   -----------l----------t              I----:       I          I
I   MS    (start in year 2)                  2       5   t             t----------I---------t----:         I 
*   MS    (start in year 3)                  2       5  2              t           J--------t---------t---           I
I   B.  Local Training                       1            I            I            I          S           I          2
t        --------------t
I   PhD's (start in year 1)                  I      10 ----------I----------I---------t----               t          I
t   PhD's (start in year 2)                  1      11   t             I----------t---------t------- -----            I
I   MS    (start in year 1)                  t      15 ----------t----------I----             I           t          I
I   MS    (start in year 2)                  2      15   t             I----------t------       ----       t          I
I   MS    (start in year 3)                   2     10 I               I tI---------I------                 ----      I
I   S02 Library Science/Communication  I                  I            I           I           I           t          I
J      (start in year 3)                     t      45   1       -    I       -    t---------2t------ t    -    t
2   S02 Coaputer Science/Laboratory          t            I            I            I          I           I          I
t      (start in year 4)                     1      45   I             t            t    -    I---------J-------- :
t   St 5 start in year 3)                    1      25   S       -    I       -     I---------I---------t--:          I
2   S1 (start in year 4)                     2      25   2             1            t          2---------t--------,S
t                                            I            2            2            2    t                 t          I
t   Non-degree Training                      J    545   I----------J----------t---------I---------tI-------- 
I   Language Training                        2      20   2----------t----------I---------t----------------- t:
t                                            t-           I            I                       I           I          I
t    --  I-                                         t                                    I t



- 117 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents on Data Available in Files
Background Reports
1.   Project Preparation Reports, AARD.  August 1987 and January 1988.
2.   Background Papers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 on ARM I Project, AARD, January 1988.
3.   Agricultural Research and Development Program, AARD, January 1988.
4.   Discussion Paper - Approaches to Strengthening Research Institutions,
October 1987.
5.   An Analysis of the Recommendations and Their Implementation, AARD, August
1987.
6.   Review of AARD Research Reviews, AARD, June 1987.
7.   An Evaluation of the Organization and Management of AARD, AARD, 1986.
8.   An Evaluation of the Livestock Research Program of AARD, AARD, March
1987.
9.   An Evaluation of the Center for the Soil Research Program of AARD,
February 1987.
10. An Evaluation of the Industrial Crop Research Program of AARD, Vols. 1
and 2, AARD, August 1985.
11. An Evaluation of the Fisheries Research Program of AARD, AARD, December
1984.
12. An Evaluation of the Palwija Crop Research Program of AARD, Vols. 1 and
2, AARD, 1984.
13. An Evaluation of the Fruit and Vegetable Research Program of AARD, Vols.
1 and 2, AARD, 1984.
Staff Working Papers
1.   Cost Tables



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT I
Organizational Chart of The Ministry of Agriculture
Inspectorate                                                                      Secretariat
General                                                                          General
Directorate              Directorate              Directorate              Directorate                Agency for               Agency for                Agency for
General for               Eduafonr                  AgriculturalMasGinc
General for              General for              General for               Livesteck                   Traon in               Reveoprh & tMassGuidance                         co
Food Crops              Estate Crops               Fisheries                 Services                   Rriinesearchen&                                   (Bimas)
Provincial
Representatives
of the Minister
of Agriculture
ekAN4341 Od
'Z
rt



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT I
Existing Organizational Structure of
The Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD)
AGENCY FOR
AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH &
DEWVELOPENT
NATIONAL                                                    CENTER F
LIBRARY            RCC FOR             RCC FOR            FO  GOMANAGEMENT
SECRETARIAT            FOR            HORTICULTURAL           ANIMAL            ECONOMICS          BOARD FOR
AGRICULTURAL           CROPS             SCIENCES            RESEARCH          ESTATE CROPS
SCIENCES
CENTER
AGRICULTURAL          RCC FOR             RCC FOR             RCO                ETRFRMNGMN
STATISTIC &        FOOD CR             INDUSTRIAL           FISrCC FORI        CENTR FR           MANAG NFO
DATA                                  CROPS                                                         AR
PROCESSING
RI                              RI
MARINE          MEDAN                             R
FISHERIES         RINECN                       PASURUAN
B     SUKAMAUDIKL | BANJARBAMU |  |   SLOK LEMBANG  RI SPICE &       RI                RI            SUNGAI           JEMBER
ROGFC         RUFCRRMH                           MEDICINAL        ANIMAL          FRESHWATER          PUTIH            RIEC
RIFC  RIFC          RIH             ~~~~~CROPS     PRODUCTION         FISHERIES          RIEC
SUKAMANDI  BANJARBARU          SOLOK               RI              RI                RIBORSEAW
RUAMNIF           RIFC             RIH            COCONUT          ANIMAL            COASTAL          BRGER             RIEMBC
|   RIFC    r 1  RIFC    l  l    RIH     l   | COCONUT  |  | DISEASES            AQUACULTURE          RIEC            RIEC
MALANG          MAROS                             TOBACCO &                                          MARIMAT           GETAS
RIFC            RIFC                           FIERCROP                                                RIR
TANJUNG         BANDAR-
MORAWA           KUALA
RI              RI
RCC     RESEARCH COORDINATING CENTER
rt
RIFC    RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR FOOD CROPS                                                                                         s,
RIH     RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR HORTICULTURE
EK\W43410B
RIEC    RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR ESTATE CROPS
RIES    RESEARr     TUTE FOR ESTATE SUGAR CANE
RI      RESEA'     TITUTE



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT I
Proposed Organizational Structure of
The Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD)
AGENCY FOR
AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH &
DEVELOPMENT
W~~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~ 1-1I 1- )                                  1
CENTER FOR           NATIONAL                                                     CENTER           MANAGEMENT
AGRICULTURAL           LIBRARY             RCC_FOR             RCC FOR            FOR AGRO           B       FOR
|RBOGOR EL SUKARAMI ||FOR             HORTICULTURAL          ANIMAL            ECONOMICS          ESATE COROP
PRESEAMMIRGC        AGRICULTURAL           CROPS              SCIENCES            RESEARCH      RI E           CROPS
PROGRAMMINGUSCIENCES
CENTER
AGRICULTURAL          ROCFOR              RCC FOR                                CENTER FOR         MANAGEMENT
SECRETARIAT         STATISTIC &         FOOD CROPS          INDUSTRIAL RER S F F 
DATA                                                      FISHERIE         SOILR RS C            BOARD FOR
PROCESSING
RI             EA                 IR 
MARINE          MEDAN                                             F
FISHERIES          RINCH I U                    PASURUAN
BOGOR          SUKARAMI         LEMBANG                               RIINUSGAITUEMBER
RIFC            RIFC              RIH            MEDICINAL         ANMLFRESHWATER                      PUTIH            IE
CROPS         PRDCINFISHERIES                       RIEC
SOLOK                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RISEBW
SUKAMANDI       BANJARBARU         SRIKAIMLCOASTALBGRSEAA
RIFC            RIFC              RIH            COCONUT          DSAE            AQUACULTURE                   RIEC    RE
MALANG      ~~MAROS                           TOBCC &MARIMAT                                                        GETAS
RIFC            RIFC                            FIBER CROPSRII
TANJUNG    H     BANDAR-
MORAWA           KUALA                          3
RCC       RESEARCH COORDINATING CENTER                                                RI               RI                          0
RIFC      RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR FOOD CROPS
RIH       RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR HORTICULTURE
EK\W4341 OC
RIEC      RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR ESTATE CROPS
RIES      RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR ESTATE SUGAR CANE
RI        RESEARCH INSTITUTE



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT I
Proposed Organization Structure for CARP
CENTER
FOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
PROGRAMMING(CARP)
DIVISION           DIVISION            DIVISION            DIVISION           DIVISION            DIVISION
FOR DATA         FOR PROGRAM         FOR BUDGETING      FOR EVALUATION           FOR            FOR RESEARCH
AND STATISTICS      FORMULATION                           AND MONITORING     COMPUTERIZATION      COLLABORATION
SUBDIVISION        SUBDIVISION
SUBDIVISION        SUBDIVISlON         SUBDIVIStON         SUBDIVISION       FOR COMPUTER        FOR RESEARCH
FOR STATISTICAL   FOR IDENTIFICATION   FOR BUDGETTING      FOR MONISIN           PROGRAM           COLLABORATIVE
DATA COLLECTION    AND ASSESSMENT       DEVELOPMENT        FO   OIOIGAND SYSTEM                    COPLLAORATIVE
DEVELOPMENTEXLRTO
SUBDIVISION        SUBDIVISION                            SUBDIVISION          SUBDIVISION
SUBDIVISION        FOR PROGRAM         FOR ROUTINE         SUBDIVISION       FOR TECHNICAL       FOR RESEARCH
FOR ANALYSIS       AND PROJECT         (RECURRENT)        FOR EVALUATION      FOSERVICE          COLLABORATION
FORMULATION         BUDGETTING                                                  NETWORK
CD
SUBDIVISION FR  SUBDIVISIONSUBDIVISION            SUBDIVISION         SUBDIVISION
L  SUBDIVISION FOR |L|   SUBDIVISION    l  |  FOR RESEARCH    L   FOR PROGRAM    L  FOR MANAGEMENT  SUBDIVISION FOR         4-
VISUALISATION      FOR PROGRAM        COLLABORATION       REPORTING AND        INFORMATION        ADMINISTRATION
AND DEVELOPMENT      COORDINATION         BUDGETTING        DEVELOPMENT            SYSTEM
EK\W4341 OA



0   -t.  HAILAND   105'   rio-      ri5'    J;<           1io-     o            liso y *Jr           1                      1is                        IBRD 2121e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 121
iAceb   \ CX,   '\,                                         _X/      @s  s         <> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~~~~~PHIUPPINES    ',-AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CENTERS,5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o th                        Chin      S ea             BRUNEI                                                               RESEA RC H    IN STITU TES   A N D   A ARD   SEC RETA RIA T
>>_ > ~~~~~~~MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                                   EAouhhNa SaNNA BRVm StZHAU
k n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.s-<                                                                                  RE EA C   lw fk         . /   I  .)* A   
V . 8 SUMATERA SELATAN   /t >                                                    .   ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '8  HJ   4 zzM 111AWA SIEM  M KA 1O
9 sR^^uUel t \;ustsnglS 1 Javo Sea UsngPnd4Y 0-6 S d 9< iS E i<~~~~~~."l 
1  X  SUM~~~~~~~~~~~~N APO E                                                                          RCMA   BAA  @){~MLngsBnaSaX\4  j A i
.2 21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                                                                                 SU^LAWS TEGAAIda cea e<  ft
3i 23 NUSSATEN8GAgATI^MR^                                    DenpT282 fOgO2--H  /                ,        .tC       rlUOR                  ,o      2hs0    400    f00o10
23        N RIAAN JAYA                                           u~w___-__Sn  w~ =S 0    4'.  u  g(_g2                                                              o      o     0      0      7
JAWATEIMRR A__._MIE
W. Y~OGART       _           -           L _b11                                                                                                                                                     ............ _bJ-z-
LA0PUN                                                                                                                          BURL,  A1'.b-2'1j  1                   J                      OVME    9



