Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3483
THE WORLD BANK
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
MOMBASA - NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE PROJECT
(LOAN 1133-KE)
June 8, 1981
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA: MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE
(LOAN 1133-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .        ...........................................................i
Basic Data Sheet ...................ii
Highlights ........................................................                 iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM ..............................1
Annex:      Borrower Comments .......................................                6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary .................................................                8
I.    Introduction ............................................                9
II.    Project Preparation and Appraisal .......................               10
III.    Project Implementation ..................................               11
IV.    Operating Performance ...................................               13
V.    Financial Performance ...................................               15
VI.    Institutional Developments ..............................               18
VII.    Economic Re-evaluation ..................................               19
VIII.    Role of the Bank ........................................               19
IX.    Conclusions .............................................               20
Annexes:   1.    Actual and Appraisal Estimate of Project Cost          ......     22
2.    Pipeline Traffic Forecasts .........................              23
3.    Operating Statements ..............................               24
4.    Comparative Balance Sheets ....................        j ....     25
5.    Cash Flow ..........................................              26
6.    Operating Statements ...............................              27
7.    Balance Sheets .....................................              28
8.    Financial Internal Rate of Return ....           ..............   29
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA: MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE
(LOAN 1133-KE)
PREFACE
The following is a performance audit on an oil products pipeline
project in Kenya for which a Loan (1133-KE, US$20.0 million) was made in June,
1975.    For all practical purposes the project was completed in February,
1978 when the pipeline went,     as scheduled, into commercial operation.       On
February 1, 1979, the original closing date of the loan, a small balance of
about one-quarter of a million dollars remained in the loan account, and is
being used to purchase fire fighting and other ancilliary equipment expected
to be delivered in early 1981; the closing date of the loan has been extended
accordingly. The Borrower provided the basic data for the Project Completion
Report (PCR) which was prepared by the Eastern Africa Ports, Railways, Avia-
tion and Pipelines Division. This project was briefly discussed with country
authorities during a mission undertaken by OED staff to audit other projects
in Kenya.
OED has reviewed the Appraisal and President's Reports, the Minutes
of the Executive Directors Meeting at which the project was considered, Bank
records and the PCR, and has found that the PCR adequately covers experiences
of implementing the project, as well as its ex-post justification.        OED has
found some of the findings of the PCR questionable and the Audit comments on
those as well as a few other points of interest, and highlights the role of
the Bank in the implementation of the project.
The draft Audit was sent to the Borrower for their comments, their
views are referenced in the text and attached in full in the Annex.






- ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT BASIC DATA SHEET
KENYA: MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE
(LOAN 1133-KE)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Expectation      Actual
Total Project Cost                                          82.92         113.02
Overrun (%)                                                 -           36.3
Loan Amount (US$ million)                                   20.00          20.00
Disbursed               )                                   -           19.74
Undisbursed             )                                   -            0.26
Cancelled               ) 09/30/80                          -              -
Repaid                  )                                   -             0.88
Borrower-s Obligation   )                                   -           26.49/a
Date of Project Completion                                  10/77
Proportion Completed by Expected Date (%)                     100             99
Proportion of Time Underrun/Overrun (%)                         0              0
Economic Rate of Return (%)                                    31             19
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursments
(US$ million)
FY76    FY77     FY78    FY79    FY80     FY81
Estimated                          7.0    18.0    20.0       -       -        -
Actual                            11.2    14.4    19.7     19.7    19.7     19.7
Actual/Estimated (%)               160      80       99      99      99       99
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original
Item                       Plan          Revisions              Actual
First Mention in Files                 -                -                   01/72
Government's Application               -                -                   02/72
Appraisal                              -                -                   06/74
Negotiations Date                      -                -                   04/75
Board Approval Date                    -                -               06/10/75
Loan Agreement Date                    -                -               06/27/75
Effectiveness Date                     -                -               12/23/75
Closing Date                       02/01/79        12/31/80
Borrower                                     Kenya Pipeline Company
Executing Agency                             Kenya Pipeline Company
Fiscal Year of Borrower                          01/01 - 12/31
Follow-on Project                                      None
/a   Includes foreign exchange adjustment.






- iii -
MISSION DATA
No. of     No. of                  Date of
Item               Month/Year    Weeks      Persons   Manweeks      Report
Identification             05/73        1           1           1         06/73
Preparation                10/73        1            1          1         11/73
Pre-appraisal              04/74        1           1           1         04/74
Appraisal                  06/74        2            3          6         07/74
Supervision I              06/75        1           1           1         06/75
Supervision II             11/75        2           1           2         12/75
Supervision III            09/76        2           1           2         10/76
Supervision IV             03/77        2           2           4         04/77
Supervision V              05/78        1           3           3         06/78
Supervision VI             05/79        1           2           2           -
Supervision VII            12/79        1           1           1         12/79
Supervision VIII           03/80        1           2           2           -
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                     Kenya Shilling (K Sh)/a
1974 (Appraisal Year Average)                        US$1 = K Sh 7.14
1975-76 (Average)                                    US$1 = K Sh 8.00
1977 (Average)                                       US$1 = K Sh 7.81
/a   Kenyan publications often use the "Kenya Pound" (KE).    This is a
notional unit equivalent to twenty KSh used solely for convenience.






- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA: MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE
(LOAN 1133-KE)
HIGHLIGHTS
The purpose of the loan was to assist the Government-owned Kenya
Pipeline Company (KPC) build a pipeline to solve the increasing problems the
country was experiencing in the moving of oil products from the refinery in
Mombasa to Nairobi and upcountry destinations. This objective was effectively
achieved. However, the expected rate of return of the project was affected by
cost overruns   (36%) and a significant decline in traffic volumes against
project estimates (about 33%). The economic rate of return of the project is
now estimated to be 19% compared with 31% expected at appraisal.
The question of pricing the services of KPC is a point of particular
interest.   Rather than charging marginal costs, the Company's tariffs cover
all costs, debt service, taxes and in addition, a large dividend to the
Government. KPC's exclusive right to carry all pipeable oil products between
Mombasa and Nairobi, and the Government's policy of setting         tariffs that
ensure the company's financial self-sufficiency raise the question of whether
the pipeline is operating as efficiently as possible.      While the Government
has declared a policy of financial self-sufficiency for the pipeline, no
similar position seems to be held for oil traffic on the railways. Opening of
the pipeline has compounded the financial problems of the railway through the
diversion of oil traffic and failure to raise the railways' charges on such
traffic, for movements particularly beyond Nairobi.
To assist the railways, and to avoid further damaging the road net-
work, the Audit argues that a proposed rail loading facility at the pipeline's
Nairobi terminal should be constructed and that the type of truck allowed to
haul oil should be closely controlled.
The Bank's assistance in helping the Borrower find co-financing for
the construction of the pipeline is commended but a closer assessment of the
foreign exchange effects of the terms of the co-financing should have been
made.






- 1 -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
KENYA: MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE
(LOAN 1133-KE)
1.        In the early 1970s, Kenya began experiencing problems with the
capacity and cost of transporting oil products from the refinery in Mombasa
to Nairobi and upcountry destinations.    Also affected were Uganda and other
neighboring countries to which part of the oil refined at Mombasa was ex-
ported.   Prior to that time, the products were shipped by rail.       By 1972,
however, the railway had lost about half the traffic to road transport,
despite higher trucking tariffs. The immediate purpose of the project was thus
to ease the heavy transport costs and thus ensure that adequate supplies of
oil reached Nairobi and upcountry locations efficiently and economically.
2.        The construction of the pipeline appeared to be an obvious solution.
However, it was intensively compared against the alternatives of (a) maintain-
ing the then existing 50:50 share of traffic between rail and road, under
improved operating conditions, and (b) shipping all the products by rail,
as had been the case a few years earlier.      Vis-a-vis both alternatives the
pipeline was found to be a superior economic solution, based on assumptions
and estimates about the costs of the project, the operating costs of the
system and the traffic throughput. It was estimated for example that it would
cost about double to move the products by rail than by the pipeline.        The
project was justified on the strength of this argument.      Implicitly it was
accepted that the railway could not have coped with the volume of traffic
anticipated.   In retrospect this assessment was probably correct:    given the
severe operational problems experienced by the railway because of the breakup
of the East African Community and its Railways Corporation, it would have been
difficult, if not impossible for the railway to cope with the traffic volumes
forecast at the time. However, the traffic volumes forecast did not material-
ize, so the question of whether the railway could have coped with the actual
volumes must remain moot.
3.        The key variable affecting the viability of the project was the
traffic forecast.   In fact, throughput on the pipeline was about 50% below
expectations in the first year of operation (1978) and about 30% below
in the second.   In 1980 traffic is expected to be about 33% below forecast,
and the pipeline's capacity, which at appraisal was expected to be reached by
about 1990, will now not be reached, if present trends continue, until well
beyond the year 2000.     Two elements contributed to actual traffic falling
below forecasts. Firstly, the 1975 appraisal estimates for the 1974 consump-
tion did not reflect the immediate impact of the 1973 oil price increase.
Consumption, instead of rising as expected, simply stagnated in 1974 in
response to the sharp rise in prices of late 1973 and early 1974.     Secondly,
significant volumes of exports to Uganda did not materialize as a consequence
of unforeseeable political events in that country. While the appraisal
report's estimated rate of growth of Kenyan oil consumption for the period
1975 to 1979 was accurately reflected in actual growth, forecasts throughout



- 2 -
were too high because the forecast for the base year was overestimated.
Most of the products now being moved by the pipeline are for Kenyan internal
consumption but, instead of projecting, as at appraisal, a 5.5% growth beyond
1979, the Bank is now estimating a consumption growth of not more than 3% for
the next decade (1980 to 1990).
4.        The ex-post viability of the project has also been affected by the
cost overruns experienced during construction, by worldwide inflation and by
the realignment of currency values.    The statement in the Completion Report
that the project was completed with a "relatively modest" cost overrun of 30%
is somewhat misleading.    If comparable items are taken into account and the
cost of the pipe excluded, the overrun would amount to 88% over appraisal
estimates.   An important saving was made on the pipe, which was later used
to help finance the rather heavy overruns experienced on other items, partic-
ularly the civil works and telecommunications (see PCR Annex 1). That such a
saving would be possible was known at the time the project was presented to
the Bank-s Board because bids for significantly lower amounts than the engi-
neer's estimate had already been received about five months earlier. A
corresponding adjustment should have been made to the estimates but was not;
thus, these savings acted in effect as a significant additional contingency
allowance for the project.   Inflation, the need to relocate some sections of
the pipeline, and the realignment of the US dollar vs. the Japanese yen
account for much of the overrun in the civil works.     The overrun in telecom-
munications is explained by changes in the operational scheme finally used in
the running of the pipeline as against that envisaged earlier. The overrun in
vehicles and equipment is largely unexplained.
5.        As a result of higher costs and lower traffic than anticipated, the
difference between the costs of moving oil on the pipeline and moving it by
rail is now not of the same order of magnitude as estimated at appraisal. The
balance, however, seems to be still in favor of the pipeline as shown by the
ex-post economic rate of return of the project (19%).
6.        KPC has a monopoly in the transport of white products between
Mombasa and Nairobi because the oil companies are contractually bound to use
KPC exclusively for such movements.    This monopoly position might have shel-
tered KPC from pressures to maintain its competitiveness and to keep its costs
under strict control!/.    Also, the Government has indicated (and the Loan
Agreement so provides) that KPC should be financially self-sufficient and
yield a return on the Government's investment in it.
7.        Because KPC's capital costs were largely financed with short-term
borrowing, mostly at commercial rather than concessionary interest rates, the
immediate debt burden of the pipeline is rather heavy and the cash require-
ments correspondingly large.   In addition, because the Government has claimed
an annual dividend of KSh 80 million (about US$10 million), KPC-s tariff is
now about twice the rail rate and 12% more than the truck rate for white oil
productsl/.   This pricing policy, in which tariffs cover all current finan-
cial costs and taxes and provide an important transfer to the public treasury
1/   For KPC's view, see attached Annex.



- 3 -
may lead to distorted pricing relationships between pipeable and nonpipeable
products (white oils vs. black oils) to reflect the higher transport costs of
using the pipeline.   It is too soon yet to analyze the price effects of the
pipeline and this Audit merely cautions in this direction because in as much
as white and black oils may be technological substitutes for one another these
distortions could aggravate energy misuse in an oil-short country like Kenya.
8.        Construction of the pipeline clearly adversely affected the rail-
ways. This was recognized and accepted at appraisal. However, although some
measures were suggested in the Appraisal Report to help the railways alleviate
the impact of the loss of traffic, there was no attempt made, on the part of
the Bank, to ensure that such measures were effectively implemented.         For
example, the construction of a rail loading facility at the Nairobi terminal
of the pipeline was designed to ensure that the railways had a fair opportun-
ity to participate in the carrying of white products beyond Nairobi.       Under
assurances that such a facility would be built with local financing, it was
left out of the Bank project.    However, an adequate facility was never built
and is a principal cause of trucks now carrying a significant part of the
traffic despite rail rates being significantly below truck rates!/.
9.        The railway tariff, which is also controlled by the Government, is
50% below the truck rate.    Unlike KPC, the railways are not allowed to price
their services to ensure self sufficiency.      As oil is still an important
component of rail traffic (black products to Nairobi and all products beyond),
a tariff increase would not only reflect a more consistent Government policy
in the transport sector, but significantly improve the financial performance
of the railways. The Audit suggests that consideration be given to two
actions which would help dampen the impact on the railway:      (a) construction
of the rail loading facility at the Nairobi terminaL!/, and (b) realignment
of railway tariffs.
10.       At appraisal it was estimated that an important part of the benefits
of the pipeline would come from reduced damage to the highway network.       The
intensity of oil traffic and the overloading of trucks on the Mombasa-Nairobi
highway was stated as one of the main causes for its bad condition. A similar
situation now occurs on the highway west of Nairobi.      Oil traffic that for-
merly had moved beyond Nairobi by rail is now being carried by KPC to Nairobi
and, in the absence of a proper rail loading facility, by truck beyond.
1/   KPC examined and dropped the rail loading facility project (see Annex,
Piperail project) on the grounds that its costs were too high to generate
a profit.    KPC instead favors extending the pipeline beyond Nairobi.
However, Bank staff have reviewed the pipeline extension project and have
found it uneconomic.     Although the rail loading facility may not be
financially profitable to KPC the project would appear to be economically
sound and the Government should assist its implementation.



- 4 -
Measures should be instituted to protect the road beyond Nairobi from undue
damage. One means of achieving that objective would be to have the oil carried
on the railway.   In addition, the Government should ensure that whatever oil
is loaded on trucks is moved on adequate vehicles. All too often road tankers
are single rear axle trucks fitted with oversized tanks, thus prone to be
overloaded and to damage the road. The limited success in controlling
truck overloading by means of enforcing axle weight regulations makes the
alternative of controlling the vehicle rather than the load worth pursuing.
11.       The innovative approach followed by the Bank in assisting Kenya to
find co-financing for the project should be commended. Official co-financing
was sought from major materials and equipment manufacturing countries, the use
of which was tied to one of its own nationals winning international competi-
tive tenders for the materials, equipment or the civil works required for the
project. However, it is unclear that the effects of the particular financing
obtained for the project, mostly short term loans at commercial rates, were
sufficiently considered in the light of the oil-price crisis of 1973-1974.
The effect of this type of borrowing on the foreign exchange resources of the
country, at a time of rapidly increasing oil and other import prices, should
have been more closely assessed.     As it turned out, by 1978 the balance of
payments situation of the country had dramatically deteriorated, reflecting
among other factors the effect of rising debt payments due to short-term
borrowing.
12.       An important element in the timely implementation of the project
(there were practically no time overruns) seems to have been the incorporation
of Kenya Pipeline Company under the Companies Act and not as a Government
Corporation, which allowed the appointment of a strong management able to
operate comparatively free of civil service restrictions.
13.       An interesting side effect of the project was the training of an
all-Kenyan staff to operate and manage the pipeline.      The comparatively low
turnover of Bank staff involved with the project allowed the establishment of
a close working relationship that was instrumental in facilitating the timely
solution of difficult problems.
14.       Finally, while it took little less than two and one-half years to
complete the project and fully disburse 99% of the loan, it will have taken as
much time to disburse the 1% of the loan that remained undisbursed at the
original closing date. In this case, it has been the purchase of a small fire
truck that has delayed closing the loan account.     The worth of keeping open
loans for small miscellaneous items may be seriously questioned.
Lessons to be Learned
15.       Experience from this project suggests that the likely effects of a
project should be researched thoroughly both in a macro-economic and sectoral
context before the project is undertaken.     For instance, it would have been
beneficial to have assessed the wider foreign exchange impact of the project
early in the cycle.   Similarly, greater benefits would be obtained had there
been more definite agreements on pricing of the pipeline's services and not



giving the company full reign to use its monopolistic positionL/.      In this
sense this experieice E.lso suggests that the project's price impact should be
monitored perhaps for a long time after the project's physical completion.
16.       The abser.ce tE a covenant in the loan agreement to ensure construc-
tion of the rail loading facility at Nairobi is a shortcoming that points to
the need to have :important elements related to a project's impact, but not
directly controlled through it, covered by suitable agreements. In this case
the completion of the terminal was an important element of transport coordina-
tion which should have been reflected in a specific covenant.
17.       Finally, the delays in disbursing the one percent of the loan that
remained at the original closing date suggest that serious consideration
should be given, both by the Borrower and the Bank, to cancel small outstand-
ing balances much sooner than is actually the case.
1/   KPC has indicated (see attached Annex) that because its tariffs must be
approved by the Government it does not have "full reign to use its
monopolistic position".   The Audit maintains that Government control of
tariffs charged by a Government owned company does not ensure removal
of monopolistic pricing pressures and practices.      In fact, financial
arrangements agreed with the Bank and stated in the Loan Agreement ensure
that at least some of the monopolistic market position of KPC will
effectively be used.



ANNEX
-6-
12TH ,FLOOR.
NATIONAL BANK BUILDING,
HARAMBEE AVENUE,
f~~~\AAflAK!~~~~~~~~/ ~P.O. BOX 73442,
KENYA rPEUNE COMPANY LIMITED                                 TELEPHONE 335666f7,
TELEX 22112,
NAIROBI, KENYA
OUR REF        F/L/1521                           DATE 14th April 1981
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur,
Director,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street,
N.W., Washington D.C. 20433,
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. Kapur,
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT MOMBASA - NAIROBI PIPELINE
PROJECT (LOAN 1133-KE)
I thank you for your letter dated 16th March 1981 enclosing the Performance
Audit Report (PAR) and the Project Completion Report. While agreeing
in principle with most findings of the PAR, I should like to make the
following comments:
(a)  Princing of KPC Services:
During the appraisal stages of this project, the Kenya Government
made it clear to all concerned that it expected KPC, like other
parastatal bodies, to become financially viable and to generate
revenue for general development purposes. While the KPC tariff
policy is primarily geared towards achieving this, it also aims at
ensuring that both the direct and indirect costs of transporting,
storing and handling white petroleum products between Nairobi
and Mombasa are kept as low as possible. I do not think the above
two objectives can be attained by charging marginal costs as
suggested in the Performance Audit Report.
It should also be noted that KPC tariff include an element of storage
unlike the rail or road tariffs. It is, therefore, incorrect to state
that KPC tariff is now twice the rail rate and 12% more than the
track rate.
Directors: G. Muchiri (Chairman),  (Managing), H Mule, D. Mwiraria, G.W  Gichuki
W.- N. Mbote



- 7 -
(b)  KPC Monopoly on Pipeable Oil Products
It is well known that the purpose of constructing the Nairobi -
Mombasa pipeline was to transport and store pipeable oil
products. Having commissioned the pipeline, it would be
contradictory if pipeable oil was allowed to be transported
by other means.
So far KPC's operations have been efficient and competitive. The
monopoly being enjoyed by KPC cannot be said to have been
sheltering it from pressures to maintain its competitiveness or to
keep its costs low. All possible measures are being taken to
keep KPC as efficient and competitive as possible.
The KPC tariff has got to be approved by the government. The
company has not therefore, been given "full reign to use the
monopolistic position it has in the market" as alleged by the PAR.
(c)  Piperail Project
The Kenya Pipeline Company Ltd. and the Kenya Railways were at
one stage seriously interested in the Piperail Project. However,
after careful appraisal taking into account the project's economic
viability and the future of the pipeline and the railway the project
was considered inappropriate and was dropped. The PAR
recommendation that the issue be re-opened is not therefore
acceptable.
Instead, serious consideration should be given to extending the
pipeline to Western Kenya. If this was feasible, it would make
oil more available in this region and stop the undue damage on
the roads beyond Nairobi.
Yours sincere,
W. N. MBOTE
MANAGING DIRECTOR






KENYA
MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE PROJECT (LOAN 1133-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY
(i)       The project was intended to provide Kenya with a reliable, more
efficient and more economic means of transporting white oil products between
Mombasa and Nairobi to supply the needs of upcountry Kenya as well as Uganda
and Rwanda which have been traditionally supplied from Mombasa. The pipeline
was to replace railway and road transport each of which, at the time of
appraisal, carried approximately one-half of the white oil products moving
upcountry from Mombasa. Since it went into operation the pipeline is carrying
all the white oil products offered.
(ii)       The project was completed on schedule despite a slight delay in the
start of construction, and went into commercial operation in February 1978,
almost on schedule.
(iii)      The training program, which was an integral part of the project,
was completed successfully. As a result, (a) the three top positions in the
Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) were, from the beginning, occupied by competent
Kenya nationals who played a leading role in the timely implementation
of the project, and (b) of KPC's staff of 340, only three are expatriates,
all of whom are in specialized senior technical positions below the three top
managers.
(iv)      The project was completed with a relatively modest cost overrun
(30%) despite the worldwide impact of inflation due to the continuing escala-
tion in petroleum prices, the extent and impact of which could not have been
foreseen at appraisal.
(v)       As a result of the continuing increase in petroleum prices and its
impact worldwide in general and on Kenya in particular, white oil products
consumption has been considerably below expectations (about 70%). Nevertheless,
the revised economic return on the project is estimated at 19%, compared with
the appraisal estimate of 31%.
(vi)      KPC's financial position is very strong despite the adverse develop-
ments affecting project cost and traffic levels, primarily because of the
Government's (a) tariff policy aimed at maintaining KPC's financial viability
and (b) determination to use it as a means of generating revenue for general
development purposes. This is in line with the Government's stated intention
at the time of appraisal (with which the Bank concurred). KPC has already
been able to pay the Government a dividend of K Sh. 20 million for the first
quarter of 1980. The revised financial rate of return on the project is 23%.
(vii)     Except for minor technical violations, KPC has more than adequately
fulfilled the covenants in the Loan Agreement.






-9-
KENYA
MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE PROJECT (Loan 1133-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Petroleum products meet almost one half of Kenya's total annual
energy requirements, with the modern sectors in manufacturing and transport
particularly dependent on them, while the unorganized rural sector relies
principally on firewood, charcoal and bagasse. With no domestic resources,
the country mostly depends on crude oil imports to meet the demand for oil
products. The principal source of product supply is the refinery at Mombasa
owned by the East African Oil Refinery Ltd. (EAOR), a joint venture of the
Government of Kenya and the oil marketing companies. Some products, which the
refinery cannot produce in adequate quantities, are imported, while surplus
fuel oil is exported. The refinery also meets part of the requirements of
Uganda and Rwanda, with the balance of those countries' needs being imported
through Mombasa.
1.02      The main centers of consumption of EAOR petroleum products are
upcountry, with Mombasa and the coastal areas accounting for only about 10% of
the output; 90% of the products have to be transported to Nairobi and beyond.
Of this, about two-thirds comprises the lighter white products and the other
one-third the heavier black products.
1.03      Until about 1967, almost all petroleum products moved upcountry
from Mombasa by railway. Between 1967 and 1969, the Mombasa-Nairobi road
was upgraded to paved standard, and the Government also began issuing
licenses for tanker-trucks to operate on this route. Owing to the growing
inability of the railway to handle all the traffic being offered, by 1973 the
road/rail share of oil product traffic on this route had settled at around
50/50, despite the lower rail tariff (K Sh 90 vs. K Sh 120 per ton by truck
in 1972). As a result, and with growing petroleum traffic, the highway had
been carrying a far larger number of heavy trucks than it was designed for,
resulting in its rapid deterioration. The subsequent problems within the East
African Community (EAC) compounded the railway's capacity and operational
problems, making it difficult to recapture the oil traffic lost to trucks.
1.04      With the steady and steep rise in trucking costs since 1973 due to
the petroleum price increases, the transport of oil products between Mombasa
and Nairobi became a matter of serious concern to the Government of Kenya,
reinforcing a proposal to construct a pipeline for the movement of white oil
products.



- 10 -
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      A feasibility study on the construction of a pipeline between
Mombasa and Nairobi to carry white oil products was completed in 1970 by
consultants. An indication that the Government was planning to approach the
Bank for financing the project was given in January 1972. This was followed
by a formal letter from the Government in February 1972 seeking the Bank's
agreement to the construction of the pipeline, as, under the Guarantee
Agreement, relating to Loan 674-EA to the East African Railways Corporation
(EARC), owned jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda through the East African
Community (EAC):
"Kenya shall not construct, or permit to be constructed,
any oil pipeline which may compete with the oil transport
operation of the (Railway) until a feasibility study for
such oil pipeline shall have been completed, and Kenya and
the Bank shall have been satisfied that such oil pipeline
would be economically justified."
After reviewing the consultants' study and other pertinent information, the
Bank informed the Government in 1973 that it would not object to the construc-
tion of the pipeline.
2.02      Thereafter, on the Bank's suggestion that proposals be invited from
a short list of firms for detailed engineering and further work, the Kenya
Government invited proposals from seven firms in July 1973 and finally selected
one to undertake the work, including updating of the economic and financial
feasibility.
2.03      Due to delays in finalizing and signing the contract, the con-
sultants actually began work only in late 1973. They completed an updated
feasibility study based on revised construction costs for review by the
Government, by the Government-owned Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) (which had
been set up in the meantime), and by the Bank, early in May 1974. Based on
the above report and supplementary notes prepared by the consultants in
response to questions raised during review of the report, appraisal of the
project was undertaken in June 1974.
2.04      The project was expected to comprise a 14-in., 452-km long pipeline
from Mombasa to Nairobi, with a 2-km lateral line to Nairobi airport; 4 pump-
ing stations with staff living quarters; 2 maintenance depots; product
receiving, storage and transfer depots; staff training; telecontrol and
telemetry system and other miscellaneous ancillaries. As completed, the main
pipeline is 449 km long, with a 4-km lateral connection to Nairobi airport.



- 11 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.01      A Bank loan of US$20.0 million was approved by the Board on June 10,
1975, with signature of the legal documents on June 27, 1975. The loan became
effective in December 1975. The delay in effectiveness was mainly caused by
the need to place before the Kenya Parliament, when in session, the Guarantee
Agreement between the Government and the Bank before it could become effective.
This, however, did not delay implementation of the project, which was very
close to the agreed appraisal implementation schedule. The scope of the
project underwent no significant change in the course of implementation.
3.02      Project design and procurement proceeded on schedule, but construc-
tion start-up was delayed by about eight months. The main cause was that pipe
prices were extremely high at the time, and the borrower, on the Bank's
advice, waited until prices began to decline. Subsequently, there were pro-
tracted negotiations with a Japanese trading firm and the Japanese Ministry
of International Trade and Industry, to arrange financing of the civil works
contract (including pipe-laying), pump station and telecontrol equipment.
Construction was, however, completed on schedule in October 1977, and trial
runs started on November 1, 1977. The pipeline went into commercial
operation in February 1978, very nearly on schedule.
3.03      A breakdown of estimated and actual costs is shown in Annex 1.    The
total capitalized cost of the project now carried in KPC-s books is K140.979
million. This compares with K1E29.611 million estimated at the time of
appraisal and constitutes an overrun of about 38%. Excluding expenditures
such as pre-operations expenses not anticipated in the appraisal estimate, the
overrun is about 30% in terms of Kenya shillings and 23% in terms of U.S.
dollars. Part of the overrun can be attributed to the sharp rise in the
exchange rate of the Japanese yen during the project period. There were also
some relatively minor changes in the project, mainly additional aviation fuel
and gasoline storage facilities at Nairobi airport and KPC's Nairobi terminal.
However, the main cause of the overrun was the underestimate of the construc-
tion costs.  The estimate seemed reasonable at the time, but the sharp increase
in labor and material costs triggered by the OPEC oil price increases was not
sufficiently allowed for. An exception to this was line pipe. During 1974
pipe prices had risen to an all-time high because of acute shortages, but by
the time the order was placed, following international competitive bidding,
they had fallen to one-half of what had been projected.
3.04      Disbursements from the Bank loan followed appraisal forecasts quite
closely, as can be seen from the following data:
Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(in US$ 000)
IBRD Fiscal Year          Actual        Appraisal Estimate
1975/76                11,200             7,000
1976/77                14,420            18,000
1977/78                19,742            20,000



- 12 -
However, a small balance of US$258,000 remained unutilized at the time of the
original closing date of February 1, 1979, which has been extended until
December 31, 1980, to allow KPC to complete the procurement of some fire-
fighting and ancillary equipment. These items are expected to be delivered in
the fall of 1980.
Performance of Consultants
3.05      KPC2s consultants for the project have performed their professional
duties in a satisfactory manner. The organization is relatively small and
does not have all the in-house expertise for all facets of design and
engineering for a sophisticated pipeline system such as the Kenya Pipeline,
but it had arranged adequate back-up support from other firms. The arrange-
ments worked well, resulting in a smoothly operating pipeline system manned
by trained local personnel.
Performance of Contractors and Suppliers
3.06      The project was divided into the following four components:
(a) Line Pipe
(b) Storage Tanks
(c) Mainline Pumps
(d) Main construction contract
3.07      Except for the initial delay due to the extremely high price of
steel pipe at the time, and subsequently to protracted negotiations with the
Japanese on financing of the civil works contract, pumping stations and
telecontrol equipment, the project proceeded smoothly to completion. All
civil works, outside of the actual pipeline construction and mechanical,
electrical and instrumentation installations, were sub-contracted to local
contractors. Obtaining spare parts from Japanese suppliers has been time-
consuming because of the financial arrangements to be completed before shipments
are made. Some Japanese suppliers have also been remiss in providing adequate
equipment manuals and drawings.
3.08      Equipment performance has been very good.    One of the main pumps
underwent the 5,000-hour inspection in late 1979 and showed no signs of
wear-and-tear. There are some sealing defects with the floating roof tanks,
which are being rectified. The two turbine meter provers, at Mombasa and
Nairobi, have to be replaced because the inner epoxy has come loose; a new
prover is being installed in Mombasa and the one removed in the process will
be reconditioned and installed in Nairobi.



- 13 -
Performance of Borrower
3.09      KPCGs top management has been outstanding from the beginning of
project implementation to its commercial operation. They deserve a great deal
of credit for the successful completion of the project. Most important, in
our view, is that this enterprise is operating essentially with local manage-
ment and a staff completely new to the complexities of sophisticated pipeline
operations. The Government of Kenya is quite legitimately very proud of KPC's
achievements.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.01      The operating capacity of the pipeline is as follows:
Pump Stations              Opera5ing Range
Operating                   (m /hr.)
1 and 3                      180-230
1, 5 and 7                   260-290
1, 3, 5 and 7                350-400
4.02      The pipeline design capacity was specified to be 1.5 to 3.0 million
metric tons of petroleum Rroducts per year, which corresponds to the operating
ranges given above (one m is equal to approximately 0.8 ton of products based
on their average densities). To date pipeline traffic has been substantially
below original forecasts, mostly because of the situation in Uganda and the
slackening of demand caused by the sharp increase in oil prices. Throughput
has been as follows:
Monthly
Actuals                               Total                 Average
(m3)                   (m3)
1978 (February to December)          955,017                 86,820
1979                               1,370,959                114,247
Appraisal Forecasts
1978                               1,870,000               155,700
1979                               1,970,000               164,200
Forecasts up to 1997, shown in Annex 2, reflect the changed situation arising
from recent oil price increases and assume a slow and modest recovery of the
economy.



- 14 -
4.03      Pipeline operations have been complicated by the small product batch
sizes and the irregular deliveries from the refinery. According to the
Superintendent of EAOR, since the Iranian crisis, the refinery has not been
receiving the type of crude oil best suited for its operations, and tankers
arrive at very erratic intervals. As a result, refinery runs have to be
frequently altered to cope with the changing crude oil supplies, in both
quantity and quality. These abnormal operating conditions, which could not
have been foreseen, prevent the refinery from supplying a well planned regular
flow of products to the pipeline. However, despite this supply problem, KPC's
deliveries to the shippers have not been seriously affected.
4.04      The theoretical inierface volume for the pipeline between two
batch5s of products is 142 m . During commissioning, interfaces in excess of
400 m were experienced and it was necessary to return a substantial portion
of the interface slops to ths refinery. However, KPC has been able to reduce
the interface to about 190 m by eliminating unscheduled starts and stops and
by maintaining back pressure at Nairobi airport and the Nairobi terminal. The
interface slop now generated is easily absorbed by injecting it within per-
missible contamination limits into the appropriate batch being delivered.
Larger batches and higher throughput would further reduce the amount of
interface slops.
4.05      Discussions with the shippers have been going on for some time
regarding product losses in excess of the originally agreed system loss
liability by KPC of 0.2%. Losses have been averaging 0.3% - 0.4% which may
be only an apparent loss because the tolerance allowed for tank volume
calibration is 0.25%. A committee consisting of the parties involved and a
products measurement specialist is reviewing this problem. The turbine
metering system is not likely to be fully operative and accepted for measur-
ing product transfers for sometime since several months of operation will be
required for proper calibration after the defective provers are replaced.
4.06      Pipeline operation is presently remote-controlled from the Nairobi
Control Center which manually sets the appropriate control points. Attempts
to operate the pipeline in an automatic remote mode have, so far, been unsuc-
cessful.   Attempts to commission automatic remote operation have been deferred
because of the supply and small batch problem and other matters. Only some
modifications will have to be made in the timing of pump start-up sequencing
and flow control at Nairobi airport and the Nairobi terminal to facilitate
this.
4.07      An inspection of the pipeline and its ancillary facilities showed
excellent housekeeping and care of equipment. Fire-fighting, accident and
other emergency instructions are prominently displayed in the appropriate
operating areas. There is adequate security against unauthorized entry and
no-smoking rules are strictly enforced. The pipeline right-of-way is well
maintained, but several river crossings require careful, periodic maintenance
due to the possibility of erosion during heavy rains.



- 15 -
Users Reactions
4.08       In March 1980, Bank staff held meetings in Nairobi with managers and
other senior officials of the six oil marketing companies who are the users of
the pipeline. All of them, some implicitly and some in so many words, stated
that the pipeline was doing a much better job than the other modes could.
They also felt it was a more efficient mode, with lower in-transit losses,
with potential for reducing such losses even further. They, however, pointed
to three features of KPCGs tariff which, they felt, were not justified:
(i)  the high level of the tariff,
(ii) frequent revision of the tariff, often, in their view,
without adequate justification, and
(iii) Government's ruling that KPC tariff revisions would
not automatically be reflected in the retail prices
of oil products.
KPC's response to the above complaints is as follows:
(a)  the level of the tariff is determined by the escalation
in project costs, the real cost of alternative modes,
the need to ensure KPC's financial viability, and the
need to contribute to the Government's general develop-
ment outlays in the form of dividends;
(b)  revisions are made as needed to meet the above objectives;
and
(c)  KPC has no control over Government policy on retail prices.
4.09       Some oil companies also complained that the limited rail loading
facilities at KPC's Nairobi terminal were seriously hampering their upcountry
distribution activities. Without such facilities they would have to increase
their own storage capacity at Nairobi, but this would be rendered unnecessary
should the pipeline be extended further towards the Uganda border, in which
event they would build the additional storage needed at the new terminal point.
(The Government has since authorized KPC to commission a detailed feasibility
study of extending the pipeline.)
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Operating Results
5.01      The actual financial results for the first two years of operations
differ from appraisal estimates for the following reasons:
(a) for 1978 the actual throughput was only approximately 50%
of appraisal estimates;



- 16 -
(b)  operating costs were substantially higher than forecast;
(c)  the actual tariff was K Sh 138 per   3 compared with the
appraisal estimate of K Sh 90 per m ;
(d)  interest expense during the initial years exceeded the
estimates; and
(e)  the appraisal assumed that corporate income tax would be
payable from the outset whereas payment of taxes has
been deferred due to the write-off of certain pre-
operational expenses for tax purposes.
5.02      The combined result of the foregoing has been that KPC recorded a
net loss during 1978 of KE2.9 million rather than the appraisal forecast of a
profit of KE2.3 million. During 1979, however, a profit of KE2.9 million was
realized, compared with the appraisal forecast of KL2.2 million. Details are
given in Annex 3.
5.03      The actual balance sheet position of KPC, as compared to the
appraisal, differs primarily for the following reasons:
(a)  the project costs were higher than anticipated;
(b)  the long-term debt is correspondingly higher; and
(c)  the Government subscribed to KPC's share capital
KE7.7 million, KE3.7 million above the KE4.0 million
agreed during negotiations.
5.04      Due to the cost increase and the higher than expected debt service
KPC rescheduled one of the supplier credits to avoid a cash shortfall in
mid-1978. Details of the balance sheet position are given in Annex 4, and the
cash flow in Annex 5.
Financial Re-evaluation
5.05      In order to re-evaluate the financial prospects of KPC, the follow-
ing assumptions have been made:
(a)  throughput as shown in Annex 2;
(b)  revised tariff schedule of K Sh 208 at KPC's Nairobi terminal
and K Sh 283 at the Nairobi airport;
(c)  constant maintenance costs;
(d)  corporate income tax of 45% payable in the year following; and
(e)  payment of a dividend of K Sh 80 million each year.



- 17 -
5.06       Based on the foregoing KPC will show profits each year through 1985
substantially higher than the appraisal forecast due entirely to the higher
tariff. Projected comparative operating statements are shown in Annex 6.
5.07       Including the payment of dividends and corporate tax, KPC should show
positive annual cash flows for all years, except 1980 and 1981, which will be
covered by the existing cash reserve. The cash flow statement is set out in
Annex 5 and projected balance sheets are given in Annex 7.
Financial Internal Rate of Return
5.08       The internal financial rate of return for the project as appraised
was 17%.  The project as re-evaluated shows a rate of return of 23%.     Although
the actual costs to date are substantially higher than estimated, the addi-
tional pumping stations will not be required in 1990 due to the lower revised
throughput forecast. Thus the total capital costs for the projection period to
1997 are approximately the same. The revenues, however, are greatly increased
due to the higher level of tariff. Details are given in Annex 8.
Financial Convenants
5.09      KPC maintained proper books of account and prepared management
reports, including projected cash flow statements, throughout the project
period. Annual accounts were prepared on a timely basis and reviewed with
Bank staff prior to audit. The final audited annual reports were, in some
instances, issued beyond the six-month period stipulated in Section 5.02 of the
Loan Agreement, but this delay should be regarded as only a technical violation.
5.10      Due to the low throughput during 1978 (para. 5.01), revenues, and
hence profits and working capital, were low.    As a result, covenants relating
to these items were not kept.   The return on net fixed assets was 2.1% in 1978
and the internally generated cash barely covered interest expense. However,
the issued share capital was increased by KfE2.8 million (US$10.0 million) in
1978 to assist KPC overcome the cash flow problem.
5.11       Section 5.03 of the Loan Agreement states that the rate of return on
net fixed assets in use should be not less than 15% through 1982 and 20%
thereafter. With the exception of 1978 (already noted in para. 5.10), KPC
should exceed these requirements.
5.12      A dividend of K Sh 80 million was declared during 1980, with a
payment of K Sh 20 million for the first quarter. Section 5.06(i) of the Loan
Agreement states that a dividend may be declared if the net cash generated for
the preceding year is 1.5 times the maximum debt-service service requirement
for any succeeding year. KPC has conformed with this covenant. Section
5.06(ii) further requires that the current assets, after payment of the
dividend, must be 1.5 times the current liabilities. Projections for 1980
indicate that this may not be the case. Based on the projections in Annex 4,
it appears that the dividend was two years premature with respect to this
covenant.



- 18 -
5.13      In retrospect, the financial covenants were reasonable, although
the Bank was probably unrealistic in regard to the rate of return covenant for
the first year of operations. A grace period of one year, to allow for
problems during the commissioning period, would have been desirable.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
6.01      In September 1973 the Government of Kenya set up the Kenya Pipeline
Company (KPC), registered under the Companies Act and fully owned by the
Government, to own and operate the pipeline when it was completed. Soon
thereafter the Government filled the positions of chairman and the top three
managers of KPC - the Managing Director, and the Technical and Financial
Managers -- with competent Kenyans, who also took the lead role in the imple-
mentation of the project. These officials took a leading part in arranging
the cofinancing and in the subsequent loan negotiations with the Bank. They
were also behind the drive to complete the project on time, dealing with
problems, both in project execution and in subsequent operations, promptly and
efficiently. They deserve a great deal of credit for the successful implemen-
tation of the project.
6.02      As a result, KPC is now a well established and efficiently run
enterprise capable of providing technical assistance, especially in project
planning and implementation, and in training, to other countries in the region
which may be contemplating oil pipeline projects. KPC currently has about 340
employees, all of whom are Kenyan nationals except for three expatriates - two
engineers from India and one operations expert from the U.K. From December
1979, KPC has successfully taken over the operation of the Nairobi airport
hydrant fueling system from the operator who was acting as its agent since the
inauguration of the pipeline.
6.03      The three top managers of KPC underwent an initial program of
training in the UK organized by the consultant. Appointees for the remaining
supervisory posts and for skilled jobs underwent training in Kenya and abroad,
under a program developed by the consultants and utilizing facilities in
the UK, India and of technical institutions in Kenya. Semi-skilled and
unskilled staff were recruited as required. Their training included formal
lectures both locally and overseas; training at equipment manufacturers
factories; training/familiarization on other similar pipeline systems; and
on-the-job training during construction of the project. These training
schemes were integral parts of the project.
6.04      Staff turnover through resignations and terminations has averaged
about 10% a year, confined mostly to the lower levels. Resignations have been
mainly to continue education or to pursue better prospects elsewhere. Recruit-
ment of qualified staff has generally not been a problem. For both existing
and new staff, KPC has a continuing training program ranging from on-the-job
training to local and overseas courses.



- 19 -
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
7.01      The principal economic benefits of the project were expected to be
the following:
(i)  railway investments avoided (locomotives, tank cars, addi-
tional storage tanks) and postponed (installation of central-
ized traffic control, doubling the track,
lengthening of passing loops; strengthening of wagon couplings);
(ii)  postponement of reconstruction of the Mombasa-Nairobi
highway and eliminating the additional maintenance
expenditure necessitated by the large volume of heavy
tanker-truck traffic; and
(iii) very low operating costs for the pipeline compared with
the railway and with road transport.
These were expected to yield an economic return of 31%.
7.02      In the event, the volume of railway traffic has fallen short of
the levels visualized in 1974 and some of the railway investments designed
to increase line capacity on the Mombasa-Nairobi section will not be needed
for another 10-15 years. Also, the volume of pipeline traffic has been below
expectations, reducing the additional locomotives and rolling stock the rail-
way would have needed to carry the white oil traffic. Future traffic volumes
are also expected to be considerably below the appraisal forecasts (Annex 2),
with an annual projected growth of only 3% (vs. 5%).
7.03      However, owing to the worldwide escalation in prices, especially
oil prices, since late 1973, which has been far more severe than was antici-
pated at appraisal, rail and road operating costs were much higher in 1978,
the year the pipeline went into operation, than in 1974. Simultaneously
the cost of railway rolling stock has also risen.
7.04      An important benefit not taken into consideration at the time of
appraisal is the reduction in losses in transit. The pipeline has brought
these losses down to 0.30% from about 0.50% and will soon reduce them to about
0.15%.
7.05      As a result, despite the 30% escalation in project costs, the
economic return on the project as a whole is expected to be a very satis-
factory 19%.
VIII. ROLE OF THE BANK
8.01      Once the Bank signified its agreement in principle to a project
for the construction of an oil products pipeline between Mombasa and Nairobi,
the Bank's role was constructive and of considerable assistance to KPC in



- 20 -
mobilizing the required co-financing and in dealing with contract problems
that arose during project execution. But it took the Bank about a year to
come to the conclusion that a pipeline project would be justified, owing to
its rather excessive concern over the pipeline's impact on the East African
Railways' finances. Ultimately the Bank's decision was correctly based
solely on whether or not the project had economic merit of its own.
8.02      The Bank's helpful role could best be illustrated by the flexible
position it took on what part of the project it would finance. In the early
stages after appraisal, it was felt that line pipe could easily be obtained
through bilateral financing, and the Bank agreed to finance the civil works
contract. As soon as it was found that bilateral financing could involve a
line pipe cost of US$800 or more per ton, the Bank readily agreed to finance
pipe, procured on the basis of international competitive bidding, thus cutting
the cost by almost one half, a favorable development that was also facilitated
by a slight delay in procurement, on the Bank's advice. As a result, though
the civil works contract probably cost somewhat more than it might have
otherwise, there was a substantial saving to KPC.
8.03      The Bank also played a constructive and helpful role by agreeing
to the Borrower's request for review of all contract evaluation reports
and approval of all contract awards for the project, including those financed
by other agencies. This helped to keep non-technical considerations out of
bid evaluation and thus paved the way for efficient and timely implementation
of the project. The Bank also assisted KPC in introducing an element of
competitive bidding for contracts financed under bilateral sources by helping
to line up the possibility of more than one source of financing for most
contracts.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01      Although future volumes of pipeline traffic are highly dependent on
world crude oil prices, this project must be considered a remarkable success
for several reasons. First, it is one of the few Bank-financed projects in
Kenya, and in fact anywhere, that was carried out according to the original
implementation schedule. Second, despite the worldwide escalation in costs
since the October 1973 initial increase in petroleum prices, the pipeline
construction was completed with only a modest cost overrun. Third, its
operations with an entirely Kenyan staff, without prior experience in this
sophisticated field, have so far been smooth and have won the approval
of the international oil companies operating in Kenya. Fourth, even in its
third year of operation, it has declared a substantial dividend to its sole
shareholder, the Government of Kenya, testifying to its financial soundness
and competent management.
9.02      The only disappointing feature of the operation of the pipeline is
that traffic has fallen considerably short of appraisal forecasts and every-
thing indicates that the shortfall will widen in the future. This, of course,
is beyond the control of the oil companies operating in Kenya, KPC and even



- 21 -
the Government of Kenya. Although the appraisal forecasts were considerably
lower than those in the consultant's feasibility study, actual traffic in 1997
is now expected to be only one half of the appraisal estimate. According to
the appraisal report, the pipeline was expected to be close to its maximum
capacity by 1997, whereas with the rate of traffic growth now expected, it can
meet Kenya s white oil product transport needs in the Mombasa-Nairobi corridor
for a further 20 years.
9.03      Before deciding on the pipeline size at 14", the consultants made a
summary evaluation of sizes ranging from 10. to 20" and a detailed evaluation
of 14" and 16" based on their traffic forecasts. Their conclusion was accepted
by the appraisal mission for somewhat lower traffic forecasts, since the extra
cost of 14" pipe over 12" pipe was estimated to be relatively small (under
US$1.0 million) and worth the extra built-in capacity and flexibility of a 14"
pipeline vis-a-vis a 12" pipeline. It is possible the mission would have
taken a different view had the extent and worldwide impact of higher petroleum
prices on oil products consumption been foreseen correctly at that time.
9.04      As anticipated in the appraisal report, the pipeline has had a
positive effect on the ecology of Kenya, as it is a buried pipeline, and has
replaced pollution-causing surface transport. This has been of particular
importance to the Tsavo Game Park.



- 22 -                                ANNE! 1
EUYA
MOMBASA-w'AMFOBI OIL PEODUCTS PIPELINE PP.OJECT (LO&N 1133-RE)
PROJECT CO,MEE7ION PREPORT
Actual and Appraisal Estiante of Project Cost
(E '000)
Appraisal Estimate_                Actual Cost
Local     roreign             Local
Currency  Ex.change Total     Curre.cy   Exchange  Total
1. laterials
PipelIne                        2,091    6,836    8,927          40    4,742     4,762
Naircbi Terminal                  288      982    1,270         385     1,801    2,186
Pump Stations                     627    1,197    1,824          34     2,463    2,537
Teleconnunications                  -       76       76           -     2,960    2,960
Vel.icles and Equipment            38       94      132           -       347      347
Sub-total                         3,044    9,185   12,229         479   12,333    12,812
2.  Civil Works
Pipeline                          906    3,674    4,580         .547  11,033    11.550
Nairobi Terminal                  555      344      899         379     3,721    4,100
Pump Stations                     325      792    1,117         665    1,809     2,z A
Sub-total                         1,786    4,810    6,596       1,591    16,563   18,154
3. Training                             336      159      495           -         -        -
4.  Consultancv Services                325      804    1,129                           -
Subtotal:  Training and                                               b/
Consultants            661      963    1,624                2,961     22961
S. Basic Project Cost                 5,491   14,958   20,449       2,070    31,857   33,927
6. Contincencies
Physical                          312      736    1,048           -        _
Price                           1,390    4,214    5,604           -        -
7. Total Project Cost                 7,193   19,908   27,101       2,070   31,857    33,927
Pre-Operation expenses              -        -        -       1,799        -     1,799
Interest during construction      550    1,960    2,510         392    1,872     2,264
Finance charges                     -        -        -         378       50       428
Insurance                           -        -        -         138        -      125
Duty and Sales taxat                -        -        -       2,423        -     2.423
Total Project Expenditures            7,143   21,S^8   29,fJ11      A10      33,729    40,979
a/ gL2.517 million is ircluded for local taxes in the appraisa3 cGstiate of total project cosM
b   Irncluded in "prec?erazicn e>:per.ses".
June 1980



ANNEX 2
- 23 -
REMYA
MOM3ASA-NAIROBI OIl PRODUCTS PI?ELINE PROJECT (LOAI 1133-KE)
PROJECT COMPTLETION REPORT
Pipeline Traffic Forecasts
('000 mI)
Year                     Appraisal               Revised
1980                       2100                  1450
1981                       2240                  1500
1982                       2390                  1560
1983                       2540                  1620
1984                       2710                  1680
1985                       2900                  1740
1986                       3090                  1800
1987                       3260                  1870
1988                       3450                  1940
1989                       3650                  2020
1990                       3860                  2090
1991                       4070                  2170
1992                       4280                  2250
1993                       4490                  2340
1994                       4720                  2420
1995                       4960                  2510
1996                       5210                  2610
1997                       5460                  2710
June 1980



- 24 -
ANNEX 3
KENYA
MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE PROJECT (LOAN 1133-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Kenya Pipeline Company
Operating Statements
(K6 '000)
Year Ended December 31                    1978                 1979
Appraisal               Appraisal
Actual    Forecast     Actual     Forecast
Oil Transport Revenue            6,167      7,916      11,248       8,496
Operating Expenses               2,214        852       2,026         889
Operating Surplus             3,953     7,064       9,222       7,607
Provisions:
Depreciation                  2,025      1,008      1,968       1,007
Amortization                  1,177        743      1,128         743
3,202      1,751       3,096       1,750
Operating Income                751      5,313      6,126       5,857
Finance Costs-net                 3,688     2,365       3,209       2,488
Net Income Before Tax        (2,937)     2,948      2,917       3,369
Provision fLr Tax on Income        -          625         -         1,122
Net Income                  (2,937)     2,323      2,917       2,247
Rate of Return on Net
Fixed Assets in use (Z)            2.1      18.1        17.0        19.0
June 1980



KENYA
MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE PROJECT (LOAN 1133-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION 'REPORT
Kenya Pipeline Company
Comparative Balance Sheets
(KL '000)
Year Ended December 31                           1977                      1978                      1979
Actual      Appraisal     Actual      Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal
Assets
Current Assets:
Cash                                    256           365       4,936         2,417        2,566        4,773
Other                                    81           -         3,260           660        1.966          708
337           365       8,196         3 077       4.532         5.481
Fixed Assets - at Cost                 34,292        26,447      38,957        26,447       39,179       26,447
Accumulated Depreciation                 42           -2.067                  1,008        4,035        2,015
34,250        26,447      36,890        25.439       35,144       24,432
Preliminary Expenses                    4,491         4.941       3,440         4,400        2,255        3,659
Total Assets                    39,078       31753        48526         32916       41,93133.570
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities:                      6                       4,615
Creditors and accruals                  601          -           ,17                       2,459           1
income tax payable                                   -            -             625                      1 122
Long-term debt current                              1,802       4,215 A       2.091        4,575         2,412
601         1.802       8.830         273           034          3552
Long-Term Debt                                                   34,915        23,860                     21,448
Equity:
Share capital                         4,900        4,000        7,718         4,000       7,718          4.000
Retained earnings                       -             -        (2,937         2,323           2          4,570
4,900         4,000       4.781         6,323        7,698          8,570
Total Liabilities and Equity           39,078        31,753      48,526        32,916      41,931         33,570
June 1980



KENYA
MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE PROJECT (LOAN 1133-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Kenya'Pipeline Company
Cash Flow
(K6 T 000)
Actual                                  ProJected
Year Ended December 31                 1978       1979       1980       1981      -1982       1983       1984       1985
Source of Funds:
1.  Operating surplus              3,953      9,222    14,213     14,804      15,417     16,053     16,711      17,395
2.  Increase in capital            2,818        -        -          -          -           _          _            _
3.  Increase in long-term debt     1,338        -          94       -          -           -          -            -
4. Decrease in non-cash
working capital               5,050        -        -          -          -           - 
Total Sources of Funds        13,159       9,222              141,804     15,417     16,053     16,711      17,395
Use of Funds:
1.  Increase in fixed assets       4,665        165        94       -          -           -          -           -
2.  Pre-operational expenses         126        -        -          -          -           -                      -
3.  Debt service - principal        -         7,716     5,604      3,848       3,434      2,790      2,737       1,767
- interest       3,688       3,209     2,499      2,203      2,131      1,465       1,178         961
4.  Dividends                        -          -       4,000      4,000      4,000       4,000      4,000       4,000
5.  Income Tax                       -          -         -        3,336      4,785       5,093      5,679       6,104
6.  Increase in non-cash
working capital                            502     2,562      1,846        507         741        152       1,074
Total Uses of Funds             8,479     11,592    14,759     15,233      14,857     14,089     13,746      13,906
Annual Cash Surplus (Deficit)         4,680    ( 2,370)   (  452)    (   429)       560      1,964      2,965       3,489
Opening Cash Balance                    256      4,936     2,566      2,114       1,685      2,245      4,209       7,174
Closing Cash Balance                  4,936      2,566     2,114      1,685      2,245       4,209      7,174
June 1980



KENlYA
NOFBAs&-M&1R03 OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE PROJECT (LOAN 1133-gE)
PRDJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Kenya Pipeline Company
Projected Operating Statements
(Kh '000)
1980                  1981                   1982                  1983                 1984                          1985
Year Ended December 31       Projected   Appraisal Projected Appraisal    Projected  Appraisal   Projected  Appraisal   Projected  Appi sal      Projected    Appraisal
Throughput M3 ('000)           1.447       2,100      1_500       2.238     1,556      2,388        1,614     2538673               2,713          1 735        2.900
Oil Transport Revenue         16,356       8,987     16,961       9,567    17,589     10,184       18,240    10,796      18,914    11,466         19,614       12,254 ,
Operating Expenses             2,143         932      2,157        977      2,172      1.025        2,187     1,079        2,203    1,144          2,219        1,211
Operating Surplus         14,213       8,055     14,804      8,590     1599417     9.159       663977                          10,322         17,395       11,043
Provisions:
Depreciation               1,968       1,006      1,968      1,014      1,968      1,016       1,968      1,016       1,968     1,015          1,968        1,016
Amortization               1,128         742      1,127        741        -          135.         -         135         -         136             -           136
3,096      1,748       3,095      1,755     1,968       1,151       1,958      1,151       1,968    1.1ai           _1968         _152.
Operating Income          11,117       6.307     11,709      6,835     13,449      8,008      14,085      8,566      14,743     9,171         15,427        9,891
Financed Costs                 2                      2,203      2,038      2,131      1,777       1,465      1,488       1,178     1,173             961         827
Net Income Before Tax      8,618       4,031      9,506      4,797     11,318      6,231      12,620      7,078      13,565     7,998          14,466       9,064
Provision for Tax on Income        3       16296      4,785      1,762      5,093      2,482        5,679     2,9G9        6j_104     3,475         6,_5 10         5
Nct Income                5,282  2,735           4,721      3,035     641                                4,109       7,461    4,523            ,956       *,029
Rate of Return on Net
Fixed Assets in Use (X)      22.7        21.0       21.4       22.0       27.6       24.9        27.7       26.3        32.7      28.1           36.5         30.4
June 1980



- 28 -
ANNEX 7
KENYA
MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE PROJECT (LOAN 1133-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Kenya Pipeline Company
Projected Balance Sheets
(Xi, '000)
Year Ended December 31                     1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
Assets
Current Assets:
Cash                                  2,114      1,685     2.245     4,209     7,174    10,663
Other                                 3,277      3,36      3,462     3,56o     3,661     3,766
5,391     5,053     5,707     7,769     10,835    14,429
Fixed Assets - At Cost                  39,273     39,273    39,273    39,273    39,273    39,273
Accumulated Depreciation               6,003      ,7       9939     11,907    13,875    15,843
33270     31,302    29,334    27,366     25,398 -   3,430
Preliminary  Expenses                                -                   -
Total~~~~~~~~3               Asset 36,355    35,041     35,135    36,2337 37,859
Total Assets                                __j5 .L                                 3785
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities:
Creditors and accruals                   179        180       181       182       184       185
Income tax payable                     3,336      4,785     5,093     5,679     6,104     6,510
Long-term debt - current                5,0       3,4       3,434     2,790     2,737     1, 767
9,119     8.813     8,708     8,651      9,025     8,462
Long-Term Debt                           21,       17,4      14407     11,617     8,880     7,1
Equity
Share capital                          7,718      7,718     7,718     7,718     7,718     7,718
Retained earnings                       1,262     1,983     4,        7,149    10,610    14,566
_8,98      9,701    11,926    14,867     18,328    22,284
Total Liabilities .and Equity     39,788     __,355    35,041    35,135    36,       37,859
June 1980



- 29 -                            ANNEX 8
KENYA
MOMBASA-NAIROBI OIL PRODUCTS PIPELINE PROJECT (LOAN 1133-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Financial Internal Rate of Return
(KS( '000)
Appraisal                          Re-Evaluation
Capital     Cash      Net Cash        Capital     Cash       Net Cash
Costs     Inflow       Flow           Costs     Inflow1        Flow
1974        324        -         ( 324)           444        -          (   444)
1975     17,281        -         17,821         1,245        -          ( 1,245)
1976     13,933         -       (13,933)       16,530        -          (16,530)
1977        215        -        (   215)       16,073        -          (16,073)
1978                 6,421        6,421         4,665      3,953        C   712)
1979                 6,935        6,935           165      9,222          9,057
1980                 6,894        6,894            94     14,213         14,119
1981                 7,248        7,248                   11,468         11,468
1982                 7,347        7,347                   10,632         10,632
1983                  7,186       7,186                   10,960         10,960
1984                 7,301        7,301                   11,032         11,032
1985                 7,505        7,505                   11,291         11,291
1986                  7,593       7,593                   11,68&6/       11,686
1987                  7,840       7,840                   12,095         12,095
1988                 8,108        8,108                   12,518         12,518
1989                 8,447        8,447                   12,957         12,957
1990.9j  6,602       8,855        2,253                   13,410         13,410
1991                 9,556        9,556                   13,879         13,879
1992                 9,948        9,948                   14,365         14,365
1993                10,221       10,221                   14,868         14,868
1994                10,610       10,610                   15,388         15,388
1995                11,013       11,013                   15,927         15,927
1996                11,335       11,335                   16,485         16,485
1997                12,018       12.018                   17,061         17,061
38,355                 172,381     134,026       253,410        214,914
Financial Internal Rate of Return    .17%                                  23%
1/  From.Table 5 - Operating Surplus Minus Tax Payment.
2/ Cash Inflow 1986-1997 Increased at 3 1/2% per. annum, the approximate annual increase
in throughput.
31 Represents the cost of additional pumping stations. These will not be required
in the re-evaluation due to lower level of throughput.
June 1980



