die  L CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1133 KE
Loan Agreement
(Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Products Pipeline Project)
BETWEEN
0
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
KENYA PIPELINE COMPANY LIMITED
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1133 KE
Loan Agreement
(Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Products Pipeline Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
KENYA PIPELINE COMPANY LIMITED
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and KENYA PIPELINE CGMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has received assurances that credit financing will be made
available to the Borrower by suppliers and contractors or export credit institutions
to pay for goods and services for the Project, other than line-pipe a:.d related
materials, estimated to cost the equivalent of thirty-five million dollars
($35,000,000);
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b)   On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment dates specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay,
on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on
or before the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the contracts for
the purchase of line-pipe and related materials for the Project, to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be February 1, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
July I and January 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, financial and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   For the purpose set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 3.01, the
Borrower shall, inter alia, (i) increase its share capital to not less than eighty million
Kenya Shillings in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of the
Guarantee Agreement, and (ii) borrow an amount of not less than one hundred
and twenty million Kenya Shillings in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.02 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to provide the required
engineering, management, accounting and training services for the carrying out of
the Project and the initial operating stages of the pipeline to be constructed under
the Project. Such services shall include pipeline route selection and survey,
preparation of detailed designs and specifications, issue of tenders to qualified
contractors, recommending contract awards (which shall be submitted by the
Borrower to the Bank for review), inspecting equipment at suppliers' plants,
inspection and supervision of construction, supervision of commissioning of
facilities, assisting the Borrower in staff recruitment and training, company
organization and setting up financial controls and accounting systems.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request


﻿6
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included
in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall operate its business and conduct its affairs
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management and in accordance
with appropriate business, pipeline and financial practices and shall operate,
maintain, renew and repair its pipeline, plant, machinery, equipment and property
as required in accordance with appropriate engineering practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its corporate existence
and right to carry on operations and shall, except as the Guarantor and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges,
licenses and franchises owned or held by it and necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out, prior to the commencement of
its pipeline operations, and thereafter maintain, with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not:
(a)   sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or
assets which shall be required for the efficient carrying on of its business; or
(b)   amend its Memorandum or Articles of Association; or


﻿7
(c)   initially operate the hydrant fueling system to be built at the new
Nairobi airport at Embakasi; or
(d)   enter into any other venture, undertaking or business which is not
a necessary part of its pipeline operations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if any) to
observe and perform the obligations of the Borrower under this Loan Agreement
to the extent to which the same may be applicable thereto as though such
obligations were binding upon each of such subsidiaries.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1977 (or such other date
as may be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower) make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)   for the lease by the Borrower of the necessary radio channels from
the   Mombasa-Nairobi    microwave    link  with   East   African   Posts  and
Telecommunications Corporation (EAPT). The Borrower shall provide reasonable
ratio or cable links between the EAPT towers and the pump stations to be
constructed under Part B of the Project;
(b)   for the turnkey operation by a specialist organization of the hydrant
fueling system to be built at the new Nairobi airport at Embakasi;
(c)   with East African Oil Refinery Limited, covering products receipts,
custody transfer, quality, accountability, volumes to be transported, monthly and
daily transport forecasts and other operational matters;
(d)   with East African    Railways Corporation and the oil companies
concerned, covering transport and delivery of products at Nairobi, custody transfer,
product quality, loss and accountability and other operational matters; and
(e)   with the oil companies operating in Kenya for the financing of the
line fill.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.


﻿8
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall establish and maintain tariffs which will provide
revenues sufficient concurrently to:
(i)         produce an annual return on the value of the Borrower's net
fixed assets in operation of not less than fifteen (15%) per cent
per annum until 1982, and thereafter twenty (20%) per cent
per annum; and
(ii)        enable it out of internally generated funds to pay interest on
and amortize loans and debts, pay current taxation and dividents
and provide adequate reserves, maintain adequate working
capital, and finance a reasonable part of the cost of new capital
investments.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The   "annual return"    shall be calculated by    relating the
Borrower's net operating revenues for the Borrower's fiscal year
under consideration to the average of the values of the
Borrower's net fixed assets in operation at the beginning and
at the end of such year.
(ii)         "Net operating revenues" shall be calculated by deducting the
Borrower's operating expenses for the fiscal year under
consideration from the Borrower's gross operating revenues for
the fiscal year under consideration.
(iii)       The   term   "operating  expenses"   means all operating and
administrative expenses, including contributions to employee


﻿9
funds, income taxes, adequate maintenance, depreciation,
amortization of preliminary expenses, and development
surcharge or other levies, if any, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
(iv)        The term   "value of net fixed assets in operation" means the
original cost of all fixed assets in operation, adjusted from time
to time to reflect the current replacement value of such assets,
less accumulated depreciation thereon.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower as security for
any debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt, other
than debt required to finance the carrying out of the Project, if the net cash
generation of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries from operations for the fiscal
year immediately preceding such incurrence will be less than 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The term   "debt" means all debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii)        Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of a contract or loan agreement or other instrument
providing for the incurring of such debt;


﻿10
(iii)       The term   "net cash generation from   operations   means gross
revenues from all sources, adjusted to take account of the tariffs
of the Borrower and its subsidiaries in effect at the time of
the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the fiscal year, less all operating, administrative and
overhead expenses, including adequate maintenance and taxes,
but before deduction for depreciation, write-offs and debt service
requirements;
(iv)        The term    "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization of, and interest and other charges on,
debt; and
(v)         Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in terms of Kenya currency debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Bank.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall declare dividends (i) oily if, at such time, the net cash generation
of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries from operations for the fiscal year
immediately preceding such declaration will noi be less than 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries, and (ii) only if, after the payment of such dividend (assuming
such payment was made on the date of such declaration), the consolidated current
assets of the Borrower and its subsidiaries would be at least 1.5 times the
consolidated current liabilities of the Borrower and its subsidiaries.
(b)   For purposes of this Section the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
(i)         The terms defined in Section 5.05(b) of this Agreement shall
have the respective meanings set forth therein;
(ii)        The term    "current assets" shall mean cash, bank deposits,
receivables and readily marketable securities valued at their
market price but shall not include inventories; and


﻿11
(iii)       The term "current liabilities" shall mean all liabilities due and
payable and all other liabilities which would be payable or could
be called for payment within one year including the dividend
declared and the current portion of long-term indebtedness.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
(i)         Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to receive all or any part of
the credit financing referred to in paragraph (B) of the
Preamble to this Agreement shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)   any such credit financing shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)        Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
The event specified in paragraph (i)(B) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date September 25, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Kenya Pipeline Company Limited
P.O. Box 73442
Nairobi
Cable address:
KENYA PIPELINE COMPANY
BIMA HOUSE
NAIROBI, KENYA
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
KENYA PIPELINE COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ Bernard Adundo
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Line Pipe                      17,000,000         100% of foreign
and related                                       expenditures
Materials                                        (C.I.F. Mombasa) or
90% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory)
(2)  Interest and                    2,000,000
other charges
on the Loan
accrued on or
before
December 31,
1977
(3)  Unallocated                     1,000,000
TOTAL        20,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿14
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the construction of a white oil products pipeline from Mombasa
to Nairobi, with pump stations, storage tank facilities and other related works and
facilities, and the provision of training services. The Project consists of the following
parts:
Part A:     A 452 km pipeline, 14" in diameter, of high strength (API 5Lx52)
steel pipe of 0.280"/0.250" wall thickness, including cathodic
protection, starting at the East African Oil Refinery Limited (EAOR)
Mombasa refinery and terminating in the industrial area southeast of
Nairobi, which shall conform to the design codes and standards set
forth in the Annex hereto.
Part B:     Four electric powered pump stations, one (No. 1) of which will be
located in Mombasa and the other three (Nos. 3, 5 and 7) at
approximately equal distances along the pipeline. Each pump station
will have two pumping units of about 2,600 hp each and a building
to house the control and electrical equipment.
Part C:     A 2 km lateral pipeline, 14" in diameter, from the main pipeline to
the new Nairobi airport at Embakasi (where a hydrant fueling system
will be built to service aircraft from the pipeline storage tanks described
in Part D below.)
Part D:     Storage capacity of about 40,000 m3 for jet fuel at Nairobi airport,
and about 64,000 m3 for gasolines, general purpose kerosene and diesel
oils at the Nairobi receiving depot.
Part E:     Meters and related facilities near pump station No. 1 at Mombasa
which, together with the refinery tankage, will provide accurate
accounting and custody transfer of the products from EAOR to the
Borrower.
Part F:     A receiving and transfer depot in the industrial area of Nairobi adjacent
to the oil companies' distribution depots. This will comprise: (i)
metering and related facilities for proper accounting (in conjunction
with the storage tanks) and custody transfer from the Borrower to
the oil companies, (ii) pumps and connecting pipelines to deliver
products to the adjoining oil company depots for local and upcountry


﻿16
distribution, and (iii) an office building which will accommodate the
administrative and Nairobi operating staffs.
Part G:     Two maintenance depots, one at the Mombasa pump station and one
at the Nairobi depot, which will accommodate maintenance staff,
spares, workshops and maintenance equipment.
Part H:     Living quarters for operating staff at pump stations Nos. 3, 5 and
7.
Part I:     A  supervisory control and telecommunications system  which will
provide operational control from Nairobi and will use exclusive radio
frequency   channels   provided  by   East  African   Posts  and
Telecommunications Corporation's newly commissioned micro-wave
system.
Part J:     Staff training.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1977.


﻿17
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Codes and Standards
ANSI B31-4-1971                            Liquid Petroleum Transportation
Pipeline Systems.
API Std 5LX or 5LS                         Specifications for Line Pipe.
Specification                              27th Edition, March 1973.
API Std 650                                Welded Steel Tanks for Oil
Storage. Fifth Edition, 1973.
API Std 1102                               Liquid Petroleum Pipelines
Crossing Railways and Highways.
Third Edition, 1957.
API Std 1104                               Standard for Welding Pipelines
and Related Facilities.
BS:CPl021: 1973                            British Standard Code of
Practices for Cathodic
Protection, or equivalent.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
July 1, 1979                                           305,000
January 1, 1980                                        320,000
July 1, 1980                                           330,000
January 1, 1981                                        345,000
July 1, 1981                                           360,000
January 1, 1982                                        375,000
July 1, 1982                                           390,000
January 1, 1983                                        410,000
July 1, 1983                                           425,000
January 1, 1984                                        445,000
July 1, 1984                                           460,000
January 1, 1985                                        480,000
July 1, 1985                                           500,000
January 1, 1986                                        525,000
July 1, 1986                                           545,000
January 1, 1987                                        570,000
July 1, 1987                                           595,000
January 1, 1988                                        620,000
July 1, 1988                                           645,000
January 1, 1989                                        670,000
July 1, 1989                                           700,000
January 1, 1990                                        730,000
July 1, 1990                                           760,000
January 1, 1991                                        795,000
July 1, 1991                                           830,000
January 1, 1992                                        865,000
July 1, 1992                                           900,000
January 1, 1993                                        940,000
July 1, 1993                                           980,000
January 1, 1994                                       1,020,000
July 1, 1994                                          1,065,000
January 1, 1995                                       1,100,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿19
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                            1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but                            2-1/2%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                         4-1/2%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           6-3/4%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                         7-1/2%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                            8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    The contracts for the purchase of line pipe and related materials shall be
let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preferences for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya.


﻿21
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
E.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for line pipe and related materials:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award


﻿22
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
'Nw


