CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1133 KE
Guarantee Agreement
(Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Products Pipeline Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1133 KE
Guarantee Agreement
(Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Products Pipeline Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Kenya Pipeline Company Limited (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank
has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or iestriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and


﻿4
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
.Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes:
(a)   to subscribe for share capital of the Borrower in an amount of not
less than eighty million Kenya Shillings;
(b)   to lend or cause to be lent to the Borrower an amount of not less
than one hundred and twenty million Kenya Shillings, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
provision that such debt shall be subordinated to all other debts of the Borrower;
(c)   Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available
to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required
for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures; and
(d)   to ensure that, except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no part of the Project shall be financed by private equity participation nor
shall any part of the share capital of the Borrower be subscribed for or transferred
to any party other than the Guarantor.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of


﻿5
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date; and (iii) any charges on the General Fund of the East African Communi-
ty (hereinafter called the Community) securing a debt of the Community where
the amount of the debt service on such debt in any financial year together with
other debt service on other debt of the Community payable from such General
Fund in such financial year does not exceed 2% of the average customs and excise
duties collected by the East African Customs and Excise Department in the three
financial years preceding such incurrence. For the purposes of this paragraph, "debt
service" shall include payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, debt; and any reference to incurring of debt shall include the assumption and
guarantee of debt and any renewal, extension or modification of the terms of
the debt or of the assumption or guarantee thereof.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall cause East African Oil Refinery Limited
(EAOR) to construct additional storage capacity and suction booster pumps within
the EAOR compound to move the products from EAOR tanks to the first pump
station on the Project pipeline.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall ensure that, to the extent that the route
of the Project pipeline traverses Government and trust land, there will be no delay
in making available such land for Project purposes.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take all such measures as may be necessary
to enable the Borrower to: (a) establish and maintain the tariffs referred to in
Section 5.03 of the Loan Agreement, arbd, in particular, to levy a tariff rate of
not less than Kenya Shillings 90 per m  (or such other rate as may be agreed
upon from time to time by the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank) on oil
products transported through the Project pipeline; and (b) retain, after payment
of all duties, levies or charges payable by it to the Guarantor, sufficient resources
to meet the requirements specified in Section 5.03(a)(ii) of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of the Guarantor responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿6
For the Guarantor:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:
FINANCE
Nairobi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Bernard Adundo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


