Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16186
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
(LOAN 3126-UNI)
December 20, 1996
Agriculture 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994       1995      1996
7.36      8.05      9.91     17.26     22.05     21.89      21.89     84.13
US$ 1.00 equivalent in Naira
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP         -            Agricultural Development Project
EDF         -            European Development Fund
ERR         -            Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP      -            Food and Agriculture Organisation/Co-operative Programme
FFB         -            Fresh Fruit Bunch
FDARD       -            Federal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
FGN         -            Federal Government of Nigeria
FMAWRRD  -               Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural
Development
FMA         -            Federal Ministry of Agriculture
ICB         -            International Competitive Bidding
MCS         -            Mixed Crop Smallholders
NES          -           Nucleus Estate
NIFOR        -           Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
PB          -            Participating Banks
PS          -            Processing Sub-Projects
SAP         -            Structural Adjustment Programme
SMC         -            Smallholder Mono Cropping
TCMEU       -            Tree Crops Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
TCU         -            Tree Crops Unit
Vice President     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director           Surjit Singh (Acting)
Technical Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader : Claude Carlier



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
(Ln 3126-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION   SUMMARY  ...................................................................
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction ........              .....................................................................I
Project Objectives ..................................................................I
Achievement of Objectives ..................................................................2
Project Cost and Financing ..................................................................7
Implementation Experience ........                     .........................................................7
Project Sustainability .................................................................                                                            10
Bank Performance .................................................................  I1
Borrower Performance .................................................................                                                              12
Assessment of Outcome .................................................................. 12
Future Operations .................................................................. 13
Key Lessons Learned .................................................................                                                               14
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments .................................................................                                                 15
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .................................................................                                             17
Table 3:  Project Timetable .................................................................                                                      17
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .............................................. 18
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................................................                              19
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .................................................................                                   20
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project.                          ............................................                   ..................... 20
Table 8A:  Project Costs .................................................................                                                         21
Table 8B:  Project Financing .................................................................                                                     22
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................................                                           22
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants .................................................................                                              23
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................................................. 25
Table 12:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .................................................................                                         25
Table 13. Bank Resources:  Missions .................................................................                                              26
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B. Borrower 's Evaluation Summary
Appendix C: Map
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
off icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
(Ln. 3126-UNI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tree Crops Project in
Nigeria for which World Bank Loan 3126-UNI, in the amount of US$106 million was
approved by the Board of Directors on October 17, 1989, and made effective on July 5,
1991. US$50 million loan was cancelled between May 1993 and April 1994. The loan
was closed as scheduled on 31 December 1995. Final disbursement took place on July 3,
1996 at which time a balance of US$36,837,035 was cancelled.
The draft ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO Co-operative
Programme/World Bank which visited Nigeria during the period February 5 to 16, 1996'.
It is based on material in the project files, field investigations and discussions with Bank
and FGN staff associated with the project. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by arranging field visits and meetings, providing detailed data and information as
well as comments on the mission's Aide-Memoire. The Borrower's own Evaluation
Summary can be found in Appendix B. The draft FAO/CP report was reviewed by Messrs
Claude Carlier, Tree Crops Specialist, AFTA2, who also finalized the report incorporating
the views of other Bank staff.
This mission consisted of Messrs. H. Trupke (FAO mission leader) and G. B6deker (FAO Financial
Analyst/Economist). Mr. Dele Ilebani (Operation Officer, Bank RMN) accompanied the mission.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
(Ln. 3126-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.   In late 1984, the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) expressed its interest in
developing the oil palm subsector. In 1985/86 the Bank identified and prepared a
subsector support project and decided to enlarge the scope of its inquiry to include other
tree crops. In early 1987, a Bank mission concluded that the tree crops subsector had an
important role to play, both as a saver and as an earner of foreign exchange and that the
incentive and trade framework was favorable to investment in the subsector. Agreement
was reached with the Government that the proposed oil palm project should be enlarged
to include financing for the short term needs in rubber processing. In October 1987, an
FAO/CP mission prepared this project.
Project Objectives
2.    The project was designed to contribute to the Government's short to medium term
foreign exchange, production, income, employment, and nutritional objectives. It was also
in line with the Bank's country strategy for promoting growth in agriculture and for
facilitating greater private sector involvement in the growth process. The project's main
objective was to help Nigeria to improve the production of palm oil in order to satisfy the
increasing local demand. The project was also to support oil palm research and to promote
the private sector by supporting smallholders development and private palm oil and rubber
processing units. The five year project was to be implemented during the period 1990-1994
and comprised the following components:
(a) AKWAPALM: Planting of 3,000 ha of oil palm for the Nucleus Estate
(NES) and 4,000 ha of oil palm block planting for smallholders (SMC),
construction of a 20 tons ffb/hour mill;
(b) ADAPALM/ABIAPALM: Planting of 5,000 ha of oil palm for the
Nucleus Estate and 5,000 ha of oil palm block planting for smallholders
(SMC); construction of a 20 tons ffb/hour mill;
(c) Tree Crops Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (TCMEU): Establishment
of 75 oil palm nurseries in 15 States for the supply of seedlings to farmers
for planting of 35,000 ha in mixed-crop smallholdings (MCS);



2                                         Part I.* Project Implementation Assessment
(d) Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR): Support for
improving oil palm seed production facilities including relevant research
station equipment and infrastructure;
(e) Palm oil and Rubber Processing Sub-projects: Private investment
through processing sub-projects (PS) appraised, approved and supervised
by private participating banks (PB); and
(f) Support Activities: Monitoring and evaluation, training studies and
technical assistance.
3.    The project objectives were clear, realistic and most relevant to the country and the
sector. Also the planned physical targets were attainable. The fact that they were not, or
only partially achieved, has to be attributed to the socio-political and economic
circumstances, than to project design. In general, the project was simple in its design and
therefore not too demanding for the Borrower; it was flexible enough to be adjusted to
changing circumstances. The extreme and unexpectable delays which occurred prior to
start-up and during implementation, however, could not be accommodated within the given
time frame.
Achievement of Objectives
4.    The main physical objectives were the establishment of 8,000 ha of NES, 9,000 ha
of SMC and 35,000 ha of MCS oil palm plantings to high yielding Tenera palms, the
construction of two 20 tons ffb/hr mills together with the provision of transport and other
equipment, as well as the upgrading of NIFOR's capacity to produce high quality planting
material, mainly through improved electrification and water supply.  In addition, 75 oil
palm nurseries were to be established. These will be reviewed in detail below, while
another main objective, namely, the involvement of the private sector in the construction
and/or rehabilitation of oil palm and rubber processing facilities was not implemented (see
paras. 17-18).
5.    AKWAPALM. The company is a Akwa Ibom State enterprise (parastatal). At
appraisal, it was foreseen that 3,000 ha of oil palm would be planted as an extension of the
existing Ekor Estate made of about 1,300 ha of old palms which were due for replanting
after 1998. The project was to be implemented on suitable land already acquired and
identified which communities had  already agreed to transfer to Akwapalm.  No
resettlement was anticipated but landlords were to be compensated for economic trees.
Furthermore financial provision was made for 4,000 ha of SMC plantings and the
construction of a 20 tons ffb/hr mill. The existing old mill with about 1 ton ffb/hr capacity
was to be rehabilitated and used while awaiting the construction of the new mill. The
appointment of a private management company was a condition for Bank disbursement.



Part I:. Project Implementation Assessment                          3
6.    While the project was appraised in July 1988, loan signed in October 1990 and
became effective in July 1991, the Certificate of Occupancy for the allocated land was
issued only in November 1993, i.e. more than 5 years after the project appraisal. By that
time, a major portion of the land which was allocated to the project had been cultivated by
squatters who, encouraged by politicians and Board members, were asking for high
compensation to release the land. Since the access to the allocated land was denied by the
local population, the Bank suggested to the Akwa Ibom Government to develop this area
for smallholders and to replant the 1,300 ha of the existing NES. The State Government
rejected the Bank proposal.  After lengthy negotiations and payment of substantial
compensation, about 150 ha became available by the end of 1993 and another 250 ha in
mid-1994 resulting in a new net planted area of 330 ha. In view of the uncertainty in
developing the remaining allocated land, the mid-term review mission (July 1994)
recommended to Akwapalm's management to limit the development to the replanting of the
existing estate. By end of 1995 a total of 732 ha of the existing NES was replanted bringing
the total area developed under the project to 1,062 ha (330 ha of new planting and 732 ha of
replanting), i.e. 35% of the appraisal objectives of 3,000 ha.
7.    In order to compensate for the shortfall in allocated land for NES development
Akwapalm, has recently negotiated access to land in another area bordering the western side
of the present estate. In contrast to the initial arrangements, the land would remain
traditionally owned with contractual agreements for usage and shareholdings in the NES by
the landowners. Land clearing of the new site started on about 100 ha but again dispute has
also started about compensation. Although a manager was appointed in late 1993 for the
development of the SMC program, only 264 ha i.e. 0.6% of the objectives of 4,000 ha have
been planted. This poor achievement is mainly due to delays in appointing the manager of
this program and to Board members and external political interference in the selection of the
areas to be developed, without taking into account the agreed project design which clearly
indicated that plantings should only be made within a maximum radius of 25 km around the
NES. Therefore the total area planted by Akwapalm under this project component is 1,326
ha (1,062 ha of NES and 264 ha of SMC), i.e. 19% of the project component objectives of
7,000 ha.
8.    Based on the assumption that oil palm fruit bunches from the NES, the SMC as well
as from MCS farms and wild palm groves in the vicinity of the estate would require
processing, a 20 tons ffb/hr mill was to be constructed and the small existing mill to be
rehabilitated. For two years the Board of Directors was opposed to the rehabilitation of the
existing processing facilities and instead, had the intention to purchase locally, without
invitation to bid or prior consultation, a second hand mill at a cost of US$1.5 million. Since
the procurement procedures were not respected, the Bank did not approve the financing of
this mill and the existing old mill was finally rehabilitated during 1994. On the grounds
that the expected crop from the planted area so far cannot justify an investment in a large
(10-20 tons ffb/hr) new mill, the Bank has recommended the construction of a smaller mill
with a capacity of 2 to 3 tons but later rejected requests for financing as the financial rate of



4                                       Part I:. Project Implementation Assessment
return was still negative. Also, because of the very poor achievement of the project, an
extension of the loan closing date was not acceptable to Bank management. At the
inception of the project, it was the intention of the State Government to privatize
Akwapalm. The Bank, therefore, recommended to accelerate the privatization process so as
to let the private sector decide on the future processing arrangements and investments for
the company.
9.    ABIAPALM. At the inception of the project, this component was implemented
by ADAPALM, the oil palm development being located at Ukwa in Imo State.
Following the bifurcation of Imo State into Imo and Abia States in July 1991, the project
became located in Abia State. The company was then renamed ABIAPALM. The SAR
target for Abiapalm consisted of 5,000 ha of NES and 5,000 ha SMC plantings together
with the provision of estate infrastructure and the construction of a 20 tons ffb/hr mill.
Adapalm started the NES development in 1989 before the Loan became effective by
using its own financial resources for pre-financing and at the time of the bifurcation,
1,639 ha had already been planted. As a result of the bifurcation process, including the
finalization of procedures for assets sharing between Imo and Abia States and the signing
of the amended Loan and Project Agreements, project activities remained at a standstill
for a period of 33 months. The only exception was the additional planting of 191 ha of
NES during this period. Project activities resumed in April 1994. Since then, 117 ha of
NES were planted to oil palm in 1994 and another 607 ha in 1995, bringing the total
planted area to 2,554 ha, i.e. 51% of the objectives. The outgrower sub-component did
not start until end 1994 at which time 15 ha SMC were planted. During 1995 another 60
ha were planted bringing the total SMC development to 75 ha, i.e. only 1.5% of the
objectives. Therefore the total planted area under the Project was 2,629 ha (2,554 ha of
NES and 75 ha of SMC), i.e. 26 % of the project objectives of 10,000 ha.
10.   Under the original development program a 20 tons ffb/hr palm oil mill was to be
erected. However, in view of the reduced planting program, the mid-term review report
indicated that only a 10 tons fib/hr mill would be needed. At the same time it was decided
to carry out urgent repairs to an existing 5 tons ffb/hr mill located at Mbwasi belonging to
Abiapalm. Repairs included the provision of a new 200 KVA generator set, a new screw
press, two water pumps for the boilers and the necessary equipment and chemicals for the
treatment of the water used for the boilers. These repairs were carried out during 1995. The
mill is presently operating at about 15% of its capacity. Because of the poor achievement of
the project, an extension of the Loan closing date to finance a new mill was not acceptable
to Bank management. It was, therefore, recommended to the Abiapalm's management to
transfer the Mbwasi mill to the Ukwa nucleus estate site. With the latest repairs, the mill
capacity could be easily increased from 5 to 6-7 tons ffb/hr which would be sufficient to
process the crop from the Ukwa area for the next 6 to 8 years.
11.   TCMEU: In addition to carrying out the monitoring and evaluation of the project,
the Tree Crops Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the Federal Department of Agriculture
located at Benin City was to assist in the overall project coordination as well as the



Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                           5
management of the Mixed Crops Smallholders component in respect of establishment of
oil palm nurseries. Furthermore, the unit was to contract out studies to evaluate the
different mixed cropping systems integrated with oil palm cultivation in terms of
financial attractiveness, economic benefits and environmental effects and was to
document the experience of various smallholder tree crop programs in Nigeria in respect
of provision and recovery of credit.
12.   The main activity of the TCMEU was the implementation of the mixed crop
smallholder (MCS) program. The program covered the establishment of 75 oil palm
nurseries in 15 States of the Nigerian oil palm belt. The objective of the sub-component
was to provide sufficient oil palm seedlings to farmers to interplant 35,000 ha of mixed-
crop holdings with a density of 70 palms per hectare. The activities had a slow start and
the first seedlings were only distributed in 1993. At of the loan closing date, 6,075 ha
were planted representing 17% of the project objectives. The reasons for delays and
inadequate performance were manifold but of particular importance were the non
payment of counterpart funds, delays in procurement approval by the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture (FMA) resulting in lack of materials and equipment for nursery operation,
lack of transport equipment resulting in inadequate staff mobility for site supervision, and
internal management problems. These problems were compounded by the fact that the
National Accelerated Industrial Crops Production Program (NAICPP) which was
introduced by FMA in 1994, was distributing seedlings free of charge for some time thus
creating confusion in the implementation of the MCS program where seedlings were sold
to farmers.
13.   From  the beginning, the nursery management was provided by the State
Smallholder Units of the MOA. However, in order to provide better logistical support and
access to operating funds, it was foreseen at appraisal that the management of all MCS
nurseries would be transferred to the State ADPs starting from September 1994. TCMEU
was to continue with the supervision and monitoring of this project component and after
consultation with the ADPs was to determine for each year the selling price of the oil palm
seedlings. Seedlings were to be sold to the farmers at the ADPs average production cost.
At loan closing only one state had transferred its nurseries to the ADP and the sale price of
seedlings was still under its actual cost. The nurseries visited by the ICR mission were
found in poor condition and were still lacking adequate watering equipment. Reportedly
most of the other nurseries suffer from the same problems, which will continue to affect the
implementation of the MC S program.
14.   TCMEU's project monitoring and evaluation performance was weak throughout the
project period due mainly to the lack of mobility and counterpart funding. Consultants for
the study program (see para. 11) which should have started by the end of 1992, were
identified and approved by the Bank, but were finally rejected by the FMA. Therefore the
studies were not executed. Although no detailed training program for TCMEU staff had
been elaborated at appraisal, a total of 10 weeks of local training and 57 weeks of overseas
training were imparted based on authorizations given by various supervision missions. The



6                                       Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
palm oil processing expert to assist the Participating Bank's (PB) in executing the
processing sub-project component had been recruited. Although the component was not
implemented, the expert was retained until mid 1995 so as to provide technical support to
private and public owned palm oil mills.
15.   NIFOR: The main objective of the component was to improve the production of
selected oil palm seeds to satisfy local demand. While NIFOR had enough parent trees to
produce the seeds, the major constraint for the production of germinated seeds was the lack
of equipment, water and electricity, which were to be overcome with the help of the project.
By loan closing the equipment situation has been substantially improved. Electricity
supply, however, was riddled with problems. Before the loan became effective, NIFOR had
signed a contract with a local contractor to connect the research station with the national
electricity grid. However, Bank procurement procedures were not respected and NIFOR
had to terminate the contract. Under a new contract work resumed three years later and was
nearly completed. Unfortunately, in mid 1995, part of the powerline was vandalized. At
the time of the ICR mission works were nearly concluded. For the water supply sub-
component a consultant had been hired to elaborate detailed designs, identify equipment
requirements and prepare tender documents.  Due to numerous delays, however,
submissions were too late to be considered for Bank financing. All laboratory equipment
to enhance NIFOR's fusarium research capabilities were purchased in time and financed
under the project.
16.   Since early January 1994 NIFOR's activities suffered from frequent industrial
actions. As a result, selected seed production dropped from 3 million seeds in 1993 to
0.8 million in 1994 and 0.3 million in 1995. Consequently there were substantial shortfalls
in delivery of seeds to the oil palm development program . Under normal working
conditions, NIFOR should have been able to produce about 4 million seeds annually.
Under the project, selected NIFOR staff benefited from a total of 27 weeks of overseas
training.
17.   Palm Oil and Rubber Processing Sub-projects: An amount of US$50 million was
allocated for this project component together with an assumed local contribution of US$25
million from participating banks and private investors. This was to finance four palm oil
mills of 10 tons ffb/hr and 56 mills of 1-3 tons ffb/hr amounting to a total additional new
capacity of 115 tons ffb/hr. In addition, five new lines for crumb rubber at 10 ton/day
capacity were to be constructed and 15 existing factories were to be rehabilitated providing
an average of 2 tons/day additional capacity each. To ensure proper channeling of funds
and the participation of commercial banks it was agreed that the FGN would make funds
available to the participating banks (PB) for the importation of equipment required to
construct the new processing facilities or to rehabilitate the existing ones. The signature of
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) between the FGN and PB with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank was a disbursement condition.  However, FGN, which at
negotiations agreed to take the foreign exchange risk by re-lending in Naira at the domestic



Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                          7
interest rate, was later reluctant to do so and requested the PBs to agree to take the exchange
risks.
18.   As a result, no SLA was signed during the first 18 months of the project. With the
agreement of the FGN, a sum of US$20 million was canceled from the Loan in May 1993.
Since by June 30, 1993 no SLA was signed, an additional US$20 million was canceled in
July 1993 leaving a balance of US$10 million. At the same time the Bank informed the
FGN and the PBs that, unless the SLAs are signed and funds committed prior to December
31, 1993, the US$ 10 million balance would be canceled. Two signed SLAs were received a
few days before this date but without any commitment of funds. As a result the last US$10
million allocated to the sub-project was canceled in April 1994.
Project Cost and Financing
19.   At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$160 million financed by an IBRD
Loan of US$106 million, a contribution of US$17.7 million by the estate companies;
participation of private investors and banks was assumed to reach US$25.0 million and
smallholder's contribution US$8.2 million, while States and Federal contributions were
estimated at US$1.4 and US$1.7 million respectively. The Loan was approved by the
Board on October 17, 1989, signed on October 12, 1990 and became effective on July 5,
1991, i.e., 21 months after Board approval. As a result, project implementation actually
started in 1992, i.e. 3 years behind the SAR schedule. The project was expected to be
completed by December 31, 1994 with a loan closing date of December 31, 1995.
20.   The most significant modification made during implementation was the cancellation
of the Line of Credit (LOC) for the palm oil and rubber processing sub-projects (see para. 2
(e) ). At appraisal it had been estimated that there would be demand by the private sector
for funding of 60 oil mills with a total capacity of 115 tons/ffb/hr, the construction and
rehabilitation of rubber factories as well as for transport, manufacturing and agricultural
equipment. Total cost of the component was estimated at US$75 million of which the
IBRD financed LOC which would provide US$50 million. Due to the non-fulfillment of
the disbursement conditions, the project component was canceled on December 31, 1993.
(For details see paras. 17 and 18).
Implementation Experience
21.   The project had a very slow start. The loan became effective on July 5, 1991, i.e.,
31 months after negotiations in November 1988. This long delay had very much slowed the
momentum of project planning, organization and implementation.  Furthermore the
bifurcation of Imo State into two states, Abia and Imo, which was carried out in August
1991, resulted in a long drawn out asset sharing exercise and project activities at Abiapalm
remained at a standstill for 33 months. The Akwapalm component was delayed due to
disputes over land tenure and compensation (see para. 6-7)



8                                         Part I:. Project Implementation Assessment
22.   The project started to gain momentum in late 1993. By 1994, industrial action at
NIFOR affected seed production, which became an additional problem for the 1995
planting program. As a consequence of the seriously delayed planting program of both
NES and smallholders and uncertainties over future expansion, it became clear that the
originally envisaged milling capacity of 20 tons ffb/hr at both NES locations was not any
more required. Subsequently specifications were reduced to 5 and 10 tons for Akwapalm
and Abiapalm respectively and was further revised downward to 2-3 tons for Akwapalm in
October 1995, but their construction did not materialize (see paras. 8 and 10).
23.   As a consequence of the substantial reduction in areas planted to oil palm, the fact
that no new mills were constructed and the cancellation of the line of credit for processing
sub-projects, total disbursement amounted to US$19.2 million i.e. about 18% of the original
target of US$106 million and 34% of the revised target of US$56 million. Actual project
cost has been estimated at US$27.7 million with a foreign cost component of
US$16.6 million and local expenditures amounting to US$11.1 million.
24.   Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control: Project implementation was
adversely affected by industrial action of the labor force at NIFOR. Funding prospects for
processing sub-projects under the LOC were considerably reduced by the severe
depreciation of the Naira against all major currencies which, starting in 1992, substantially
increased the foreign exchange risk (see para. 17-18).
25.   Factors Subject to Goverment Control: Negotiations were completed and the
agreed minutes of negotiations were signed on November 28, 1988. Board presentation had
to be postponed several times pending FGN's formal approval of the negotiated documents
and finally took placed on October 17, 1989. Further administrative delays at Federal and
State levels including the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the nomination
and confirmation of authorized signatories, postponed the Loan signature to October 12,
1990, and its effectiveness to July 5, 1991.
26.   One of the main factors affecting project implementation was the lack of counterpart
funds at the early stage of the project implementation. Funding for Abiapalm and
Akwapalm only improved from 1994 onwards when the respective State Governments
authorized the deduction of counterpart funds "at source" in monthly payments of
N2.2 million and N2.5 million respectively . NIFOR was persistently under-funded and
TCMEU had only received counterpart funds equivalent to about US$123,000 representing
less than 10% of the appraisal estimated requirement of US$1.3 million. The late approval
of procurement of material and equipment for the MCS nurseries by the FMA has resulted
in substantial losses of planting material and delay in project implementation of this
2  At that time this was equivalent to about US$100,000 and US$114,000 but has deteriorated by end of
1995 to about US$26,000 and US$30,000 respectively due to the devaluation of the Naira.



Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                          9
component. The Abiapalm component seriously suffered from the long drawn-out asset
sharing exercise which can partly be attributed to lack of Federal rules and regulations
governing the bifurcation of States, creation of new States, as well as a lack of political will
and decision at the State level. The appointment of a non qualified manager to Abiapalm
also affected project implementation. The failure of Akwa-Ibom State to allocate land
without encumbrance to Akwapalm and the refusal to shift the development from NES to
SMC in the allocated land area has led to the substantial under-achievement of that
component. The stance of FGN not to carry the foreign exchange risks and re-lend in Naira
to the participating banks has delayed the start-up of the processing sub-projects by over 2
years and finally resulted in the cancellation of the US$50 million line of credit.
27.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control: The project was to be
implemented under the overall responsibility of the then Federal Ministry of Agriculture,
Water Resources and Rural Development (FMAWRRD). The main executing agencies
were Abiapalm, Akwapalm and NIFOR. TCMEU had responsibility for the overall project
coordination, monitoring and evaluation and at the same time the supervision function for
the implementation of the MCS nursery program to be implemented by the State
TCU's/SMU's or ADP's. In general project coordination, monitoring and evaluation was
very weak. This could be partly attributed to a lack of counterpart funding to TCMEU but
also to a lack of authority and political will from the Federal Government.
28.   Following the bifurcation of Imo State into Imo and Abia States, Abiapalm
activities remained at a standstill during 33 months while awaiting for the completion of
asset sharing process, the signing of the Project and Loan Amendment documents and the
signing of the Management contract. Activities were resumed in April 1994 and following
the review of Abiapalm achievements by the Bank a new development phasing was agreed.
Abiapalm was to submit a revised procurement schedule and business plan by August 1994
and to recruit a qualified procurement officer by October 1994. The former was received
after a long delay but the procurement officer was never appointed. Throughout the project
period and especially during the last year, Bank procurement procedures were not respected
including excess of Local Purchase Orders above the authorized threshold, splitting of
orders and false invoices, which led to a rejection of financing by the Bank. Also the
agreed combination of A and B signatories was not respected. As a result two signatories
from the same category have been able to sign checks and money orders without proper
control which was corrected only after several requests from the Bank. Furthermore a
General Manager who was not suitably qualified for the position was appointed and
confirmed in its position by the State Government despite the Bank's objections.
29.   Akwapalm suffered from a series of shortcomings. The component was plagued
throughout most of the period by a poor relation between Akwapalm Management and its
Board of Directors and especially by the continuing interference of the Board in the day-to-
day project execution, which lead inter alia to a considerable instability of management and
subsequent delays in implementation. The Board's insistence on the purchase of a second
hand mill (see para. 9) has affected the rehabilitation program of the existing mill. Major



10                                      Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
disputes between the management and Board members for the procurement of goods in
accordance with Bank procedures halted the procurement process and no progress was
being made in implementing the project. Two years after the inception of the project not
even the oil palm nursery was established.  Only with the advent of a new State
Government in 1994, changes in the Board of Directors and the appointment of a new
General Manager in 1995, the last year of project implementation, the situation improved
and considerable progress were made during the last 6 months of the project. Although it
was not a primary project objective it was expected that Akwapalm would be privatized
during the project period. A draft prospectus was prepared but not finalized and, as a result,
there is no participation of private investment in Akwapalm with the exception of
SOCFINCO, the management company which has a share of 10% in the company capital.
30.   The failure to transfer the nurseries of the MCS program to the ADPs (see para. 13)
has deprived them of access to operating funds, equipment, labor force and logistics
resulting in poor seedling quality and under-delivery in quantitative terms. NIFOR's
delayed action with regard to the electricity and water supply sub-components has led to a
still pending completion of the connection to the main electricity grid and a non-
achievement of the water supply and distribution network. Both NIFOR and the MCS
program failed to charge actual cost for planting material with a resulting loss of operating
capital and revenue.
31.   The performance of contractors and suppliers was generally satisfactory. It was a
condition of loan effectiveness that both Abiapalm and Akwapalm would enter into a
management contract with a private estate management organization. This was done and
the company performed satisfactorily throughout the period. There were also no major
problems with construction contractors and suppliers of equipment with the exception of 7t'^e
replacement installation of the nursery watering system at Abiapakn=   S  -' the first
installed watering system equipment was stolen, a new contract was awa-tdei .' L . "t
for the supply and installation of new equipment. However, the watering system is not yet
operational due to shortcomings of the contractor and delayed payments by Abiapalm.
Project Sustainability
32.   As indicated earlier, the project only gained momentum in 1994 and only 18% of
the original loan amount has been disbursed. It is, therefore, practically impossible to
assess the impact and sustainability of the project. It is, however, relatively clear that
investments undertaken by the nucleus estates will be in vain if no action is taken to ensure
the processing of the upcoming crops.
33.   Abiapalm is unable to finance a new mill out of its own resources as it shows a
continuing negative cash flow (estimated at N205 million or about US$2.4 million for
1995). The Abia State's financial position is precarious and would not allow an investment
of that size. Under the prevailing economic situation of the country, prospects for private



Part I:. Project Implementation Assessment                           11
sector investment are rather gloomy. The sustainability of the component appears highly
uncertain. The cost of the FFB transport from Ukwa to the existing underutilized 5 tons
ffb/hr mill located at Mbwasi is high and large quantities of FFB are usually lost (stolen)
during their transport. The transfer of the Mbwasi mill to Ukwa needs to be technically and
financially evaluated. In the long term, the most viable alternative appears to be the
installation of a new mill at Ukwa, as suggested by the Bank supervision mission of
October 1995.
34.   Similar observation apply for the Akwapalm component. As indicated (see para. 8),
the Bank has recommended the privatization of Akwapalm to attract private investments,
including those in processing facilities. This, however, is not likely to happen in the near
future. Unless financing for at least a 3 tons ffb/hr mill is found from other sources, it is
quite clear that the investments undertaken so far cannot be sustained as not enough income
will be generated from the existing mature areas.
35.   The sales price of germinated seeds and seedlings by NIFOR is still not based on
full cost recovery.  Nevertheless the component appears sustainable since FMA,
recognizing the need for quality planting material, is prepared to cover the shortfall. The
nurseries established in support of the MCS are still not fully operational and will not be
sustainable unless they are brought in the fold of the respective state ADPs.
Bank Performance
36.   A total of five missions were launched to advance the project towards appraisal.
Between effectiveness and loan closing, the Bank has fielded 10 supervision missions
including a mid-term review (see Table 13). Most supervision missions consisted of the
operations officer and a tree crop specialist which is considered adequate for this type of
project and there was remarkable staff continuity. Already at an early stage (1991) the
project was classified as a "problem project" and it was clear that completion within the
original project period would not be possible and a two-year delay was then anticipated.
Throughout the project implementation period, there were constant incidences of non-
respect of Bank procurement procedures resulting in rejection of financing by the Bank.
Some of these incidences can be attributed to a lack of understanding on the side of the
Borrower, the non appointment of procurement officers and interference in project
management.
37.   It is felt by the Borrower that the Bank was very hasty in closing the loan.
However, in view of the poor achievement of the project (only 19% of the objectives
completed after 5 years) associated with major problems such as the non availability of land
for Akwapalm, the non respect of procurement and financial procedures by Abiapalm, the
non payment of counterpart funds and the lengthy delays in procurement approval for the
TCMEU component, and the generally poor performance of NIFOR, an extension of the
Loan was unacceptable to the Bank management.



12                                      Part !: Project Implementation Assessment
Borrower Performance
38.   The borrower's performance throughout project implementation was very weak. It
was characterized by erratic management, poor Board of Directors-project management
relationship throughout most of the period due to Board interference in day-to-day project
implementation, non-adherence to procurement procedures and financing guidelines, lack of
steady and adequate counterpart funding, political interference as well as inadequate overall
coordination and monitoring mechanisms. More important, in the case of Akwapalm, no
action was taken to either make land available to the project or to shift the development
from nucleus estate to smallholder planting. The Borrower has also made no effort to
resolve the issue of the foreign exchange risk in connection with the LOC for the processing
sub-projects. In light of all the above shortcomings, the Bank decision to close the loan at
the planned closing date was justified despite the fact that during the last few months of the
project, some efforts were made to improve implementation performance particularly at
Akwapalm.
Assessment of Outcome
39.   According to the SAR, the major outcome/benefits of the project were anticipated to
be in two areas, namely increased production of palm oil and rubber, and reduced costs of
production. The increased production was to be derived in the short to medium term
through investment in processing capacities financed under the PS component, through new
oil palm plantings and the Ukwa and Ekor palm oil mills. The contribution from the above
investments was estimated at 70,000 tons of palm oil and 20,000 tons of rubber. In the
longer term (beyond 1995), increased FFB production from high-yielding Tenera was
expected with peak production of oil estimated at 110,000 tons.  Cost of palm oil
production were expected to fall due mainly to the use of Tenera palms and modem
extraction methods.
40.   The results were to be achieved mainly by planting 8,000 ha of NES, 9,000 ha of
SMC and 35,000 ha of MCS with high yielding Tenera palms, by establishing two 20 ton
ffb/hr mills and by establishing, under the processing sub-project component, an additional
115 tons/ffb/hr milling capacity and a processing capacity of 80 tons of rubber per day.
With the failure of the processing sub-component, support to the rubber industry became
totally eliminated and the palm oil milling capacity was reduced.
41.   Of the above planting target of 52,000 ha, only a total of 10,030 ha were planted i.e.
19 % of SAR estimate. No new oil palm mills were constructed which makes processing of
the resulting incremental FFB production almost impossible. As a result, the maintenance
of these plantings and the sustainability of the production is unlikely. The Economic Rate
of Return calculation for the project was based on an economic cost stream which included
all cost of production of crude palm oil (CPO) and an economic benefit stream based on the
economic mill gate price for CPO and resulted in an ERR of 21%. Up till now annual
harvesting of FFB from NES's and SMC's has gradually increased from 1,000 tons in 1990



Part I:. Project Implementation Assessment                          13
to 5,000 tons in 1995 most of which can be attributed to early plantings at Abiapalm. At
full development project financed NES and SMC plantings are expected to result in
approximately 40,000 tons FFB which would result in about 8,000 tons of palm oil. MCS
plantings financed under the project are expected to contribute another 4,000 tons of palm
oil i.e. a total of 12,000 tons of oil or about 18% of the appraisal estimated of 67,000 tons of
palm oil. Furthermore, since the future processing of NES and SMC crops is in serious
doubt, no assumption of future returns could be made and therefore no attempt has been
made to estimate the ERR. In light of the above, the project outcome has been rated as
unsatisfactory.
Future Operations
42.   Following the operational plans prepared by the four main project executing
agencies, there is a wish to continue with the project, although on a considerably reduced
scale and practically without any further substantial investments in plant machinery and
equipment at Abiapalm. The latter is particularly serious as it indicates that no Federal or
State funding for a mill is expected to be forthcoming. Akwapalm forecasts include only
the local cost for the installation of a 3 tons ffb/hr mill on the assumption that the bulk of
the investment would still be provided under a loan. Private sector participation is
anticipated beginning in 1998.
43.   Akwapalm initiative to involve landlords in NES operation and to foster the
participation of farmers in estate cultivation, maintenance and harvesting appears to have
paved the way for a harmonious relationship between the company and its socio-economic
environment and is expected to also result in lower production cost which is desperately
needed to make the company profitable in the future.
44.   Funding for NIFOR's seed production program appears to be secured and thus also
the supply of adequate planting material to the oil palm sub-sector.
45.   As indicated in its operational plan, TCMEU will continue its monitoring and
evaluation activities. There are, however, considerable weaknesses, besides the lack of
vehicles and equipment, which need to be overcome. As a first step, the existing
monitoring and evaluation system has to be strengthened and a comprehensive list of
performance indicators need to be established against which achievements can be measured.
These should include as a minimum a range of physical and financial targets to be achieved
as well as institutional arrangements to be implemented. A tentative list is provided in
Appendix A.



14                                        Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Key Lessons Learned
46.   The following major lessons emerge from the review of this project:
a) Although land owners may agree to release land for development, the actual
occupation of the land can be frustrated as a result of disagreement on compensation
at the time of occupation, particularly when there is a long elapsed time between the
agreement and the occupation. Participation of land owners as shareholders in the
nucleus estate operation could help reduce this risk. The Bank should ensure that
compensations (if any) are paid prior to Board presentation so that land can be used
without encumbrances right from the start of the project.
b) Lines of credit that do not provide for re-lending in local currency and at
domestic cost of money are unlikely to be tapped especially during times of
economic and political uncertainty.
c) A follow-on operation based on the success of an earlier operation runs the risk
of change in commitment with a change in the political structure and the political
administration.
d) As the economy of a nation deteriorates, political and social pressures to subvert
accepted norms of financial and procurement controls become stronger and threaten
the project viability and sustainability.



15                                                                   Part II: Statistical Annexes
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                        LI           LI           EJ             FI
Sector policies                      LI           FI             LI            LI
Financial objectives                               LI           [F]           LI
Institutional development             LI                        LII            LI
Physical objectives                  El           FI             LI            El
Poverty reduction                    [I            LI            LI            LI
Gender issues                         LI           LI            LI            FI
Other social objectives               LI           LI            LI            EI
Environmental objectives              LI           LI            LI            LI
Public sector management             LI            LI            LI            L
Private sector development           LI            LI            LI            LI
Other (specify)                      LI            LI            LI            LI
Cont' d...



16                                                                     Part II. Statistical Annexes
B. Project sustainability           Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
-I          LI           LI
C. Bank performance                Highly     Satisfactory   Deficient
satisfactorv
Identification                  EI           F[            LI
Preparation assistance          LI             [i         LII
Appraisal                        LI           LI          [II
Supervision                     EI            LE          Eli
Highly     Satisfactory   Deficient
satisfactory
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                     n             LI           LI
Implementation                   L ]            II        FI
Covenant compliance              LI           LI           F I
Operation (if applicable)        LI           LI              II
E. Assessment of outcome           Highly     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Highly
satisfactory                               unsatisfactory
L1   LI                    LI               LI



Part IIH  Statistical Annexes                                                                        17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits3
Loan/credit title          Purpose              Year of approval             Status
Preceding operations
1. Nucleus Estate and   To support oil palm               1980           Completed
Smaliholder Oil Palm    planting and processing
Project (Ln. 1591 UNI)    mainly in Rivers State
2. East Central State Oil   To support oil palm           1977           Completed
Palm Project (Ln. 1191  planting and processing
UNI).                   mainly in Imo State
Following operations     n.a.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Date planned4         Date actual/latest
estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary                -                 February 1987
Preparation                                              -                 October 1987
Appraisal                                            May 1988                July 1988
Negotiations                                             -                November 1988
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                       -                October 17, 1989
Signing                                           November 1988            October 1990
Effectiveness                                        April 1989             July 5, 1991
Mid-Term review (if applicable)                                              July 1994
Project completion                                December 1994         Project not completed
Loan closing                                      December 1995           December 1995
As provided in the SAR
Same as in 3/



18                                                                      Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 90  FY 91  FY 92  FY 93    FY 94    FY 95        FY 96         FY 97
Appraisal Estimate        1.7    17.6  32.4    61.8       99.3   106.0       (106.0)5
Revised Estimate            -       -   3.2      4.4       6.9    12.9        19.0       56.0
Actual                      -       -   3.2      4.3       6.8    14.1        19.1       19.2
Actual as % of Appr.Est.    -       -   9.9      7.0       6.9    13.3        18.1
Actual as % of Rev.Est.     -       -   100       98        99     109       101         34
Date of Final                                            July 3, 1996
Disbursement
5  No disbursements were anticipated for FY 1996.
Note: Project financing included a Line Of Credit (LOC) for processing sub-projects amounting to
US$50.0 million. This component was not implemented (see paras. 17-18). US$20 million were cancelled in
May 1993. The cancellation of another US$20 million came into force in July 1993 and the remaining balance
of US$10 was cancelled in April 1994. Against this revised loan amount of US$56 million, US$19.2 has been
disbursed equivalent to 34 % of the revised estimate. The remaining balance of US$36.8 was canceled in
August 1996.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                                         19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.   Key implementation indicators in SAR/ President's Report     Estimated         Actual6
1.  Abiapaim
Oil Palm Planting
Small-holder                                                  5,000 ha          75 ha
Nucleus estate                                                5,000 ha         2,554 ha
Oil Palm Processing Facility
New 20 FFB/hour mill                                              I               0
Rehabilitation of Mbawsi Palm Oil Mill                           0                I
Equipmentl
2.  Akwapalm
Oil Palm Planting
Small-holder                                                  4,000 ha          264 ha
Nucleus estate                                                3,000 ha         1,062 ha
New Planting                                                   n. a.            330 ha
Replanting                                                     n. a.           160 ha
Under-planting                                                 n. a.           572 ha
Oil Palm Processing Facility
New 20 FFB/hour mill                                              I               0
Rehabilitation of old mill and upgrading of 10 km access road    0
3. NIFOR
Civil Works
Fusarium Research
Fencing of site                                                  1                I
Farm house                                                       I                I
Laboratory equipment                                             I                I
Fencing of power station                                         1                I
Electrification                                                   I system        incomplete
Water Supply/Distribution                                         I system        incomplete
4.  TCMEU
Oil Palm Seedling Production
Nursery                                                          75               75
Nurseries handed over to ADPs                                    75               1
Seedling supply to MCSs for                                   35,000 ha        6,075 ha
Civil Works
Design of Benin Office                                           I                I
Design of Owerri Office                                           I               I
Construction of Benin Office                                      I               0
Construction of Owerri Office                                     I               0
Details on vehicles, equipment, material and training program are not fully comparable/available and
therefore are not listed
Data not available.



20                                                                      Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.   Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                Estimated                         Actual
No key indicator for project                 N/A.                             N/A.
operation were provided in the
SAR
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined                Status        Impact
Study                     at appraisal/redefined                            of study
1. Tenera Planting            Determine the characteristics of     not implemented      N/A.
Programmes (SSSTP)            participating farmers.
2. Land and Tree Tenure       Relationship between tenure rights and    not implemented  N/A.
family re'ationships, and oil palm
production.
3. Male and Female Labour     Uses and sources of agricultural labour.   not implemented  N/A.
4. Ecology                    Determine how oil palm fits into a   not implemented      N/A.
pattern of increasingly intensive
cultivation.
5. Comparative Profitability  Study comparative income and risks   not implemented      N/A.
from various crops.
6. Access to Processing       Show how accessibility affects farmers'   not implemented  N/A.
attitudes toward palm culture and
production.
7. Review of tree crops       To formulate improved smallholder    not implemented      N/A.
credit programmes             credit programme



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                                 21
Table 8A: Project Costs8
Appraisal estimate              Actual
(US$ M)                   (US$ M)
Item                   Local  Foreign Total    Local Foreign    Total
costs    costs            costs  costs
1. Oil Palm Nucleus Estate                 13.4   21.1   34.5       9.0     14.9    23.9
Development
2. Palm Oil Nucleus Mills                   5.9    16.1   22.0      0.1      0.2      0.3
3. Oil Palm Smailholder Development         82      41 1.            .         .       .
4. Project Co-ordination and Monitoring     1.3     1.3    2.6      0.5      0.5      0.9
5. Oil Palm Research and Seed               0.9     1.0    1.9      0.5      0.5      1.0
Production
6. Private Sector Processing               17.2    50.6   67.8        -        -        -
Sub-projects
Total Base Costs                    46.9    94.2  141.1      11.1     16.6    27.7
Physical Contingencies                      1.8     2.0    3.8        -        -        -
Price Contingencies                         6.3     8.8   15.1        -        -        -
Total Project Costs                 55.0   105.0  160.0    11.1       16.6    27.7
8   Figures have been rounded



22                                                                   Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$ M)             Actual (US$ M)
Source            Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign       Total
costs     costs                 costs      costs
Oil Palm Development
IBRD                          6.4       49.6       56.0        2.6       16.6        19.2
Federal Government             1.7                  1.7        0.7                    0.7
State Governments              1.4                  1.4        5.4                   5.4
Abiapalm Ltd.                  8.5                  8.5        0.6                   0.6'
Akwapalm Ltd.                 9.2                   9.2        0.5                   0.5
Farmers                        8.2                  8.2        1.3                    1.3
Sub-Total               35.4       49.6       85.0       11.1       16.6       27.7
Processing Sub-projects
IBRD                             -      50.0       50.0          -          -           -
Banks/Private Investors       19.6        5.4      25.0
Total                  55.0      105.0      160.0       11.1       16.6       27.7
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
In view of poor achievements and uncertainty over future developments no attempt has been made to
recalculate the ERR which was estimated by the SAR at 21%.
9   The respective State Governments who are the main shareholders in these companies have paid their contribution to
Abiapalm and Akwapalm. The combined counterpart funds were estimated at US$19.1 million at appraisal compared
with an actual of US$6.5 million
10  see note 9/
see note 9/



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                                                            23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants12
Original      Revised
Covenant Present  fulfilment   fulfilment    Description of
Agreement       Section       type   status        date         date            covenant         Comments 13
OAN L31260  2.02 (b)         3        C                                   Abiapalm,             Fulfilled
Akwapalm, TCMEU,    except for PB
NIFOR and the        (sub-loan
Participating        cancelled)
Banks (PB) to open
Special Accounts.
3.01 (c)        4         C                                   Borrower to make   Partially
counterpart funds  fulfilled
available to TCMEU
and NIFOR
3.01 (d) (i)   3         C                                    Borrower to sign   Fulfilled
Subsidiary Loan
Agreements (SLA)
with Akwa Ibom and
Abia States
3.01 (d) (ii)  3         C                                    Borrower to sign   Two SLAs
Subsidiary Loan      signed but
Agreement with the sub-loan
Participating        cancelled
Banks
3.01 (d) (iii) 3         C                                    Borrower to make   Fulfilled
funds available to
TCMEU and NIFOR
3.03 1. (a)    5         NC                                   Participating        Sub-loan
Banks to             cancelled
strengthen their
lending department
3.03.1.  (h)    5        NC                                   Participating        Sub-loan
Banks to maintain  cancelled
sub-loan separate
accounts
3.03 2. (a)    5                                              NIFOR to sell        Not Fulfilled
seeds and
seedlings at full
cost
3.03 2. (b)     5        C                                    NIFOR to submit      Fulfilled
annual budget
3.03 3. (a)    5         C                                    TCMEU to submit      Fulfilled
annual budget
3.03 3  (b)     9        NYD                                  TCMEU to prepare   Not yet due
project completion
report
3.03 3. (c)    5         C                                    TCMEU to make        Fulfilled
proceeds of loan
to States ADPs
3.03 3. (d)     5        CP                                   TCMEU to employ    Appraisal
processing and       specialist
appraisal            not required
specialists
4.01 (a)        1        C                                    NIFOR and TCMEU to Fulfilled
maintain proper
records of
accounts
4.01 (b)        1         C                                   NIFOR and TCMEU to Fulfilled
submit annual
audited accounts
Cont'd.....
12   This table is based on Annex D5 of OD 13.05, Project Supervision
If the covenant is not complied, or partially complied, the reason is provided.



24                                                                                   Part IIH   Statistical Annexes
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (Cont'd.)
Original      Revised
Covenant Present  fulfilment   fulfilment    Description of
Agreement       Section       type   status        date         date            covenant          Comments
6.01 (b)        5        C                                    Abiapalm and         Fulfilled
Akwapalm to sign
Management
contract
PROJECT      2.01             3        C                                   Abiapalm and          Fulfilled
Akwapalm to open
Special Account,
Project and SMC
accounts
3.01            1        C                                    Abiapalm and         Fulfilled
Akwapalm to submit
annual audited
accounts
2.02            3         C                                   Abia and Akwa Ibom Fulfilled
States to sign       Deduction at
Second Subsidiary  source signed
lLoan Agreement
with Abiapalm and
Akwapalm
2.05 (i)        4        C                                    Abia and Akwa Ibom Fulfilled
States to make
counterpart funds
available to
Abiapalm and
Akwapalm.
2.05 (ii)       4         C                                   Abia and Akwa Ibom Fulfilled
to make available
Naira 500,000 and
Naira 300,000,
respectively, to
Abiapalm and
Akwapalm for the
Smallholder
Development
Programme
2.06            5         C                                   Abia and Akwa Ibom Fulfilled
States to sign a
Services and
Inputs Supply
Management
Agreement with
Abiapalm and
Akwapalm for the
smallholder
Programme (SMC).
Covenant Class
1    - Accounts/audit
2      Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3    - Flow and utilisation of Project funds
4      Counterpart funding
5      Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6    - Environmental covenants
7    - Involuntary resettlement
8    - Indigenous people
9    - Monitoring, review and reporting
10 - Implementation
11 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12   - Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 - Other
Status
C    - Complied with
CD - Compliance after Delay
NC - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due



Part II. Statistical Annexes                                                                          25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title          I    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
The most significant lack of compliance occurred in respect of adherence to procurement procedures and
designation of signatories.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks             US$
Through appraisal                 163.0             252.4
Appraisal-Board                    18.1              41.4
Board-effectiveness                12.8              26.8
Supervision                       124.9             340.4
Completion                         21.7              69.9
TOTAL                           340.5              730.9



26                                                                                         Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                     Specialised     Implem-  Development  Types of
Stage of                  Month/           of         Days in       staff skills   entation    objectives   problems'5
project cycle                year         persons         field     represented 14     status
Through appraisal
I. Reconnaissance                February 1987       2             21             F, T
2. Preparation (FAO)             October 19878        4            35           AE, T, F
2a. Support (WB)                  October 1987        1             14              F
3. Pre-appraisal                  March 1988          5             20          T, AE, 0
4. Appraisal                       July 1988          5             22         T, AE, 0, F
Appraisal through Board approval
Board approval thru effectiveness
Supervision I                     August 1991         2             11            F, T            2           2
Supervision 2                     March 1992          1             18              F             3           3           M, F
Supervision 3                      June 1992          2             12             F, T           3           3         M, F, T
Supervision 4                     October 1992        2            21              F, T          3            3         M, F, T
Supervision 5                    February 1993        2             4             F, 0           3            3         M, F, T
Supervision 6                      Sept. 1993         2             12            T, 0           3            3         M, F, T
Supervision 7                     March 1994          2            22             T, 0           3           3            M, F
Supervision 8                      July 1994          2             13            T, 0             Mid-Term Review Mission
Supervision 9                      April 1995         2             8             T, 0           3           3            M, F
Supervision 10                    October 1995        2                           T, 0           3           3            M, F
Completion                        January 1995        2             13            AE, F                       -
14   F = Financial Analyst; T = Tree Crops Specialist; 0 = Operation Officer; AE = Agricultural Economist
15   M  = Management; F = Financial; T = Technical



Appendix A                                                                 1
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    This is the Aide Memoire of an FAO/CP mission which visited Nigeria from 5 to
16 February 1996 to assist with the preparation of the ICR for the above project. For part
of the period the mission was accompanied by Mr. D. Ilebani from the World Bank
Resident Mission in Abuja. Field visits were undertaken to the main project areas in
Abia and Akwa Ibom states and discussions were held with the management of Abiapalm
and Akwapalm who are the principal estate operators, as well as with the Nigerian
Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR) and the Tree Crops Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit (TCMEU). The latter was given the responsibility for the preparation of the
borrowers' own assessment of the project's outcome and two of its senior officers (Mr.
L.O. Ologide - Head of Unit and Dr. J. Izeke -Deputy Head) accompanied the mission
throughout its stay. The mission wishes to express its sincere gratitude for all the kind
cooperation and support received from all sides.
The Project
Introduction
2.    At the time of appraisal it was an important objective of the Bank's strategy in
Nigeria to promote supply response for commodities which Nigeria had a comparative
advantage either for import substitution or export. In this context, tree crop development
was considered to have considerable potential. Based on past Bank involvement in the
Imo and Rivers oil palm projects this project was designed to focus an oil palm
development for import substitution by: increasing processing capacities, planting high
yielding Tenera oil palm on both plantation and scattered small holdings, and through
better management. In accordance with the spirit of the Bank supported Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP) private sector involvement was to be encouraged for both
palm oil and rubber processing.
Project Objective
3.    The broad objectives of the project were to assist Nigeria to improve production
in the palm-oil and rubber sub-sectors in the short and medium terms and to facilitate
greater private sector involvement in the sub-sectors. To achieve these objectives, the
project comprised the following components:
Oil Palm Development : Planting of 9,000 ha of smallholder mono-cropping
(SMC), 35,000 ha of smallholder mixed cropping (MCS) and 8,000 ha of nucleus
estate (NES) in Imo and Akwa-Ibom states.
Processing Facilities: Construction of two 20 tons ffb/hr palm oil mills for
parastatal estates and, utilizing private sector financing: (i) construction of new palm
oil processing facilities providing a total capacity of 115 tons ffb/hr; and, (ii)



2                                                              Appendix A
construction of new rubber processing factories for a capacity of 50 tons/day and
rehabilitation of existing rubber factories for a capacity of 30 tons/day.
Oil Palm Research: Provision of material and equipment, electricity, water and
other civil works to NIFOR to support production of selected oil palm seeds
Monitoring and Evaluation of the project and relevant studies.
Technical and Management Assistance to the above.
4.    The project objectives were clear and most relevant for the development of the
subsector and the national economy as a whole. The project was appraised in February
1989, the Loan was approved by the Board on October 17, 1989, it was signed on
October 10, 1990 and became effective in July 1991, i.e. 21 months after Board approval.
The loan was closed on 31 December 1995.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project has not been very successful in achieving its objectives. Under the
NES program 3,616 ha (45%) were planted and only 339 ha (4%) smallholders mono
crop (SMC)and 6,075 ha (17%) of mixed crops smallholders (MCS) were established.
No new estate palm oil mills were constructed. However an existing 5 tons ffb/hr mill at
Abiapalm and a 1 ton fib/hr at Akwapalm were rehabilitated. Private sector investment
in oil palm milling and rubber processing was not realized. Some progress has been
made towards improving the electricity supply at NIFOR but works have not yet been
completed and the other sub-components have not been achieved. Project monitoring and
evaluation has taken place after a late start, however none of the studies envisaged had
been carried out. Technical and management assistance was provided to the estates.
6.    At appraisal total costs of the 5 year project were estimated at US$ 160 million of
which US$ 106 million were to be financed under the IBRD loan. The latter included a
line of credit (LOC) for processing sub-projects to be implemented by the private sector
amounting to US$ 50 million. The LOC was expected to be disbursed through selected
participating local banks. The increasing foreign exchange risk, the stagnating economy
and the political uncertainty, affected demand for the facility and by the end of 1993 the
LOC was canceled and the Loan Agreement amended accordingly. From the remaining
US$ 56 million, US$ 16.5 million were disbursed by end January 1996. There are,
however, still a number of outstanding withdrawal claims estimated at about US$ 2
million to be sent to the Bank for payment
7.    The project had a very slow start-up by project entities and disruption caused by
the bifurcation of Imo state into Abia and Imo states which resulted in a suspension of
works at Abiapalm for nearly three years until the conclusion of the asset-sharing
exercise. The dispute over compensation resulted in the lack of access to land for NES
development in Akwa Ibom State. Bidding for oil mills suffered from interference and
bureaucratic delays exceeding the tendering deadline. Prolonged industrial action during
1995 seriously affected NIFOR's capability to produce the required planting material



Appendix A                                                                  3
(sprouted seeds) for the sector, with a particularly adverse effect on the smaliholder and
MCS program for 1996.
8.    The Bank mounted 10 supervision mission including a mid-term review, which is
considered appropriate.  After having realized that the project did not make any
substantial progress during the first two to three years the Bank should have however,
either redesigned or closed the project as it was already then clear that it could not be
completed by the planned closing date. With the benefit of hindsight and in light of the
progress made by Akwapalm during the last semester of 1995 an extension by at least one
year, could have been justified to allow for the installation of oil mills at the two estates
(see para. 12).
9.    The performance of the Borrower was not satisfactory. The borrower has failed to
ensure access to land for Akwapalm NES expansion, has taken erratic influence on estate
management and audit report were not always provided in a timely manner. Procurement
procedures were not always followed and Abiapalm did not appoint a procurement
officer. The Borrower has also failed in removing the subsidy on planting material.
10.   In light of the poor physical achievement and serious doubts about sustainability
(see para. 12) the project outcome has to be rated as unsatisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
11.   The most important findings is that for projects which support parastatal entities a
strong political commitment to their success is necessary. This includes timely financial
contributions from both the Federal and State government, provision of well qualified
board and executive staff and non-interference in the technical aspects of the operation.
12.   As it becomes clear from the operational plans submitted by the executing
agencies, there is a commitment to continue the project, although, on a considerably
reduced scale and practically without any further substantial investments. Without the
establishment of a second oil mill by Abiapalm, the processing of bunches from the NES
and smallholders will be uneconomical due mainly to the high transportation cost and
losses in transit to the existing mill.  FFB production would also exceed existing
processing capacities once the areas planted under the project come into full production.
A worse scenario is seen for Akwapalm as no processing plant is available within a viable
distance. If no processing facilities are established, past efforts would be mostly in vain.
Under the prevailing circumstances these two main components of the project are not
sustainable. NIFOR is expected to continue its seed production program, however, long-
term sustainability can only be assured on the base of full cost recovery of seeds sales.
Assurances were obtained that TCMEU would continue to receive financing including
funds for the supervision of the MCS program. However, full cost recovery on input
sales would be necessary.



4                                                                Appendix A
13.   The major lessons to be drawn from project implementation experience are that
(a) access to land with assured user rights for NES expansion should be a loan
conditionally;
(b) projects which suffer from extended start-up delays should be either
redesigned or canceled;
(c) in cases where political circumstances (bifurcation of states, profound changes
in  government  system)  prevent  implementation,  loans  should  be
suspended/canceled;
(d) in agricultural production projects, where processing is an integral part for
achieving the expected benefits, all efforts should be made to ensure the
construction of processing facilities, taking due consideration of financial and
economic viability; and
(e) Bank procedures for procurements and disbursements should be made clear
and Borrower should adhere to them.
Follow Up
14.   Upon return to Rome, the mission will prepare the ICR including the required
statistical tables for submission to the Bank and the Borrowers by mid March. The
Borrowers has been advised by the mission on the need to prepare its own assessment to
form an integral part of the final report.
Performance Indicators
15. ABIAPALM and AKWAPALM
NES plantings (total target (ha), annual target (ha), annual achievement (ha);
SMC plantings (total target (ha), annual target (ha), annual achievement (ha);
FFB collection (in tons by month for NES and SMC and by year of planting);
Mill capacity utilization; Extraction rates for oil and kernels;
Monthly production of oil and kernels;
Financial indicators:
- cost of production of oil and kernel;
- sales revenue for oil and kernel;
- monthly production cost and sales;
- salaries, allowances, liabilities;
- operating costs/overheads;
- profit and loss accounts.
16. MCS : Nursery Development
Status of nursery (equipment, staffing, etc.);



Appendix A                                                                     5
Inputs purchased;
Germinated seeds purchased; seedlings produced and seedlings sold;
Cost of seedlings and sales price;
Operating Unit: ADP or others.
Data are to be collected for each nursery, as a basis for state reports and national summary
reports, together with a review on follow-up at farmers' level including extension, input
supply and FFB marketing/processing.
17. NIFOR
Status of infrastructure (electricity, water, laboratory facilities);
Annual demand for selected germinated seeds; production and sales;
Annual demand for seedlings; production and sales;
Cost of production for germinated seeds; sales price;
Cost of production for seedlings; sales price.



I



has been concelled by the Bank.
21. Various financial analyses indicated that the project was
unsatisfactory. (see Annex 10 - Project Financial Analysis).
22.  Objectives   such  as  institutional   and  infrastructural
development including mill installation, poverty alleviation
as indicated by low level of farmer participation and planting
were   not   fully   achieved.   Other   socio-economic   and
environmental benefits were not fully realised.
23. The estates have large land concessions and their planting
may continue well into the future. However, the success of
such planting programmes will depend largely on their ability
to generate internally, the necessary funds and this may not
be possible without the installation of modern mills.
24. The State Governments' interference in the operations of the
estates should be minimised. For meaningful future continuity
and progress, frequent changes in key management positions
should be avoided.
25. The Bank has often shown interest in the continued viability
of projects funded by it. It is therefore absolutely necessary
that the Bank should ensure the viability of the estates, the
SDU and smallholders by a follow-up action for the
installation of milling facilities.



I



MAP SECTION



I



_llrin    K  W  A  R  A                               P  L  A  T  E  A  U
Z                                                  N                                                       Makurdi
Z ii  \  >_lbadan .)Akr                                                           BE  N  U  E                         
t[co     Abeokuta
O G.U N                   _--
.                         \;< ;,) B~~~~~~~ E  N  &  E  L,                                                            4 Ji 
N I G E R I A  . .v                                          t            tC                 t    
TREE CROPS PROJECT .                                                       Owerri
- - Isohytstain,mni. mm0                                                                                                0
*  State capitals                                                                                          KL,  i TER.
Natlonal capital.    *.                               Hrourt,       - ~ O
C.                                                                                                           J*)
State boundarlea~--C:A~*-                                                                  r              n.' 
|4     R          " i';~ S ' \ GC,)nternational boundaries                                                                    .--. 
-in. _  . tb d
tb          '     w       '  '    '    '           '.'"                >                               S       ',       S       ,"___    o



I






~AIN
I MI A -TI I I(-'
R eno rt N.i:                    1 Il0ei
AType: I-.'C



