Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLFILE  Y
Report No. 7429-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PRPOJECT
FEBRUARY 28, 1989
Western Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =          Naira (N)
US$1                            N 44.67
M1 (100 Kobos)       =          US$0.21
Weights and Measures
Unless otherwise stated all weights and
measures used in this report are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)      =          2205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)            =          2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)          =          0.62 mile (m)
1 meter (m)               =          3.28 feet (ft)
1 millimeter (mm)         =          0.04 inch (in)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmFCAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP       -   Agricultural Development Project
ATAP      -   Agriculture Technical Assistance Project
CBN       -    Central Bank of Nigeria
CRR       -    CBN Rediscount Rate
CFA       -    Cooperative Financing Agencies
CIF       -    Cost Insurance Freight
CPO       -    Crude Palm Oil
EDF       -    Eu;cpean Development Fund
EIB       -    European Investment Bank
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP    -    Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FFB       -    Fresh Fruit Bunch
FDARD     -    Federal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
FEM       -    Foreign Exchange Market
FGN       -    Federal Government of Nigeria
FMAWRRD   -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Rural Development
FRR       -    Financial Rate of Return
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IRR       -    Internal Rate of Return
MANR      -   Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCS       -   Mixed Crop Smallholders
MD        -   Man Day
MEU       -    Tree Crops Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit
MSADP     -   Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
NACB      -    Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NES       -    Nucleus Estate
NIFOR     -    Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
NPPB      -    Nigerian Palm Produce Board
OCC       -    Opportunity Cost of Capital
PB        -    Participating Banks
POME      -    Palm Oil Mill Effluent
PS        -    Processing Sub-Projects
RRIN      -    Rubber Research Institute of Nigeria
SAP       -    Structural Adjustment Program
SDU       -    Smallholder Development Unit
SFEM      -    Second Tier Foreign Exchange Market
SOL;      -    Statciments of Expenditure
TCU       -    Tree Crop Unit
WPG       -   Wild Palm Groves
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                         vi
I.    INTRODUCTION .....................................                          1
II.   ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT .............................                          1
III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR....2..2 ..................                           2
A.    Main Features  Including Government
Objectives and Policies .....................                        2
B.    Tree Crops Subsector ........................                        6
C.    Institutional Environment ........... e .......                      9
D.    Project Objective,  Lessons Learned  from
Past Bank Involvement, Rationale for World
Bank Involvement and Project Formulation ...                       12
E.    The Project Area ............................                       15
IV.   THE PROJECT ......................................                         17
A.    Summary Description .........................                       17
B. Detailed Features                          .           .               18
1.    Planting Program .......................                     18
2.    Research ..........                                          ......................  19
3.    Processing Facilities ..................                     20
4.    Training and Studies ...................                     20
C.    Project Costs and Financing ..................                      21
1.    Cost Estimates ..................    .....                   21
2.    Financing Plan ..........................                    22
3.    Special Account .........................                    23
4.    Procurement .............................                    24
5.    Disbursement ............................                    26
6.    Reporting, Accounts and Audit ...........                    28



- iv -
D.   Project Implementation.......................     28
1.   Organization and Management .............    28
2.  Mixed Crop Oil Palm Smallholders ........    29
Program
3.  Monocrop Oil Palm Smallholders Program..    29
4.   Nucleus Estate ...... ...................    30
5.   NIFOR ...................................    31
6.   PS Financing ............................    31
7.  Implementation Plan .....................    35
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND PROFITABILITY .....    35
1.   Production: Technical Aspects ................ oD
2.   Production: Yields and Incremental Output ....    36
3.  Markets and Prices ...........................    36
4.   Profitability ................                    37
5.   Project Benefits and Risks ...................    39
6.  Environme: .l Effects ........................    40
VI. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........   40
ANNEXES
1.  Key Features of the Agricultural Sector
2.
3.  Oil Palm and Rubber - Public Estate Sector
4-1  Planting Program
4-2  Private Sector Processing Sub-Projects Financed
through Commercial and Merchant Banks
4-3  Scope of Studies on Oil Palm Mixed Cropping Systems
4-4  Summary of Project Costs
4-5  Special Account Procedures
4-6  Disbursement Schedule
4-7  Project Organization Chart
4-8  Selection of Participating Banks
4-9  Implementati)n Schedule
5-1  Palm Oil ana Kernel Production from Project Plantings
5-2  Palm Oil Production and Demand Projections
5-3  Adapalm (Nigeria) Limited and Akwapalm Industries Limited
5-4  Economic and Financial Analyses - Oil Palm
Planting Program and Mills; Crop Budgets: SDU, MCS
MAPS
IBRD No. 21061
IBRD No. 21062



v 
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Working Papers
1.   Financing of Private Sector Processing Sub-Projects
2.   Project Costs: Financial and Economic
- Ukwa Nucleus Estate
- Ukwa Mill
- Ukwa Smallholder Development Unit
- Ekor Nucleus Estate
- Ekor Mill
- Ekor Smallhokder Development Unit
- Mixed Crops smallholders
- Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
- Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
- Processing Sub-Projects
3.   Oil Palm Fruits, Palm Oil and Palm Kernel Production Estimates
B.   Other Supporting Documents
1.   FAO/CP - Tree Crops (Phase II) Project Preparation Report
2.   SOCFINCO - Adapalm (Nigeria) Limited, Second Phase Development
Programme Feasibility Study
3.  SOCFINCO - Integrated Agricultural Development Project, Oil Palm
- Akwa Ibom State
4.   SOCFINCO - Lome III Oil Palm Belt Development Programme Final
Report
5.   SOCFINCO - Feasibility Study for a Credit Line for Oil Palm and
Rubber Projects in Nigeria
6.   ISNAR - Review of the Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
(Draft, May 1988)
7.   IBRD - Agricultural Sector Memorandum No. 4723-UNI
------------------------------------
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal team consisting
of S. Singh, C. Carlier, I. Tsakok (Bank); R. Cillien, R. Long
(consultants); R. Kri3hnan contributed to the report and checked the
figures; J. Molina provided secretarial support and M. Kail operations
assistance.



- vi -
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:            Federal Republic of Nigeria; Ogun, Benue, Bendel,
Anambra, Imo, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Oyo, Ondo
and Rivers States; FDARD/MEU; Adapalm Nigeria
Ltd.; Akwapalm Industries Ltd.; participating
banks.
Amount:                   US$106.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    Payable over 22 years, including seven years of
grace, at standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:          The Federal Government would onlend US$50 million
to participating banks either in US dollars or
Naira depending on the option taken by
end-borrowers with interest being at the IBRD rate
plus 1.252 for US dcllar loans and the CBN
Rediscount Rate for Naira loans. The onlending
rates to the beneficiaries would be determined by
the banks. Duration of loans would be a maximum
of 12 years with a grace period of up to 3 years.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
end-borrower fo, US dollar loans and by FGN for
Naira-denominated loans. FGN would also onlend
US$31.3 million to Imo State and US$20.6 million
to Akwa Ibom State on the same terms and
conditions as the IBRD loan. Imo and Akwa Ibom
States would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:      The main objective of the project is to help
Nigeria improve production and productivity in
palm oil and rubber. The project would assist (i)
the state governments to supply seedlings and
extension advice to mixed crop smallholders to
plant 17,500 hectares of oil palm; (ii) Adapalm
Ltd. and Akwapalm Ltd. to piant oil palm on 17,000
ha (nucleus estate and smallholder) and to build
two 20 ton/hr mills; (iii) private sector and
public sector investors with suitable
privatization plans, to create and rehabilitate
processing capacity in palm oil and tubber; (iv)
NIFOR to improve its oil palm seed production; and



- vii -
(v) FDARD/MEU, Adapalm, Akwapalm, and
participating banks to improve technical
expertise, managerial and supervisory skills
needed to complement physical investments.



- viii -
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign   Total
....... (US$ Million).
Oil Palm Nucleus Estate Development      13.4       21.1      34.5
Palm Oil Nucleus Mills                    5.9       16.1      22.0
Oil Palm Smallholder Development          8.2        4.1      12.3
Project Coordination and Monitoring       1.3        1.-       2.6
Oil Palm Research and Seed Production    0.9         1.1        1.9
Private Sector Processing Subprojects   17.2        50.6      67.8
Total Base Costs                    46.9       94.2     141.1
Physical Contingencies                    1.8        2.0       3.8
Price Contingencies                       6.3        8.8      15.1
Total Project Costs 1/              55.0      105.0     160.0
Financing Plan:
Oil Palm Development:
IBRD                                    6.4       49.6      56.0
Federal Government                      1.7                  1.7
State Governments                       1.4                  1.4
Adapalm Ltd.                            8.5                  8.5
Akwapalm Ltd.                           9.2                  9.2
Farmers                                 8.2                  8.2
35.4      49.6      85.0
Processing Subprojects:
IBRD                                              50.0      50.0
Banks/Private Investors                19.6        5.4      25.0
55.0     105.0     160.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year:   FY90       FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94       FY95
...................... .US$ Million.
Annual             1.7       15.9      14.8       29.4      38.0        6.2
Cumulative        1.7        17.6      32.4       61.8      99.3      106.0
1/ Of which US$18.7 million is taxes and duties.



- ix -
Project Benefits
and Risks:                The project would help increase annual production
of palm oil by 100,000 tons and processed rubber
by 20,000 tons and reduce costs of production. It
would also help promote private sector investment
in the sector both in smallholder plantings and in
processing mills. Palm oil is a basic consumption
item and the increased production will help
alleviate the significant domestic shortage.
Rubber is an important agricultural export and the
increased exports will help alleviate the severe
foreign exchange shortage. In the short to medium
term, most of the increased palm oil will come
from the fruits of wild palm groves, which are now
wasted due to lack of modern processing capacity.
Similarly, the existing rubber trees would be
exploited to produce a higher quantity and quality
of rubber, due to improved processing capacity.
The investment in more efficient processing
methods will reduce costs for both palm oil and
rubber. In the longer Lerm, there will be
increased supply of oil palm fruits from project
plantings of high-yielding Tenera palms. The
risks are primarlly of a macro nature.
Specifically, a reversal in the current favorable
trade and incentive framework and the tightening
of domestic credit could undermine both investment
incentives and access to affordable credit through
lower producer prices and higher interest rates.
Finally, the sustainability of good management of
public investments beyond the project period,
cannot be assured. However, the project is
sufficiently robust and remains viable even with a
50 percent increase in costs or a three-year delay
in benefits.
Economic Rate of Return (Percent):
Overall project investment in
new plantings and the Ukwa
and Ekor mills                       21
Private sector investments in        18-60
processing subprojects
Maps: IBRD 21061
IBRD 21062



NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In late 1984, the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) expressed
its interest in developing the oil palm subsector. In 1985 and 1986, the,
Bank identified and prepared a subsector support project. In late 1986,
however, the Bank decided to enlarge the scope of its inquiry to include
other tree crops. In early 1987, a World Bank mission concluded that the
tree crops sub-sector had an important roie to play both as a saver and as
an earner of foreign exchange and that the incentive and trade framework
was favorable to investment in the subsector. Agreement was reached with
the Government that Bank assistance to the cocoa subsector, which is almost
exclusively a smallholder activity, should be included in the proposed
Multi-State Agricultural Development Project III (MSADP III). In addition,
states included in the ongoing "SADP I (Loan no. 2733-UNI) could extend
financing to cocoa if they so decided. Agreement was also reached that the
proposed project, initially named Palm Oil V, should be enlarged to include
financing for the short term needs in rubber processing. A full-scale
review of the rubber subsector to identify promising interventions for
medium- to long-term development is being undertaken separately.  In
October 1987, a FAO/CP mission prepared this project.
1.02      Th., project is designed to assist in meeting shorte:-term needs
for increasing processing capacity in both palm oil and rubber, medium-term
needs for rehabilitation, and longer-term needs for planting higher-
yielding oil palm. It also seeks to increase private sector involvement in
a sector that is currently still dominated by public sector ownership and
management, despite the abolition of the Commodity Boards. The project is
a response to both the growth opportunities and the transitional con-
straints created by the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), in particular
through the devaluation of the naira, the liberalization of interest rates
and the promotion of private sector investment.
II. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
2.01      The SAP, initiated in July 1986, is a far-reaching program
combining exchange rate and trade policy reforms with macroeconomic
restraints. Its impact on the economy has been mixed. The export sector
has benefitted. Output, employment and investment in the sector have
increased. There has been a renewed interest in tree crops, as export
prices in naira terms for cocoa and rubber have risen significantly. In
the case of palm oil, which is an import substitute, domestic prices had
already begun to reflect the scarcity premium for foreign exchange and the
difficulties of obtaining import licenses by 1984 (see para. 5.04). In the
import substituting sector, manufacturing industries with lower import
content (less than 50 percent of total cost) are doing well. Incentives
are clearly to increase domestic sourcing. In other lines of manufactur-
ing, however, assembly-type operations in consumer durables, which typical-
ly generate low value added, have suffered. In addition, there has been a



- 2 -
significant loss of consumer demand mainly among middle and upper middle
class households. Unemployment remains a serious problem and real wages,
especially in urban areas, have fallen.
2.02      With agricultural growth performance being weather.-dependent and
with petroleum accounting for 13 percent of total GDP and 97 percent of
export earnings (1986), exogenous factors will continue to play a major
role in shaping Nigeria i economic prospects in the short term. In 1986,
weather was favorable, so agricultural GDP grew by 9.3 percent. Staple
food crops increased by 9.8 percent. Non-oil GDP is estimated to have
grown by 3.2 percent, and real GDP by 2.5 percent. By contrast, in 1987
there wTas drought, and real GDP is estimated to have fallen by 5.3 percent.
With the halving of oil prices in early 1986 and the sharp depreciation of
the naira, real per capita income fell dramatically. Using the World Bank
Atlas Methodology for averaging, the real per capita income is estimated at
US$800 in 1985, at US$370 in 1987, and about US$280 in 1988 and US$235 in
1989.
2.03      Nigeria's economic prospects are dependent on exogenous factors
and the Government's continued ability to implement the fundamental reforms
called for in the SAP. However, with Nigeria's high rate of population
increase, GDP (including the oil sector) will have to grow by 4 percent per
annum, just to keep per capita consumption from falling. Such a growth
rate appears feasible only under certain key assumptions. These are that
(i) the Government implements the SAP in a timely fashion; (ii) inter-
national creditors continue to support the program; (iii) agriculture grows
at roughly 3.5 percent p.a. over the next five year period; and (iv)
current prospects (1988-1990) with respect to prices and export volumes in
the oil market materialize.
III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Main Features Including Government Objectives and Policies
3.01      The Improved Incentive Environment for Agriculture.  Agriculture
was the key sector before the oil boom in the seventies, accounting for 50
percent of GDP and 45 percent of exports. The surge in oil export revenues
in the seventies, its dramatic decline since the early eighties, and the
accompanying trade and exchange regimes adopted have had far-reaching
consequences for agriculture. The sharp overvaluation of the naira that
accompanied the boom both encouraged cheap imports of food and discouraged
exports, to the detriment of agriculture's growth. Agriculture imports
increased by over 1000 percent during the seventies, while exports fel' by
46 percent in the same decade. The boom also increased rural urban migra-
tion, raising rural wages, and this in turn contributed to agriculture's
cost price squeeze. Agriculture's contribution to GDP fell to 27 percent,
and to total export earnings, to 2.4 percent by 1986. However, despite
this dramatic decline in its relative contribution to the national economy,
agriculture still accounts for 68 percent of employment, for virtually all
non-oil exports and domestic food supply. With the sharp drop in oil



- 3 -
export earnings from US$25 billion in 1980 to around US$6-7 billion in
1986-87, Government's decision to devalue the naira in 1986 and to impose
import bans on a wide range of agricultural commodities, the incentive
environment for agriculture has improved significantly.
3.02      Despite this improvement, there is concern among investors as to
whether this positive environment will continue. Since independence in
1960, trade policy signals affecting agriculture in general and exports in
particular, vacillated primarily in response to balance of payments and
national crises. Periods of stringency -- high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions (including for exports) -- alternated with brief periods of
relaxation -- lower tariffs and removal of quantitative restrictions.
During the civil war, 1965-1970, and well into 1973, tariff levels reached
50-75 percent, and bans were widespread. These restrictions were relaxed
during the plentiful years of the oil boom, only to reappear again in 1981.
Explicit export taxes averaged 10 percent ad valorem until 1972, increased
to 15 percent in 1972, and were abolished in 1974. Then again in 1978, in
1981 and in 1986, export and import bans (for grounduuts and groundnut oil,
palm oil, milk, sugar, flour, maize, rice, etc.) reappeared and their scope
widened. Despite the ban, the 1988 tariff schedule sets out a 30 percent
tariff rate for crude palm oil (CPO) declining to 25 percent by 1994; for
other vegetable oils, the rate is 20 percent rising to 25 by 1994.
Therefore, it is somewhat unclear whether the vegetable oils ban is to stay
for a while, or whether tariffs are to be used instead. Although bans or
tariffs are not necessary for domestic palm oil to be competitive as an
import substitute (provided the exchange rate is realistic), this
vacillation is a major concern to investors in tree crops, given the high
initial investments and the long gestation periods involved.
3.03      Sector Characteristics.  Nigeria's agriculture is as diverse as
its ecology. Its large land area, estimated at about 923,800 sq. km.,
stretches from 3,500 mm p.a. rainfall belts in the south to less than 600
mm in the far north. In the southern states, the main food crops are
cassava and yams, and the traditional cash crops are the perennials, cocoa,
oil palm and rubber. In the northern and central states, the main food
crops are sorghum, millet, maize and cowpeas; the main cash crops are
cotton and groundnuts. In percentage terms, the agr cultural GDP consists
of: staples 52, other crops 15, livestock 14, fish 8 and forestry 11.
Agriculture is primarily rainfed, with less than 0.01 percent of total
cropped area covered by assured irrigation. To reduce the risks of crop
failure due to variable rainfall, most farmers intercrop. There is a great
variety of crop mixtures, depending on ecological and market factors.
Production is mainly by smallholders, cultivating less than 5 hectares,
using traditional manual technology of the bush/fallow system. Although
there is no general land shortage, there are areas in the north and in the
south where increasing population pressure is forcing a reduction in the
traditional fallow period to 2-3 years, which has decreasei soil fertility
and increased use of fertilizer.
3.04      Performance.  Largely due to negative incentives and low budget-
ary allocations to agriculture, growth of output and productivity for both



imiport substitutes and exports has been poor. Output growth between 1970-
1980 is estimated at 1.7 percent p.a., and between 1980-1985 at 1 percent
p.a. Although there are data problems with these estimates, the conclusion
of poor performance remains. Output performance is highly dependent on the
timeliness of rains, as exemplified in the severe drought of 1983-1984
followed by the rebound in 1985-1986 and the drought of 1987. Along with
favorable weather in 1985-1986, there was some improvement in the timely
availability of inputs, better supply services and better incentives for
export crops. In particular, producer prices for cocoa increased by 67.3
percent in 1986 and for rubber by 154.5 percent. According to CBN sources,
agricultural GDP increased by 3.8 percent in 1985, by 9.3 in 1986, but it
fell by 8.0 percent in 1987.
3.05      Constraints.  The SAP adopted in 1986 removed a key macro con-
straint inhibiting incentives, namely the overvaluation of the naira.
However, the liberalization of the exchange rate, of the trade regime (to a
lesser extent) and of interest rates also has generated transitional
problems for agriculture. Prices of imported inputs have soared and
interest rates have risen as ceilings have been eliminated. These increase
the cost of agricultural investments, particularly those with significant
import content. Investments in mills and in plantations have high import
content and investors are reluctant to assume the foreign exchange risk.
In addition, as a result of past policy neglect, agriculture faces a host
of serious structural constraints. These include (i) lack of technological
packages for many annual crops that are financially attractive, (ii) poor
marketing and information systems, (iii) weaknesses in national research
and extension systems, (iv) low productivity and ineffective management of
public investment in agriculture, (v) limited access of smallholders to
institutional credit and (vi) poorly developed basic public services.
3.06      Government Objectives and Policies.  The Government is well aware
of these constraints and the enormous challenge that the sector faces.
Agricultural growth has to rise well above its 1 to 2 percent p.a. of past
decades to feed a population rising at its current 3.4 percent p.a. and to
provide employment to about 80 million (30 million more than in 1985) by
the year 2000, assuming 68 percent of the labor force remains engaged in
agriculture. In its statement of Agricultural Polic (January 1987), the
Government plans to meet these growing demands through the achievement of
the following: (i) self-sufficiency in basic foods; (ii) increased supply
of raw materials to domestic industry; (iii) growth in export earnings;
(iv) creation of employment opportunities; (v) modernization of
technologies in processing, storage and marketing; (vi) protection against
environmental degradation; and (vii) improvement in the basic amenities
available in rural areas. Specifically, recent policy measures have
included the imposition of bans on a wide range of agricultural commodities
to promote self-sufficiency; the abolition of all Commodity Boards and the
deregulation of all agricultural prices to improve incentives for exports
in particular, and for private sector activity in general. in line with
the privatization policy of the SAP, the Government has stated its inten-
tion to withdraw from direct investment in production or limit its equity
participation in a state enterprise to a small percentage, namely not more



- 5 -
than 25 percent. The Government views its agricultural policy as being
evolutionary, and expects it to be modified in the light of experience.
3.07      Following the publication of the policy document, the Bank and
the FMAWRRD have been engaged in an intensive and fruitful sector dialogue
over the past year, beginning with a discussion in June 1987 on the Bank's
"Nigeria Agricultural Sector Review" (Report No. 4723-UNI). The sector
dialogue is being improved through periodic sector consultations, during
which the Bank and the FMG have agreed on a policy framework and operating
strategy to underpin the Bank's sector assistance to Nigeria. The first
such meeting was held in October 1987 in Washington, with a follow-up in
Lagos in November 1987. During these meetings, a broad consensus was
reached on important policy, strategy, and institutional issues relating to
Bank support to agriculture in Nigeria. In particular, there is increased
recognition for the dominant role of macro, exchange rate, and trade
policies on agricultural policy and performance followed by actions to
build institutional capacity to strengthen agricultural services.
3.08      The most important elements of the emerging agreement on the
policy framework in summary are: (i) FMG believes that while there would be
room for expanding large-scale agricultural production, the bulk of
incremental agricultural production would originate from smallholders; it
considers ADPs to be an effective implementation system for providing
agricultural services for increasing agricultural production and incomes,
and for implementing its rural development strategy; it nevertheless
recognizes that the ADPs, as designed in the past, were too expensive to
implement and sustain, and the design of future ADPs would incorporate more
cost-effective ways of meeting program objectives besides enabling the
projects to respond to new opportunities and priorities and benefit from
implementation experience; (ii) an agreement between the Bank, FMG, and the
states to have a comprehensive review over a period of time of the
institutional structure providing agricultural services to farmers will
begin with MSADP II states and gradually extend to the states over the next
few years; the objective being to develop state institutions/systems which
are efficient, flexible, responsive and sustainable; (iii) the Government
has confirmed its commitment to reduce and ultimately eliminate the
fertilizer subsidy, with the pace of the removal tak ng into account the
effect on maintenance of soil fertility, income distribution effects,
efficiency of fertilizer use, and the effect on the Federal budget; (iv)
privatization of input supply is consistent with the Government's long-term
policy and institutional and development objectives, and existing
state-owned ADP farmers' agricultural supply companies (FASCOMs) are viewed
as interim arrangements, especially needed in those states where the
private sector is weak or initially disinterested in the input supply
business; present and future ADPs would support the development of an
active private sector role (including cooperatives) in input supply,
starting at the retail level, with the states playing only a regulatory,
promotional, or complementary role; (v) access to credit is generally more
important to farmers than the interest rate payable on agricilltural loans
per se; credit (and especially subsidized credit) is not an appropriate
remedy for correcting the negative effects of an unfavorable price policy;



- 6 -
mobilization of rural savings is a prerequisite for the creation of a
sustainable rural finance system, and it is Government's policy to withdraw
from the direct involvement of state ministries in credit operations; (vi)
FMG confirmed its policy which eschews any role for the Government or its
agencies in the direct marketing of agricultural produce, except under
compelling circumstances and for public policy reasons; the successful
implementation of its marketing policies, however, depends partly on the
extent to which the FMG would be able to identify and correct undesirable
consequences, within the overail framework of such policies: increased
attention and priority would be given in future projects to the development
of an adequate supporting rural marketing infrastructure to facilitate:
timely evacuation and movement of produce; gathering and dissemination of
information on markets, quality and prices; agricultural trading, by
providing conveniently located, scheduled, and sanitary physical
facilities; and standardization by inspection and grading; (vii) the
Government confirmed its policy and strategy for achieving food security
for Nigeria in the medium term; FMG will maintain a small (about 250,000 t)
strategic grain reserve to cater for national food emergencies and for
occasional food aid to needy countries while state governments would
maintain minimum essential buffer stocks to stabilize prices and markets
over space and time; rll interventions would be through private traders and
licensed agents, with farmers and private entrepreneurs being encouraged
(through credit) to maintain on-farm and commercial storage for their food
and trading requirements as the backbone of the Government's food security
program; (viii) FMG has agreed that priority should be given to providing
for maintenance of existing rural roads over new construction; (ix) in
support of the policy to improve agricultural labor productivity, priority
would be given to sustaining the current high standards of maintenance of
rural water supplies over new construction, but without restricting the
latter; and (x) the potential for irrigation to contribute to agricultural
development in Nigeria, especially in the drought-prone northern states, is
recognized by the FMG and the Bank, and the Bank's successful experience
with supporting small-scale irrigation on flood plains (known as "fadamas")
should be expanded to enable Nigeria to exploit its full potential.
B.   Tree Crops Subsector
3.09      General.  The tree crops subsector consisting of oil palm, rubber
and cocoa extends in a continuous belt from southwestern through to
southeastern Nigeria, from Ogun and Ondo to Cross River and Gongola. It
lies between the 1,500 to 3,500 mm rainfall isohyets. For rubber and
cocoa, Nigeria has a comparative advantage in their export; for palm oil,
only as an import substitute. Before the civil war and the oil boom, these
crops were important earners of foreign exchange. Since then, they have
entered into a prolonged period of decline. This decline is most evident
in the low level of husbandry applied, even on the estates; the obsoles-
cence and reduced effectiveness of much existing processing capacity; and
the very poor data base to guide the formulation of policies and programs.
Given both their importance in the sixties and their decline since the
seventies, there is significant potential in the eighties and beyond for



reviving these commodities. This section deals with oil palm and rubber;
cocoa is not considered, since it is not being financed by this project.
3.10      Oil Palm.  Although soils, rainfall, temperature and sunshine
hours are generally favorable to oil palm, there are deficiencies which
lead to lower potential yields compared to those of Southeast Asia. Dura
oil palm grows wild in much of southern Nigeria. Wild palm groves (WPG)
contribute 90 percent of total palm oil processed. In the southern states,
soils are generally low in nutrients and potassium deficiency is common.
Potassium is important for oil palm fruiting. The rainfall pattern is
monsoonal, with the dry season lasting from two months in the extreme south
to five months in the more northern areas of these southern states. The
oil palm belt thus experiences water deficits in the range of 200-400 mm,
which is translated into a maximum potential yield of 16 and 10 tons FFB/ha
respectively for the better soil types. These maxima compare with yields
above 25 tons per ha in Malaysia, where rainfall is more evenly distributed
and soils have higher clay content. Average sunshine hours are also rather
low, between 2-4 hours during the wettest seasons, and under 5 during the
drier seasons. These low averages delay fruit ripening and reduce oil
content. Other than the soil deficiencies which can to some extent be
counteracted by fertilizer applications, the other natural constraints mean
that even undei the best of husbandry practices, Nigeria cannot compete
with Southeast Asia as an exporter of palm oil.
3.11      Poor Management.  In general, husbandry practices are not the
best.  Of the 70,000 hectares of Government oil palm plantations of high
yielding Tenera, an estimated 44,000 are poorly managed. These plantations
are infested by noxious weeds, specially the Eupatorium odoratum, which
seriously compete with the oil palm for soil nutrients. Yields average 6-7
tons FFB/ha for these plantations instead of their potential 12-14.
Low-level husbandry also prevails for the smallholdings. Based on the
number of seedlings sold, 90,000 hectares are estimated to be under small-
holdings.  Typically, smallholders intercrop with cassava well into the
fourth year, severely prune the fronds, and use little fertilizer. Inter-
cropping with food crops prevents the spread of noxious weeds, but these
practices reduce yields significantly. An estimated 2.1 million hectares
of WPG of Dura do not require any husbandry and farr rs harvest only when
the prices are attractive (see para. 5.10). Increased population pressure
and the resulting emphasis on food production, have reduced wild palm
densities as farmers severely prune palms under the slash and burn system.
3.12      Several constraints have contributed to this low level of hus-
bandry in particular, and the low productivity of the palm oil subsector in
general.  The main ones include the following:
(a)  The negative macro and trade framework prevailing before the SAP
(see para. 3.01).
(b)  The setting-up of national commodity boards for tree crops in
1977, with monopoly purchasing and export rights. The Nigerian
Palm Produce Board (NPPB) (1977-1986) was one of the three



- 8 -
established. The NPPB offered prices which were based on pre-
vailing world prices, but still were unattractive to producers
given the overvalued naira, and the high costs of labor, the
latter largely as a result of the labor pull to the oil sector.
By the mid-1980s, domestic prices were actually subsidized,
contributing to severe budgetary problems of NPPB. Still, the
incentive problems persisted.
(c)  The severe shortage of processing capacity, which itself resulted
from poor producer incentives. The need for additional process-
ing capacity was estimated at 390 tons FFB/hr in 1984, which
implies at least 1 million ton of FFB was not harvested, due to
the shortage of processing.
(d)  The long gestation of oil palm investments is itself a con-
straint, since it makes the subsector extremely vulnerable to the
negative A~nd unstable incentive framework that prevailed before
the SAP.
(e)  Finally, a recurrent constraint is the managerial and budgetary
problems of many public institutions, including state Ministries
of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR), the Nigerian Insti-
tute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR), and publicly-owned planta-
tions. For MANR and NIFOR, these problems undermine the supply
and quality of seedlings and of other inputs (including exten-
sion), (see paras. 3.18-3.20).
3.13      Recent Improvement in Incentives for Rubber.  Since natural
conditions are excellent for cultivating rubber, incentives have been the
main determinant in the aggregate level of rubber production. The level
declined from a high point of 78,000 tons or 3.2 percent of world produc-
tion in 1974 to an average of 50,000 tons p.a. in the early eighties.
During the same period, exports dwindled from 60,000 to 30,000 tons. As in
the case of oil palm, the disincentives were the overvalued naira, the high
labor costs (labor costs are the major cost component) and the low
administered prices of the Nigerian Rubber Board (1977-1986). This nega-
tive impact prevailed despite the input subsidies s3 ce 1977 and the output
price subsidies since 1980. In early 1986, the producer price was 163
percent above the f.o.b. price, but only 40 percent of the f.o.b. if the
devalued exchange rate is applied. Overnight, the devaluation reversed
incentives. After the devaluation, producer price rose by 154.5 percent.
3.14      Factors Contributing to Low Yields.  Again, as in the case of oil
palm, the level of husbandry and the rate of exploitation are low. For a
start, 80 percent of the trees are at least 20 years old, well past their
peak production and their remaining bark is limited. On most small-
holdings, estimated at 150,000-190,000 hectares, unselected materials have
been used. Average yields are .4 ton/ha on those being tapped. Small-
holder yields are above .8 ton/ha in Malaysia. In Bendel state which has
93 percent of Nigeria's smallholdings, extensive areas have been either
totally abandoned, damaged by fire or neglected for a long time. The rate



- 9 -
of exploitation is somewhat better on medium and large estates, estimated
at 65,000 ha or a quarter of total rubber hectarage, but it is also low. A
survey of 5 estates in Bendel, Ogun and Ondo shows that the rate of
exploitation ranges between 40 to 100 percent. Yields can be as high as 1
to 1.2 tons/ha on the better-managed estates (in Malaysia, the levels are
1.5 - 1.8 t/ha) but on the majority of estates which have been neglected,
yields have fallen to around .6 to .7 t/ha.
3.15      Shortage of Effective Processing Capacity.  With the current
revival in rubber tapping, there is a shortage of effective processing
capacity in certain locations. On many estates, existing milling capacity
needs to be rehabilitated. The factories were improperly designed, and are
run down. Unlike the situation in the palm oil subsector, existing global
processing capacity, estimated at a nominal 27 tons per hour, would appear
to be sufficient for an annual throughput of around 100,000 tons; current
production is only 50,000 tons. However, since the factories are run down
and ill-designed, nominal is far above effective capacity.
3.16      Low Quality of Processed Nigerian Rubber.  The low quality of
much of processed Nigerian rubber is a consequence of the long period of
inadequate incentives and poorly maintained plantations and mills. Pro-
cessed rubber consists of: 50 percent crumb or block, 40 percent crepe,
including 2 percent latex concentrate and 10 percent sheet. 80 percent of
the crumb output is in lower-priced grades of TSR or SMR 10 and 20 derived
essentially from cup luap and coagulum. Nigeria mainly exports lower
grades of crumb, crepe and sheet; there is thus significant scope for
increasing foreign exchange earnings by improving quality.
3.17      While lack of effective processing capacity is the main con-
straint in the short run for improving quantity and quality of output, over
the longer term a comprehensive program of rehabilitation and replanting is
required to revitalize the subsector. Such a program is being developed in
a study being financed under the Agriculture Technical Assistance Project
(ATAP).
C.   Institutional Environment
3.18      General.  Decision-makers in the oil palm and rubber subsectors
can be conveniently divided into (i) the estate sector, namely estates and
mills which are entirely publicly owned and managed; those with varying
degrees of joint public/private ownership and management; and outgrowers
attached to a nucleus estate or plantation; (ii) privately-owned
plantations and mills specially in rubber; and (iii) the smallholder
sector, namely scattered smallholders who practice inter-cropping of food
and oil palm. On a day-to-day basis, the Federal and State Ministries of
Agriculture, the Agricultural Development Projects, and the Tree Crop Units
deal mainly with scattered smallholders, in terms of the delivery of
extension services and of selected inputs. NIFOR supplies sprouted oil
palm seeds to state-run and plantation nurseries, which in turn supply
seedlings to smallholders and plantations. The Rubber Research Institute
of Nigeria (RRIN), because of a very limited budget, has no meaningful role



- 10 -
except for a very small planting material supply program. The Federal and
State governments directly affect the operations of the plantation sector
mainly through its policies on public ownership, control and management; on
financial support to the companies; and on private participation. Finally,
the Federal Government affects the sector though its financial policies and
the operations of the formal banking institutions in agriculture.
3.19      The Federal and State Apparatus.  Nigeria   constitution makes
the states responsible for agricultural development, although in practice
the Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water
Resources and Rural Development (FMA'iRRD) has a major role by establishing
overall sectoral policies and by funding specific programs. One of its
four departments, the Federal Department of Agriculture and Rural
Develoment (FDARD), has a Tree Crops Division which formulates programs and
oversees the implementation of tree crop development. The Tree Crops
Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU), within the
FDARD structure, monitors the financial and technical performance of tree
crop projects, evaluates their economic and social impact and assists in
the planning and start up of new projects. FDARD also sponsors a large
program of Agricultural Development Projects (PDP), which has received
roughly US$1 billion in support from the World Bank. The ADPs, which are
semi-autonomous management units, concentrate their resources on improving
key agricultural services and infrastructure, to support the development of
smallholder agriculture. To date, these services are focussed on food
crops; therefore they have excluded tree crops. The state MANRs also
oversee and execute agricultural development programs, including services
for tree crops, handled by their Tree Crop Units (TCUs). Relative to the
ADPs, they are disadvantaged due to inadequate funding. A chronic problem
is that their large and poorly motivated staff lack mobility and operating
funds. MANRs have also lost some of their best staff to ADPs which can
offer more attractive working conditions. Since there is both competition
and duplication between ADPs and MANRs, the current policy is to unify
extension under the ADP structure. The modalities of unifying extension
and other services are being addressed within a broad Review of
Agricultural Institutions, in the context of the Multi-State Agricultural
Development Project II (1988).
3.20      NIFOR.  NIFOR, which was established in 1939, and is under the
supervision of the Ministry of Science and Technology, is severely hampered
in effectively carrying out its support for oil palm and other tree crop
development. It is responsible for assisting in the development of oil
palm, coconut, rafia, date and ornamental palm. Its mandate is to
undertake research into and to (i) provide planting materials and tech-
niques suited to varied soils, climatic conditions and farming systems in
Nigeria; (ii) develop for dissemination to extension agents and farmers
methods of husbandry that result in early fruition and sustained high
yields; and (iii) develop low-cost technologies for processing palm fruit
which ensure high extraction rates of good quality palm oil. One of its
most important functions is to produce sprouted seeds, of good quality and
in adequate quantities, to supply state and plantation nurseries. Current-
ly, NIFOR has the potential of producing 7,000,000 good quality Tenera oil



- 11 -
palm seeds; but is hampered in doing so effectively because of various
inadequacies in its equipment and utilities. Like many other Government
institutions, NIFOR suffers from serious budgetary problems which
contribute to low staff morale and managerial inadequacies.
3.21      The Estate Sector.  Relative to oil palm, private sector is more
important in rubber; however, in both, public sector is prominent, and in
both, poor management is a key constraint. About 25 percent (65,000 ha) of
total rubber hectarage is under estates, and of this, 60 percent (36,000
ha) is under private sector. Public sector is dominant in the large (1,000
ha and above) estates and Michelin and Pamol are the main private sector
companies in this group. The oil palm estate subsector, mainly consisting
of 70,000 hectares of Tenera distributed over nine southern states, is
publicly owned and except for Adapalm Nigeria Limited (which is a component
of this project), is also publicly managed. If these estates were better
managed, they could make a significant contribution to total supply. Most
rubber estates are run down (see para. 3.14). The potential of a
well-managed Tenera hectare is 12-14 tons fresh fruit bunch (FFB); there-
fore the potential contribution is 840,000 to 980,000 tons FFB. Assuming
an oil extraction rate of 20 percent, the potential contribution of these
Tenera plantations is 168,000 to 196,000 tons of oil. Assuming a kernel
extraction rate of 4 percent, their potential contribution is 33,600 to
39,200 tons of kernel. To date, only Adapalm in Imo State and Risonpalm in
Rivers State can expect to reach 14 tons FFB/ha.   Improved management and
rehabilitation of the estate sector on a sustained basis will require
fundamental institutional reforms; in the interim, these management skills
can be purchased on a short- to medium-term basis (see Annex 3).
3.22      Privatization Issues in the Tree Crop Subsector.  The Government,
in consultation with the Bank, is in the process of preparing detailed pro-
grams to implement its policy of parastatal reform and of privatization.
The main objective is increased efficiency. A host of issues will need to
be addressed; the major ones affecting the tree crop subsector being ethnic
and regional balance in the management structure consistent with the
required skill mix; private sector participation in the equity base and in
management contracts; criteria for determining Government support and
involvement consistent with improved financial disC4pline, accountability
and autonomy; legal and financial relationships between Federal and State
governments; and the scope and limits of foreign investment. Flexibility
and not rigidity in the application of these criteria, particularly those
pertaining to equity distribution, would determine the success rate of the
privatization efforts.
3.23      Institutional Credit.  Access by smallholders to institutional
credit remains a problem, despite efforts at direct allocation. For a long
time, banks have had a limited interest in lending to agriculture, which
resulted in the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) imposing credit allocation
targets for rural areas and for agriculture during the seventies. Commer-
cial Banks (CB) are the major source of institutional credit to agricul-
ture, yet their loans and advances to the sector accounted for less than 12
percent of their total in 1986. This level is to be compared to the



- 12 -
prescribed target of 15 percent for the sector and to the 49 percent lent
to industrial enterprises. The Merchant Banks (MB) were to lend 10 percent
of their portfolio to agriculture, but they too fell short by 3 percent of
this requirement. The Nigerian Agricultural and Coopetative Bank (NACB) is
the specialized bank for lending to agriculture and agro-allied industries.
The NACB lends to individuals and groups either directly or indirectly
through state ministries and Cooperative Financing Agencies (CFA). Its
interest rate charges do not cover the costs of smallholder credit. Within
agriculture, less than 2 percent was lent to small farmers (loans not
exceeding N5,000). Lack of collateral and of guarantees in rural areas;
fixed interest rates which do not reflect the higher risks of lending as
evidenced by the low recovery rates, contribute to this limited exposure to
agriculture in general and to smallholders in particular. Within this
small sectoral total, loans to the tree crop subsector have also been
insignificant. The main constraints are: (i) the long gestation before
positive return can be expected; (ii) the unfavorable incentive environment
before the SFEM was established (September, 1986) and before the abolition
of the Commodity Boards (1986), and (iii) the specialized appraisal skills
that are needed but which are lacking among bankers for processing invest-
ments in tree crops.
3.24      Flexibility in Interest Rate Determination.  Under the market-
oriented financial policies of the SAP, the Government deregulated interest
rates and simplified the system of sector specific credit allocation.
Although these generate transitional problems for agriculture, they should
help in the longer run. The 18 sub-categories were reduced to only 3 in
1987, namely agriculture, manufacturing and small-scale enterprises. At
least 50 percent of credit is to be allocated to the high-priority sectors.
Before the deregulation in October 1986, the maximum permissible rate was
15 percent, and real interest rates were negative until 1985. Interest
rate regulation discouraged not only savings mobilization, but also term
financing (loans beyond 3 years). Currently, lending rates, which vary
from bank to bank, range from 15 to 18 percent. The annual inflation rates
projected by the Bank are 20 percent (1988), 15 percent (1989) and 10
percent (1990s).
D.   Project Objective, Lessons Learned from Past Bank Involvement, Ration-
ale for World Bank Involvement and Project Formulation
3.25      Project Objective.  The main objective of the project is to help
Nigeria improve production and productivity in the palm oil and rubber
subsectors in the short and medium run. It thus contributes to
Government's short- to medium-term foreign exchange, production, income,
employment, and nutritional objectives. It is also supportive of the
Bank's strategy for promoting growth in agriculture and for facilitating
greater private sector involvement in the growth process. The design of
the project draws from lessons learned, it focuses on areas of greatest
potential in the subsectors and it seeks to address key constraints.
3.26      Past Bank Involvement and Lessons Learned.  The major lessons
relate to financing, land acquisition, public management, credit recovery



- 13 -
and food security for smallholders. Lack of financial support from the
states: The Bank invested in four projects, but disassociated itself from
the two in Bendel and Ondo states, because of the inability of the state
governments to fulfill their financial obligations which paralyzed
implementation. This project will reduce the financial contribution of
states to a minimum. It will be primarily in the form of nurseries to
service mixed crop smallholders (MCS). Other local costs not funded by the
Bank will be mainly met by Adapalm and Akwapalm from their own resources
and by participants of the Smallholder Development Units (SDU). Long
delays in acquiring land: This project will deal only with lands already
acquired, by Adapalm, Akwapalm and participating smallholders and lands
which communities have already agreed to transfer to Akwapalm. Poor
management: This proved to be a central problem as amply demonstrated by
the varying performance of the Imo and Rivers states projects. More
generally, all the other public plantations suffer from chronic poor
management. While this project cannot build adequate management capacity
in parastatals since the issues are economy-wide and require sustained
Federal and State attention, the project will require of participating
parastatals assurance of either satisfactory private management contracts
for at least the project period, or of satisfactory privatization plans.
Poor recovery of credit to smallholders: Fruit collection through which the
recovery were to be effected, was the responsibility of the states but it
was not carried out as envisaged. In this project, the nucleus estates
would provide inputs and services, and recover costs through a levy on the
price of the fruit delivered to the mill. Failure of monocropping:
Previous projects failed to recognize that inter-cropping (food crops
planted among trees) is the rule and monocropping the exception among
smallholders. Smallholders either ignored extension advice about monocrop-
ping or their participation or interest in the projects diminished. This
project will support MCS and will accommodate inter-cropping in the SDU
component.
3.27      Contribution to Government Objectives.  Increasing palm oil
production and rubber processing can make important contributions to the
Government's objectives in three key areas, namely reducing the severe
balance of payments deficit, promoting efficient growth and income creation
and improving nutritional status. Balance of Payments Objective: The
current substantial shortage of palm oil, estimated at 200,000 tons, could
rise to 300,000 tons in a decade. At 1988 and projected 1995 prices, these
shortfalls imply a cost of roughly US$100 and US$210 million respectively.
If rubber plantations and processing facilities were better maintained,
Nigeria could have exported twice its current level of roughly 30,000 tons,
and could have earned US$65 million in 1988. Efficient Growth: In both
tree crops, there is substantial scope for increasing yield and extraction
rates, thus increasing their contribution to value added and incomes. In
oil palm plantations, yields could double from 6-7 to 12-14 tons FFB/ha, if
better managed. Likewise, extraction rates could double from 10 to 20
percent, if the supply of Tenera FFB were to increase substantially. There
is significant scope for increasing extraction efficiencies by replacing
traditional with modern processing methods and by rehabilitating badly
maintained modern mills. Nutritional Objective: Finally, in addition to



- 14 -
the above potential macro benefits, palm oil is a basic consumption item
and an important source of nutrition. Palm oil supplies 70 to 90 percent
of total domestic consumption of vegetable oils, being relatively more
important in the south and relatively less in the north where groundnut oil
is produced.
3.28      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  An important objective of the
Bank's strategy in Nigeria is to promote supply response for activities in
which Nigeria has a comparative advantage either as an import substitute or
as an export. An important approach within that strategy is to promote
private sector involvement in the supply response. Given the supportive
framework of the SAP and the liberalization initiatives undertaken, tree
crop development has potential and is timely. The potential lies in three
major areas. First, there is potential in the short run by increasing
processing capacity using more efficient modern methods. About 90 percent
of palm oil in Nigeria is produced using low efficiency extraction methods.
The Bank will be promoting low-cost, low capacity mills, with extraction
efficiencies which are 70 to 80 percent higher. There is also a shortage
of efficient and well-managed rubber processing capacity. Access to Bank
financing of processing subprojects will promote investment and private
sector involvement in such capacity. Second, there is potential in the
medium run by rehabilitating public plantations and their mills through
better management. The Bank is offering options to ensure improvement in
this critical area on a longer term basis. Third, there is potential in
the long term by planting Tenera on both plantations and scattered
smallholdings. The Bank is investing in high-yielding - high-maintenance
Tenera under professional management and in high-yielding - low-maintenance
Tenera intercropped with food in smallholdings. This double-pronged
approach is based on past Bank involvement in the Imo and Rivers Oil Palm
projects. As stated above (para 3.26), the experience shows that oil palm
development must accommodate smallholders' need for food and incomes during
the years of immaturity; otherwise, their capacity to plant Tenera or to
replace their aging and low yielding Dura will be severely limited.
3.29      Project Formulation.  Despite the potential benefits to the
economy and to individual households of promoting palm oil and rubber
production, and the current favorable incentive environment, it is neces-
sary to specifically address several major structural constraints in order
to encourage public and private investment in the sector. The main ones
are the following: (i) the reluctance of the potential investor to assun,
the foreign exchange risk. Given the recent sharp devaluation of the naira
which is expected to continue in the near future, this reluctance is to be
expected. The foreign exchange component of processing mills, and of
infrastructural development on plantations, can be quite high. Within the
project, the Federal Government or the Imo State Government would assume
the foreign exchange risk; (ii) the limited capabil'ty of banks to evaluate
investment proposals in the sector and to effectively respond to and guide
private investor interest. The project will include incentives to develop
the required expertise through access to IBRD financing via selected banks.
In addition, the project offers technical assistance to these banks; (iii)
the institutional constraints which impede the commercialization and



- 15 -
privatization of plantation managements. Since these are economy-wide
issues, the World Bank, through its macro dialogue is assisting the
Government to formulate effective programs. Consistent with this macro
dialogue, this project is offering commercialization and privatization
options to the public plantation sector to improve its management, as a
condition of access to IBRD funds.
E.   The Project Area
3.30        Natural Conditions.  The project will serve oil palm and rubber
growers in the 10 states of southern Nigeria (IBRD Maps 21061 and 21062),
all with favorable but not optimum conditions for oil palm cultivation.
Oil palm grows naturally throughout the area, and improved varieties
(Tenera) have also proved viable and productive. Many locations offer
suitable soils. Tenera plantings are particularly well-adapted to the
moist troughs of undulating land, where other crops do poorly.   However,
these areas suffer from water deficits during the dry season which result
in yields lower than those prevailing in Southeast Asia. Insufficient
sunshine during the rainy season is another handicap, but one with less
effect on yields. The areas of lowest water deficit are situated in the
southeast, where yields are expected to be highest at about 14 tons of FFB
per hectare. Unlike oil palm, natural conditions are excellent for rubber,
which is less sensitive to variations in rainfall distribution.
3.31             General Features.  Tropical secondary forest is the natural
vegetation of the area. Throughout the region there are still areas of
recently regenerated forests which are being cut to make room for crops.
Permanent farming is mainly in village compounds and tree crops, but the
most widespread pattern of traditional farming is the bush fallow system.
The region is relatively well served as far as roads and other infrastruc-
ture are concerned. Moreover, the FGN is strongly committed to programs to
improve rural roads, water supply, health and education services, and other
village amenities.
3.32      Agronomic Considerations.  The most serious and pervasive problem
in growing tree crops is the invasion of weeds, particularly Eupatorium
Odoratum. A minor problem is the control of leaf disease and pests.
Chemical treatment of weeds is effective, but is expensive. However, to
reduce costs, manual control of Eupatorium can be effective with early
establishment of leguminous cover crops soor, after mechanical land clear-
ing. During the immature years, intercropping makes manual weeding more
manageable. During the mature years, weeds will come back and need to be
controlled. Despite these difficulties, adequate weed control is possible
with good management. Diseases and pests can be effectively controlled by
spraying and by using rat baits, measures which have been tested thoroughly
by NIFOR and in the field. No major agronomic problems are foreseen in the
planting of oil palm, which is the focus of this project, or for other tree
crops such as rubber, cocoa and coffee, which are being cultivated in
several areas of Nigeria's southern states.



- 16 -
3.33      Socioeconemric Considerations.  The socioeconomic makeup is
complex and it is unclear how prevailing forms of land tenure affect
long-term incentives for tree crop development (see para. 4.16 on Studies).
The population is of diverse ethnic background, and many tribal communities
are represented. Settlement patterns and social, organizations vary accord-
ing to ethnic origins. In most areas the popul4tion is concentrated in
large villages, while smaller numbers of persons live in rather isolated
hamlets. Local authority is generally vested in traditional elders or
chiefs, who act as arbitrators in minor disputes, organize community
undertakings, and have considerable influence over land use and the assign-
ment of cultivation rights. Land may be owned by the community, families
or individuals. Commural lands are held in trust by the elders or family
heads who have the power to give such lands to individuals for specific
uses. In some areas, however, communal tenure is reported to be giving way
either to individual ownership or long-term occupancy. Farmers proposing
to plant tree crops often obtain favorable community response although it
is generally believed that approval is easier for annuals than for perenni-
als. The Land Use Decree of 1978, which was transformed into an Act in
1982, significantly amended traditional rules governing land ownership and
use. According to this Act, all land is owned by the state and the state
Governor has statutory power to revoke common occupation rights if it is in
the general interest. This Act is applicable in the creation of large
nucleus estates. In the event this Act is applied, the Government must
negotiate with affected parties the compensation package. The negotiation
process is likely to be very time consuming.
3.34      High Population Densities.  Population densities vary greatly
throughout Nigeria, but they tend to be high in the southern states, with
inevitable consequences for the reduction in fallow periods and in soil
fertility.   The southern states are more neavily populated; it is estimat-
ed that about 48 percent of Nigeria's population live in these 10 states,
which account for 29 percent of the country's area. Estimates of popula-
tion density for 1985 in terms of population per hectare of cultivable land
are 1.41 average nationwide, with 3.14, 1.16 and 0.70 for southern, north-
ern and middle belt states, respectively. Imo state is one of the most
densely p,ulated rural areas of Nigeria, with 7.25 people per arable
hectare or a population density of about 400 per sq.km.
3.35      Farm Labor Availability.  With high population densities and the
collapse of oil prices, farm labor availability is no longer a problem.
During the oil boom years, rising labor costs were a major factor in
contributing to agriculture's cost price squeeze. With the decline in the
employment opportunities of the oil sector, there has been a reverse
urban-rural labor flow.  Between 1980-1986, urban-rural income differen-
tials have narrowed significantly. The National Integrated Survey of
Households, covering 1980-1986 period, also shows a steep decline in the
incomes of rural self-employed and rural wage earners. With 1980 as base
year, the index for 1986 stood at 78.1 for all rural households. According
to the University of Nigeria's Farm Labor Survey (1985), real wages for
land clearing fell by 20 percent between 1983 and 1985.   Discussions in
the field with employers in the oil palm and rubber subsectors suggest that



- 17 -
base salaries approximate the official minimum of N4.81 (roughly a dollar a
day at the current exchange rate) and that unskilled labor is easily
available.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Summary Description
4.01      The project has two major components: specific public sector
interventions and proposed private sector investments. Under the first
component, the main activities would be: oil palm planting, processing, and
research. Under the second, activities would be in the construction or
rehabilitation of 80 palm oil and rubber processing units. The public
sector program would be implemented by Adapalm Limited, Akwapalm Limited,
the agricultural extension units/agencies of the 10 southern states and the
FDARD. These investments would create 17,000 ha of permanently monocropped
oil palm plantations and would replant 35,000 ha of regularly inter-cropped
oil palm holdings. The private investments would be through processing
subprojects (PS) appraised, approved and supervised by participating banks
(PB). Their involvement would be over the five years of the project with
disbursements spread over six years. Government support activities which
are funded directly would be in research, staff training, and studies on
smallholder oil palm farming systems. These would complement investments
in planting and processing.
4.02      Oil Palm Planting.  Inputs, financial assistance and extension
advice would be provided to participants in the following programs:
Participants                    Hectares             Location
Smallholders:
Oil palm mono-cropping           9,000               Ukwa, Imo State and Ekor,
Akwa Ibom State
Oil palm mixed cropping         35,000 *             Oyo, Ogun, Ondo, Bendel,
Benue, Anambra, Imo,
Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Cross
River States
Nucleus Estates:
Ekor                             3,000               Akwa Ibom State
Ukwa                             5,000               Imo State
* Equivalent to 17,500 ha in mono-crop oil palm.
4.03      Nucleus Estate Hills.  The project would finance two 20 ton/hr
mills on Ukwa and Ekor estates in Imo and Akwa Ibom Sta
4.04      Research.  The project would provide support for improving the
oil palm seed production facilities of NIFOR, including relevant research
station infrastructure.



- 18 -
4.05      Processing Facilities.  In addition to tLe Nucleus Estate mills,
the project would invest in new capacity for processing 115 tons of oil
palm fruits per hour and 50 tons of rubber per day and in the rehabili-
tation of 30 t/day rubber milling capacity.
4.06      Support Activities:
(a) Monitoring and Evaluation. Supporting the Tree Crops
Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) of the
Federal Department of A,,riculture and Rural Development to
improve its techiiical 'expertise;
(b)  Training.  Strengthening managerial and supervisory capabilities
of palm oil mill staff in the private sector;
(c) Studies. Evaluating existing oil palm mixed cropping systems to
guide future research and extension; and
(d) Technical Assistance. Providing expertise to participating banks
to conduct project appraisal and technical evaluation of palm oi_
and rubber processing projects. Providing technical and manage-
ment assistance to Adapalm and Akwapalm.
B.   Detailed Features
1.   The Planting Program
4.07      The planting program consists of 34,500 ha of mono-crop
equivalent of Tenera oil palms which approximates 20 percent of the
estimated area under this variety in Nigeria. Approximately 25,000 ha were
planted under previous Bank-assisted projects.
4.08      Adapalm Limited, an Imo State parastatal; Akwapalm, an Akwa Ibom
parastatal; and the State ADPs or MANR Tree Crop Units (TCU) would be the
executing agencies. The planting target of 34,500 ha of Tenera palms is
feasible as Adapalm has already cleared and planted 1000 ha of the Nucleus
Estate (NES); smallholders have shown acceptance of Tenera mono-cropping in
the previous Bank-assisted project in Imo State and TCU schemes in Akwa
Ibom State; mixed cropping with oil palm is widely practiced by small-
holders, many of whom are already purchasing Tenera oil palm seedlings; and
government-operated nurseries already exist in several areas. Annual
physical targets are tabled in Annex 4-1.
4.09      Mixed Crop Smallholders (MCS).  The program covers the establish-
ment of 70 small nurseries alongside perennial water sources, to supply
farmers seedlings which they would plant as a permanent crop in their
mixed-crop holdings and house compounds with advice from ADP extension
agents. These agents would also advise on the food and other crops which
the farmers cultivate. Farmers would provide labor and other needed inputs
out of their own resources. The nurseries would be operated by staff of



- 19 -
either the ADP or TCU in case of the latter having not been absorbed into
the ADP. MEU staff would approve nursery sites and monitor progress
through quarterly visits.
4.10      Mono-Crop Smallholder Development Units (SDU).  This component
would assist existing landowners in establishing 9,000 ha of small planta-
tion i-aits not exceeding 25 ha each in the Ukwa and Ekor areas of Imo and
Akwa Ibom States all within a 25 km radius of the proposed Ukwa and Ekor
NES and palm oil mills. Smallholder Development Units (SDU) managed by
Adapalm and Akwapalm would identify prospective participants on the basis
of ownership and demonstrable financial resources. SDU participants would
contribute in cash and labor 33 percent of the costs. SDU would supply the
balance in the form of inputs and services.
4.11      Nucleus Estates (NES) and Mills.  Adapalm would plant 5,000 ha of
oil palms in the Ukwa NES, on land it has already acquired. 1,000 ha have
been planted with oil palms ir. 1987 and 1988. Adapaim's Ukwa NES manage-
ment would draw on the expertise and experience of its existing Ohaji NES
to develop a further 4,000 ha and establish the attendant offices, staff
and worker housing and settlement infrastructure such as roads, water
supply and electricity. Adapalm would construct a 20 t/hr mill to process
the oil palm fruits produced in Ukwa NES and SDU farms, and harvested by
farmers from WPG. Akwapalm would plant 3,000 ha of oil palms as an
extension to its existing Ekor Estate of 1,000 ha of old palms which would
be due for replanting after 1998. Two blocks of 1,500 ha each have been
identified and agreement of surrounding village communities obtained on
acquisition. The land is mostly under wild palms and periodically culti-
vated for food crops under a fallow system. No resettlement would be
necessary and landlords would be compensated for economic trees. The
experience of Bank-assisted NES at Ohaji and ibima would be used to develop
the NES together with provision of housing and settlement infrastructure.
A 20 t/hr mill will be constructed to process oil palm fruit production
from Ekor NES, SDU and MCS farms, and WPG.
2.   Research
4.12      NIFOR, which is the sole supplier of oil T lm seeds in Nigeria,
is capable of supplying 7,000,000 seeds per year but inadequate equipment
and electricity supply undermines its capacity for producing consistently
good quality seed. This capacity is sufficient to supply the needs of
planting 35,000 - 38,000 ha per year depending on the level of nursery
management. The project's annual planting program would begin with 4,600
ha in PY1 and rise to 7,800 ha in PYS, giving a maximum requirement of 1.4
million seeds or 20 percent of NIFOR's annual production. To safeguard
consistent quality and dependable supply, the project would provide finan-
cial assistance to NIFOR to purchase equipment for stand-by electricity
generation and install proper air-conditioning of seed storage facilities;
to construct buildings and purchase equipment for its plant breeding and
fusarium research program; and to improve electricity and water supply
systems for its main research center at Benin where the seed production
facilities are located.



- 20 -
3.   Processing Facilities
4.13      Palm Oil Mills.  On the basis of recent applications submitted to
banks, and actual recent investments in plantations, it is anticipated that
the private sector would use PS financing to construct 60 new mills with 53
of these with a capacity of 2 t/hr or less; three of 3 t/hr capacity; and 4
of 10 t/hr capacity extendable to 20 t/hr. Annex 4-2 provides further
details.
4.14      Rubber Factories.  The private sector, with the assistance of
local banks, is expected to utilize PS financing to rehabilitate 15 crumb
rubber remilling, or creping lines which are either in a state of disrepair
or inefficiently operated because of poor equipment. In addition, both the
public and private sectors are expected to construct five new crumb lines.
Public sector estates would become eligible for PS financing upon initiat-
ing divestiture according to an agreed-to privatization plan or a lease of
estate property to a private party. Annex 4-2 provides more,details.
4.   Training and Studies
4.15      Training.  The project emphasizes the construction of small palm
oil mills. At present, management of such operations is generally of low
quality and preventive maintenance lacking. The project would finance the
cost of a training program for managers and supervisors. The program is to
be developed by an internationally-recruited tree crop processing expert
who would also assist PBs for PS financing in the technical evaluation of
project proposals.
4.16      Studies.  There is insufficient information to evaluate the
different mixed cropping systems integrated with oil palm cultivation in
terms of financial attractiveness, economic benefits, and environmental
effects. MEU would sponsor studies to develop such information for Anam-
bra, Imo, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River States, and with the assistance
of NIFOR develop technical packages for different parts of the country for
smallholder oil palm cropping systems. Further details are in Annex 4-3.
The studies would be contracted to a university wit} n the region on the
basis of suitable expertise, familiarity with local cultural patterns and
previous experience in the field. MEU would also undertake to document the
experience of various smallholder tree crop programs in Nigeria in respect
of provision of development credit and its recovery in order to assist the
formulation of smallholder credit programs in this subsector in future.
4.17      Monitoring and Evaluation.  MEU would recruit a financial analyst
who would assist the TCU/ADP to set up and maintain proper accounts for
their oil palm seedling nurseries, and assist government parastatals
involved in rubber and oil palm cultivation to develop privatization or
leasing plans so as to become elicible for PS financing. Existing agricul-
tural staff of the MEU would be responsible for evaluating suitability of
TCU/ADP nursery sites from the viewpoint of demand for oil palm seedlings,
water availability and accessibility. MEU agricultural staff would also



- 21 -
make quarterly visits to nursery sites to assess progress of nursery
establishment, compliance to nursery maintenance procedures, and sale of
seedlings.
4.18      Technical Assistance.  The FDARD does not have expertise in
project appraisal techniques required in working with the participating
banks for PS financing to establish loan processing procedures and
appraisal standards in the first year of the project. An internationally-
recruited project appraisal specialist would be engaged by the FDA for a
period of six months and, if necessary, for another six months to ensure
that all procedures pertaining to PS financing are firmly established. In
addition, an internationally-recruited tree crop processing expert located
in the -EU would assist participating banks in the technical evaluation of
projects (see para. 4.06). He would also help in organizing a training
program for private sector palm oil mill managers and supervisors   The
project appraisal specialist and the tree crop processing expert (para.
4.15) would be recruited not later than December 31, 1989.
C.   Project Costs and Financing
1.   Cost Estimates
4.19      The total incremental cost of the project, including taxes
(US$18.7 million), is estimated at US$160.0 million equivalent, of which
US$104.9 million or 66 percent are foreign exchange costs and US$55.1
million or 34 percent are local costs. Of the total cost, investment costs
amount to US$138.0 million equivalent or 86 percent while the incremental
recurrent costs amount to US$22.0 million equivalent or 14 percent. Costs
are based on 1988 prices revalued to 1989 price level by applying inflation
rates of 3 percent for foreign costs and 20 percent for local costs.
Foreign cost inflation rates remain the same until 1990 after which they
are assumed to be at 4 percent. Local costs are inflated at 15 percent for
1989 and 10 percent for subsequent years. Physical contingencies of 15
percent have been applied to civil works and buildings and of 5 percent for
all other categories of expenditure but excluding technical assistance,
salaries, estate management fee. Price plus physical contingencies amount
to US$19 million or 14 percent of base costs. A nor nal exchange rate of
N4.67 to US$1 has been used for 1988 and this is adjusted annually on the
basis of inflation rates used. A project cost summary is given in the
table below. Annex 4-4 provides tables on project costs by components and
years and by summary accounts.



- 22 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Naira '000)                (USS '000)
X Total
X Foreign Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign       Total  Exchange Costs
A. Ukwa Nucleus Estate -          85,429.8   66,200.8  91,830.7  7,803.0  12,080.3   19,683.2        81   14
Planting
B. Ukwa Mill                      14,303.1   37,180.3  f1,483.4  3.009.3   7,978.6   11,047.9        72    8
C. Ukwa Smaliholder Develop-
ment Unit                       9.098.e   7,309.6  16,408.1  1,962.6   1,668.8    3,621.1         46    2
D. Ekor Nucleus Estate
Planting                       268867.8   29,432.2  58,300.0  5,765.6   6,316.9   12,081.5        62    9
E. Ekor Mill                      13,487.8   37,768.7  51,228.4  2,890.1   8,102.7   10,992.8        74    8
F. Ekor Smallholder Develop-
ment Unit                       7,678.8    4,993.6  12,672.3  1,828.3   1,071.8    2,697.9        40    2
G. Nucleus Estates-
Management Fee                        -   12,667.0  12,657.0        -  2,718.1    2,716.1        100    2
H. Mixed Crops-Smallholders       21,621.6   8,600.1  28,121.6  4,818.4   1,418.3    8,034.7         23    4
I. Monitoring A Evaluation
Unit                            8,101.8    6,974.4  12,078.0  1,309.4   1,282.1    2,691.4        49    2
J. Nigerian Institute for
Oil Palm Research               4,196.3    4,448.7   8,643.0    900.6     964.2    1,854.7        61    1
K. Processing Subprojects         79.941.0  23B,029.0 316.970.0 17.164.7  60.B60.0   87,804.7        76  48
Total Baseline Costs             218,608.3  438,682.2 667,088.6 48,889.8  94,118.4  141,008.1       87  100
Physical Contingencies           8,698.1    9,309.2  17,907.3  1,846.1   1,997.7    3,842.8        62    3
Price Contingencies            104,008.9  182,B37.8 288,B44.7  B.360.0   8.792.6   16,142.6        S8  11
Total Project Costs              331,111.3  830,629.2 981,840.6 66,084.8 104,908.8  169,991.4       88  113
2.    Financing Plan
4.20        Of the total cost of US$160.0 million,  IBRD would finance
US$106.0 million at the standard variable interest rate and for a period of
22 years including a seven-year grace period. The IBRD loan representing
66 percent of total project costs (75 percent excluding taxes and duties)
equates to the foreign exchange cost of the project. Federal and state
Governments would contribute 2 percent of project costs amounting to US$3.1
million; Adapalm and Akwapalm 11 percent or US$17.7 million; smallholders 5
percent or US$8.2 million; and PBs and private investors 16 percent or
US$25 million. The proposed financing is as follows:
J'



- 23 -
Financing Plan
Project Component    Total Cost IBRD    FGN     State   Akwapalm/ Small-   Private
Govt.   Adapalm  holders   Investors and
US: Million                      PBs
Ukwa NES              24.2      19.1                     6.1
Ukwa SDU               4.2      2.4             0.8              1.2
Ukwa Mill             13.2      9.8                       3.4
Ekor NES              14.8      9.0                      5.8
Ekor SDU               3.2      1.8             0.4               1.0
Ekor Mill             13.2      9.8                      3.4
MCS                    7.2      0.8             0.4                0
NIFOR                  2.1      1.7   0.4
MEU                    2.9      1.6   1.3
Sub-Total             86.0      68.0   1.7      1.4      17.7     8.2
Percent              100        68     2        2        21       9
Processing
Subprojects           76.0      50.0                                       26.0
Total Financing      160.0    108.0   1.7       1.4      17.7     8.2      2S.0
Percent              100      e8       1        1        11       6        18
All except US$4.1 million of the US$106.0 million IBRD loan would be onlent
by FGN to PBs (US$50 million), Imo State Government (US$31.3 million), and
Akwa Ibom State Government (US$20.6 million). US$1.6 million would be used
to meet FGN's costs for MEU. US$1.7 million for NIFOR and US$0.8 million
for equipment and materials to be supplied to MCS nurseries. PBs in turn
would relend to private investors for oil palm mill and rubber factory
construction while Imo and Akwa Ibom State Governments would relend to
Adapalm and Akwapalm on terms and conditions acceptable to FGN and IBRD.
Overall, 86 percent of the loan would be used for ir estment costs and 14
percent for incremental recurrent costs which are either needed only for
the project period or would be met from project revenues in the
post-project period.
3.   Special Account
4.21      To ensure that foreign funds for the project would be available
when needed and to reduce the volume of low-value withdrawal applications,
NIFOR, MEU, Adapalm and Akwapalm would each establish and operate a special
account in U.S. dollars at a local commercial bank while each of the PBs
would establish similar accounts at their Lagos branch in the name of their
Head Office. Upon credit effectiveness and receipt of a withdrawal
application, the Bank would make an initial deposit of US$200,000 each in
the NIFOR and MEU Special Project Accounts and US$0.5 million each in the



- 24 -
Adapalm and Akwapalm Special Project Accounts to be used solely for the
purpose of prefinancing goods and sirvices under the loan. The Bank would
make an initial deposit of US$l million in each PB Special Account upon
receipt of a six-month forecast of withdrawals together with a withdrawal
application. The special accounts would be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with procedures in
Annex 4-5. Should any disbursement made from this account be found to be
ineligible for financing FGN would deposit or cause Adapalm, Akwapalm and
the PBs to deposit the corresponding amount into the account prior to
submission of any further replenishment applications.
4.   Procurement
4.22      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Proposed Procurement Method 1/
(US$ Million)
ICB          LCB           Other          Total
1. Buildings/Civil Works             6.5  (3.7)  4.1 (2.8)                    10.6  (6.5)
2. Vehicles                          1.3  (1.1)                  0.1           1.4  (1.1)
3. Heavy Equipment, Agricul-
tural Machinery, and
other Equipment                  10.4  (8.8)  0.4 (0.3)       0.7  (0.2)  11.5  (9.3)
4. Nucleus Estates - Mill
Equipment                        18.6 (15.8)                  0.1  (0.1)  18.7 (15.9)
5. Nucleus Estates - Planting                                    6.8  (4.0)   6.8  (4.0)
6. Smallholders Unit - Planting                                  6.3  (3.5)   6.3  (3.5)
7. Mixed Crop Smallholders -
Planting                                                      6.7  (0.8)   6.7  (0.8)
8. Technical Assistance and
Internationally Recruited
Staff and Management Fees                                    11.5 (11.5)  11.5 (11.5)
9. Processing Subprojects           20.0 (13.0)                 55.0 (37.0)  75.0 (50.0)
10. Recurrent Costs 2/                                           11.5  (3.4)  11.5  (3.4)
56.8 (42.4)  4.5 (3.1)    98.7 (60.5) 160.0(106.0)
1/ Figures in ( ) refer to financing by IBRD
2/ Includes local staff salaries (US$3.3 million)
(a)  Direct Project Lending:  Goods and works estimated to cost an
equivalent of US$500,000 or more would be procured through ICB
procedures. Goods and works estimated to cost an amount equiva-
lent to US$60,000 or more but less than US$500,000 would be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding, advertised locally and under procedures



- 25 -
satisfactory to the Bank and in aggregate estimated to be US$4
million. Goods and works estimated to cost an amount equivalent
to less than US$60,000 may be procured through at least three
comparative quotations from suppliers eligible under the Bank
guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
and in aggregate for non-recurrent costs this would amount to
US$9.6 million. Owing to the size and dispersion over time,
foreign contractors are unlikely to be interested in building
construction (mostly housing) contracts amounting to US$4.1
million. These would be grouped into packages of US$200,000 and
would be procured under LCB procedures which have been reviewed
and found to be acceptable. Some capability exists within the
country for such type of construction, but foreign contractors
will be allowed to bid for these contracts. Civil works
amounting to US$6.5 million are for the constructiorn of two 20
ton/hr mills and would be procured under ICB procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines and from bids of prequalified
contractors only. Palm oil equipment including installation and
commissioning works totalling US$18.6 million would be procured
under ICB procedures and Bank guidelines from prequalified
suppliers and contractors only. Vehicles, heavy equipment and
agricultural machinery totalling US$10.4 million would be pro-
cured under ICB procedures following Bank guidelines. Research,
office and other equipment totalling US$1.1 million would be
acquired through LCB and prudent shopping procedures. In
accordance with current practice and due to a lack of contractors
to undertake specialized package operations, NES and SDU planting
operations costing US$13.1 million would be by force account
using estate-owned equipment and resident estate or smallholder
labor and small contracts through comparative quotations from
experienced local contractors. MCS planting operations costing
US$6.7 million would be undertaken by the smallholders them-
selves. Staff under technical assistance for MEU and staff and
management services for project operations total US$11.5 and
would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. Terms of
reference, qualifications, terms and conditions of employment
would be satisfactory to IBRD. Recurrent )st items other than
salaries and less than US$60,000 equivalent would be procured by
Adapalm, Akwapalm, NIFOR and MEU through prudent shopping. LCB
procedures would apply for items US$60,000 and above equivalent,
although no single contract is expected to be in this range. All
bidding packages and contract awards for works and goods
estimated at US$500.000 or more equivalent would be subject to
prior Bank review. This would result in a coverage of about 49
percent of value of contracts. The remaining contracts would be
subject to post-review after contract awards.
(b) Processing Subprojects. The participating banks would be
responsible for monitoring all sub-project procurement using Bank
funds and for ensuring compliance with standard Bank Procurement
Guidelines. The PBs would take necessary steps to assure that



- 26 -
all procurement is competitive, in price and quality, and items
are available and consistent with the project as described in the
sub-project appraisal report. All appraisal reports of approved
subprojects would include a list of goods and services to be
financed under the Bank loan, the methods of procurement, and
criteria for selection of goods and services. The PBs, as part
of their normal supervision of subprojects, will review the
procurement aspects to assure that procurement is from eligible
sources and for eligible goods and services and the required
procurement practices have been or will be followed. However,
goods estimated to cost US$2 million or more would be procured
through ICB procedures but the Bank in reviewing all appraisal
reports above the PBs' approval limit which initially would be
US$1 million equivalent would consider making exceptions on
grounds of customer preference, proven quality and local support
services.
5.   Disbursement
4.23      The proceeds of the Bank loan of US$106.0 million would be
disbursed over six years beginning the second semester of FY90 through
FY95. The disbursement schedule in Annex 4-6 is based on the actual
disbursement for a previous Bank-funded nucleus estate oil palm complex in
Nigeria.



- 27 -
Disbursement by Categories
(US$ Million)
Category                        Amount of Loan       Z of Expenditure
Allocated            to be Financed
1. Civil Works                        6.0            100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 90% of local
expenditures
2. Vehicles, Equipment,               8.2            1002 of foreign expendi-
Machinery and spare parts                         tures and 85% of local
(excluding palm oil mill                         expenditures
equipment)
3. Oil Palm Planting and              7;5            1002 of foreign expendi-
Maintenance                                       tures and 90% of local
expenditures
4. Palm Oil Mill Equipment           14.0            100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 85% of local
expenditures
5. Consultants' Services and          9.8            100%
Training
6. Operating Costs                    3.1            50%
7. Processing Subproiects            50.0            1002 of foreign expendi-
tures and consultancies
up to a maximum of 65% of
cost of subproject
8. Unallocated                        7.4
106.0
4.24      Disbursement against all expenditure would be based on full
documentation. However, disbursement against expenditures relating to
salaries and contracts for goods and services of less than US$60,000 would
be made against statements of expenditure (SOE). The project implementing
agency would have adequate control over the preparation of SOEs, for which
supporting documentation would be kept for review by auditors. The docu-
mentation would be readily available for review by Bank supervision mis-
sions. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. Documen-
tation to be submitted to the Bank prior to obtaining authorization for
withdrawals from the loan account or payments out of the special account
for expenditures for a processing sub-project within the PB's approval
limit (para. 4.22) would include a summary description of the beneficiary,



- 28 -
an appraisal of the sub-project covering the technical, economic, financial
and environmental aspects, a list of goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Bank loan and the method of procurement and terms
and conditions of the sub-project loan.
4.25      Disbursement of nursery expenditures for MCS would be restricted
to purchases of small motorized irrigation pumps and spares; fencing
materials; knapsack sprayers; polyethylene bags; fungicides, insecticides
and herbicides; and motorcycles for n rsery supervisors. The Special
Account with MEU would be used to pre finance these expenditures.
6.   Reporting, Accounts and Audit
4.26      Adapalm. andi Akwapaln would maintain separate accotnts for NES,
palm oil mills and SDU and submit to the Bank audited consolidated as well
as individual unit accounts not later than six months from the end of each
accounting period. Adapalm and Akwapalm would appoint independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, who in addition to the auditor's opinion and the
financial statement would make out a long form report, a copy of which
Adapalm and Akwapalm would submit to the Bank. These auditors would also
make separate audits of the special accounts and claims under SOE pro-
cedures. PBs would furnish the Bank an annual report prepared by inde-
4pendent auditors within six months of the close of an accounting period;
maintain separate accounts for PS loans; and provide the Bank with annual
status reports on borrowers and such other information as the Bank, CBN and
FDARD may reasonablv request. NIFOR and MEU would maintain a separate
account of all expenditure related to IBRD financing and submit audited
annual accounts to the Bank not later than six months from the end of each
accounting period and this would include a separate audit of the special
account and claims under SOE procedures. Adapalm, Akwapalm, NIFOR, MEU and
PBs would submit quarterly progress reports on their portion of the project
to be received by the Bank not later than 45 days from the end of each
quarter of the year. Adapalm, Akwapalm, NIFOR and MEU would submit to the
Bank for information annual budgets for each project component at least one
month prior to the start of the financial new year. A project completion
report would be prepared by MEU on all components of the project to be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after project closing.
D.   Project Implementation
1.   Organization and Management
4.27      The project would be implemented under the overall responsibility
of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Develop-
ment (FMAWRRD) which, through its FDARD, would ensure proper planning and
control of execution by Adapalm, Akwapalm, state TCUIADPs and PBs. The
Project Organization is in Annex 4-7.



- 29 -
2.   Mixed Crop Oil Palm Smallholders Program
4.28      The planting and maintenance would be undertaken by the farmers
themselves using mostly family labor. The Bank-financed ADPs in Ogun,
Benue, Bendel, Anambra, Imo, Cross River and Akwa Ibom States, which have
adopted the T&V system, would provide the extension advice. The ADPs of
Oyo, Ondo, and Rivers States proposed for the recently appraised MSADP III
would provide a similar extension service. Farmers who wish to permanently
inter-crop would be advised not to plant more than 75 oil palms to one
hectare and apply fertilizers at least in the first year of planting
Experience shows that because of the three-year wait for harvesting,
farmers are unlikely to apply fertilizers to the oil palms in the interven-
ing years.  They are, however, likely to do so on the inter-crops such as
yams, cassava, maize and plantains. This indirectly DenefittF the palms.
Yields, however, are expected to average 4 tons of FFB per hectare. Oil
palm seedlings would be produced in nurseries run by the TCP/ADP of the
state MANR. A nursery would not usually exceed 1 ha in size to make hand-
watering economical and manageable. Each nursery would be managed by a
TCU/ADP supervisor who would report to a TCU/ADP agronomist who would have
been trained in oil palm nursery technology and management techniques. The
TCU/ADP of each state would purchase the seed from NIFOR and look after the
seedlings until they are sold for planting after 12-14 months in the
nursery. The actual operation of the nursery may be contracted out to
individuals or groups. The minimum price of seedlings at MCS nurseries
would be increased as follows: 60 percent (1989), 75 percent (1990), 85
percent (1991), and 100 percent (1992 onwards) of full cost and only those
TCUs/ADPs that comply with this pricing requirement would be eligible to
obtain IBRD disbursement against MCS nursery expenditures and assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations. FGN and the Bank would jointly
review the impact of these price increases on smallholder demand for oil
palm seedlings in 1991. In order to obtain a uniformity in activities and
avoid duplication with effect from 1991, only ADP-operated MCS nurseries
would be eligible for IBRD disbursement under this loan. TCU-operated
nurseries would have to be transferred to the ADPs to be eligible for IBRD
disbursement.
3.   Monocrop Oil Palm Smallholders Program
4.29      The high investment in a monocrop plantation irrespective of size
requires a high management and technology input if reasonable yields are to
be obtained. For a smallholder program of this nature there has to be
intensive supervision and adequate input supply during the immaturity
period of 4 years. The Adapalm/Akwapalm SDU working out of the NES would
provide this extension and with the support of the NES technical and
managerial infrastructure provide the inputs in the form of mechanical
clearing, oil palm seedlings, cover crop seeds, fertilizers and chemicals.
Participants would supply all the labor including that for initial manual
felling and purchase the oil palm seedlings for initial planting. In the
case of the latter they would have to deposit with Adapalm/Akwapalm 50
percent of the cost upon completion of manual felling and the balance prior
to delivery of the ready-to-plant seedlings. In order to keep out noxious



- 30 -
weeds, particularly Eupatorium Odatorum, leguminous cover crops will be
planted by farmers soon after mechanical clearing. However, owner-operator
farmers (with holdings of 5 ha and below) would, at the discretion of SDTJ
management, be permitted to plant intercrops in place of cover crops in
order to enable them to generate income during the prolonged investment
period and not neglect the maintenance of their oil palm holding. SDU
staff woula advise farmers against planting inter-crops on sites where soil
erosion could become serious. Participants would be selected from individ-
uals or groups of farmers who are able to prove ownership of a minimum of 5
ha in a contiguous site to make mechanical clearing economical. Selection
would be made by an SDU Selection Committee made up of the Project Manager,
SDU, a representative of the State Commissioner of Agriculture, the General
Manager of Adapalm or Akwapalm who would be the Chairrman of the Cormr.ittee,
one official from the the local government of the SDU project area and one
zommunity leader appointed by the same local government. Participation
would be limited to a maximum of 25 ha per individual who will sign a
smallholder service and input supply agreement with Adapalm/Akwapalm. The
establishment of the SDU Selection Committee and finalization of a satis-
factory model agreement for the provision of services and inputs to farmers
participating in the monocrop oil palm smallholder program would be a
condition of disbursement of this component of the loan, as would be the
conclusion of a satisfactory agreement between Adapalm/Akwapalm and the
respective state government on the terms and conditions of management of
the SDU service and input supply program on behalf of the State Government.
4.   Nucleus Estate
4.30      Adapalm/Akwapalm would set up separate managements for NES, Palm
Oil Mills, and SDU and enter into a management contract with a private
estate management organization who would supply for the 5-year project
period the following internationally-recruited personnel: Project Coordina-
tor, Senior Agronomist, Mills Inspector, Computer Specialist, Finance and
Administration Controller, Plantation Administration Manager, Workshop
Manager, Mill Manager, Mill Engineer, and Land Preparation Manager for
Adapalm and NES Manager, Workshop Manager, Mill Manager and Mill Engineer
for Akwapalm. The signing of this management contract for the period of
the project would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The planting
program for NES would be executed by Plantation Administration Units which
will continue to observe the agronomic and development standards
established at Adapalm's Ohaji NES. At negotiations, the Bank obtained
assuranices from the Imo and Akwa Ibom State Governments that they would
continue to support Adapalm/Akwapalm as autonomous and efficient operations
and would inform the Bank prior to making any changes in the composition of
the Adapalm/Akwapalm boards and Adapalm/Akwapalm making any new investments
additional to those in this project. They would ensure that any person
appointed to the position of General Manager/Managing Director of
Adapalm/Akwapalm has the qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank and would consult the Bank prior to Adapalm/Akwapalm signing and/or
making major changes to the management contract with a private estates
management organization. The Imo and Akwa Ibom state governments, each
signing a loan agreement with Adapalm and Akwapalm, respectively, with



- 31 -
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
disbursement.
4.31      The following credit terms would apply to NES and SDU:
Lender                                    FGN (IBRD)
Borrower (Intermediary)                   Imo and Akwa Ibom States
Onlending to                              Adapalm and Akwapalm
Duration (years)                          22
Grace period (yeare)                      7
Investor's contribution (Z)               20
Currency of loan to end-borrower          U.S. dollars
Interest rate to end-borrower             IBRD Rate
Currency of credit to intermediary        U.S. dollars
Interest rate to intermediary             IBRD rate
Foreign exchange risk bearer              Adapalm and Akwapalm (except in the
case of SDU costs where the state
government would take the risk)
4.32      The above credit arrangements use the following assumptions: (a)
a crop maturity period of three years after planting; (b) capitalization of
interest during the grace period; and (c) Adapalm and Akwapalm contributing
from their own resources including borrowing from local banks (see Annex
5-3). FGN concluding subsidiary loan agreements with Imo and Akwa Ibom
state governments with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would
be a condition of effectiv._ess.  The Imo and Akwa Ibom state governments
depositing in the SDU project bank account of Adapalm and Akwapalm an
amount equivalent to the estimated SDU expenditure for the first six months
of the project would be an additional condition of effectiveness.
5.   NIFOR
4.33      NIFOR would purchase equipment and install improved electricity
and water supply facilities to help improve its seed production, especially
in terms of uniformity and quality. Assurances were obtained that NIFOR
would sell its oil palm seed and seedlings at full cost as from 1990 and
1991, respectively, and engage the services of a commercial accountant to
ascertain this cost annually. In support of the seed production program it
would enhance the performance of its plant breeding activities by providing
appropriate equipment and facilities including those for fusarium wilt
research.
6.   PS Financing
4.34      To promote greater involvement in modern processing by the
private sector, FGN would make available Bank finance for the importation
of equipment required to establish new processing units or rehabilitate
existing ones. The funds would be initially allotted to participating
banks selected on criteria elaborated in Annex 4-8. Each PB will operate
with an initial allocation of a minimum of US$10 million and a maximum of



- 32 -
US$15 million as may be requested by each PB. An annual review by the
FDARD and Bank would decide on whether there is a need to reallocate the
funds among the existing PBs or incorporate additional PBs. It would be a
condition of disbursement that FGN has concluded with each PB a subsidiary
loan agreement for PS financing with terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank and that each PB has the expertise necessary in oil palm and
rubber lending operations in its agricultural lending department as
assessed by the project appraisal specialist and the tree crop processing
expert assigned to FDARD (para. 4.18). All private sector enterprises
having more than 50 percent private ownership would be eligible to apply
for PS financing. Public sector companies with oil palm or rubber estate
property would also be eligible to apply for PS financing upon having
entered into a management contract with a reliable private estates
management company for a period within which more than 50 percent of the
voting shares of the company would be transferred to private hands as would
be stipulated in a plan of divestiture agreed to with the PB and accepted
by the Bank. Public sector estate companies, which face problems of
transfer of land ownership to private corporations would lease their
properties to a private company who would become eligible to apply for PS
financing upon the PB and the Bank being satisfied with the terms of the
lease. The cessation of budgetary support to the parastatal plantations,
would increase the possibility of providing financial assistance to these
plantations through this means. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that other than for Adapalm and Akwapalm the federal government and the Imo
and Akwa Ibom State Governments would not provide budgetary support to
their parastatal plantations, except for minority interest capitalization
or financial restructuring in connection with divestiture to the private
sector.
4.35      Eligible subprojects would have to be technically, financially
and economically sound. Palm oil mills of a capacity of 1 ton/hr and above
and rubber factories of a capacity of 5 tons/day (2-shift) wou1A be re-
quired to have a feasibility study prepared by an independent consultant
who would include proposals on environmental pollution control. A minimum
of 25 percent of the cost of the sub-project would be in the form of
owner's equity, a maximum Bank loan of 65 percent to finance the foreign
exchange costs and the balance supplied by the PBs in the form of equity,
quasi-equity, or a loan. An existing project owner's present equity would
be counted in determining the equity requirements. The debt equity ratio
on a proforma and actual basis would not exceed 3:1. Subprojects with
total costs of US$200,000 and above, in naira equivalent, would furnish a
financial rate of return (FRR). An economic rate of return (ERR) would
also be required for subprojects with total costs of US$1 million or more
in naira equivalent. FRR (after taxes), and ERR each would have to be at
least 12 percent in constant prices.
4.36      PS finalLcing would be limited to the following items:
(a) imported equipment and materials required for palm oil mills or
processing of oil palm fruits, but not including palm oil/vege-
table oil refineries and palm kernel crushing mills;



- 33 -
(b) imported equipment needed for expansion and/or rehabilitation of
an oil palm estate when linked to financing of a palm oil mill;
(c) imported equipment and materials required for rubber factories
for processing raw rubber or for remilling poor quality processed
rubber, but excluding manufacture of finished goods;
(d) imported equipment and materials needed for expansion and/or
rehabilitation of a rubber estate when linked to financing of
rubber processing equipment and construction materials;
(e) transportation equipment for collection of raw materials for
rubber and palm oil processing when linked with financing of
processing equipment and construction material;
(f) imported equipment and materials for workshop facilities for
fabrication and repair of palm oil mills and spare parts; and
(g) cost of consultancy services in connection with (a) to (f) above.
4.37      Participating banks would assure themselves of the capability of
the applicant to generate funds required to amortize the loan and to carry
the loan during the grace period. Maximum loan maturity would be 12 years
with a grace period not exceeding 3 years. Participating banks would visit
the sub-borrower's plant at least annually, paying particular attention to
maintenance of the plant and equipment and submit a written report to the
borrower and the Bank on their findings.
4.38      The following credit terms would apply to PS financing:



- 34 -
Lender:                         FGN (IBRD)
Borrowers (intermediaries):   Participating Banks
Onlending to:                   Private investors or public sector estates in
the process of privatization
Duration:                       12 years maximum
Grace Period:                   3 years maximum
Investor's Contribution:       Minimum of 25% of sub-project
PS Financing:                  Maximum of 651 of cost of sub-project
End-Borrower Borrowing and    Naira or U.S. dollars at the end-borrower's
Repayment Currency:          discretion
Intermediary Borrowing and    Naira or U.S. dollars at the end-borrower's
Repayment Currency:          discretion
Interest Rate to Inter-        CBN Rediscount rate for Naira lending and
mediary:                      IBRD rate plus 1.25Z * for U.S. dollar
lending together with a commitment charge of
3/4 of 1% on undisbursed balance
Interest Rate to End-
Borrower:                    Left to intermediary
Foreign Exchange Risk:          FGN or end-borrower
depending on option taken
* to reflect cross currency risk (approximately 0.52 p.a.) plus differen-
tial for international U.S. dollar lending rate (10% on IBRD rate).
PS funds would be disbursed to the PBs by the Bank and CBN would maintain a
Tree Crops Project Account for FGN. In this account, in the case of FGN
taking the foreign exchange risk, each disbursement would be converted to
naira at the official CBN exchange rate on the day of disbursement and
compound interest charged at the CBN rediscount rate (CRR). The CRR would
be presumed to reflect the domestic cost-of-money, and the differential
between CRR and IBRD lending rate, which is currently 5 percent (12.75 less
7.65 percent), would be assumed as the cost of the foreign exchange risk to
be borne by FGN. PBs would set their own rates for the end-borrowers.
Banks indicate they need a 3 percent differential to cover risk and costs.
However, the effective differential that is likely to be charged to borrow-
ers is likely to be more as evidenced by effective rates being paid by
borrowers a; present. The differential is likely to be 4 to 5 percent,
which at current money cost would make end-borrower rates as 17 to 18



- 35 -
percent including all fees and charges. In the case of the borrower opting
to take the foreign exchange risk, the rate to the PB would be the IBRD
rate plus 1.25 percent with end-borrower rates left to the PB. The credit
risk would be assumed by the participating bank originating and financing
the sub-project.  The amortization schedule accompanying each sub-loan
approval would be the basis of PB's repayment to CBN with a six-month lag
on each repayment date. Initially, each PB would follow its own practices
and procedures in processing up to the first three loan applications. The
project appraisal specialist would review the procedures and the first
three applications with the assistance of the tree crop processing expert.
The specialist in consultation with the PBs and the Bank would determine
the specific financial arrangements and procedures for handling sub-loans.
In the same process, appropriate approval limits for each bank would be
set. Sub-loan applications in excess of the approval limit would be
submitted to the Bank for its review. PBs would be fully responsible for
administering all sub-loans.
7.   Implementation Plan
4.39      The project's planting program would be implemented over a
five-year period. Nursery preparation for each year's planting would have
to start two years earlier, which means nursery expencitures for the first
two years of the project would have been incurred prior to project start-
up. The PS financing would be committed over 2 years. The Project Imple-
mentation Schedule is at Annex 4-9.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND PROFITABILITY
1.   Production: Technical Aspects
5.01      The planting program would consist of (i) production of planting
material, (ii) land clearing, (iii) crop establishment and (iv) maintenance
operations. Planting material for MCS holdings would be supplied by
TCU/ADP-operated nurseries. In the case of SDU and nucleus estate plant-
ings, the oil palm seedlings will be produced in central nurseries operated
by Adapalm and Akwapalm. Land clearing on MCS holds gs would be carried
out manually by removing light regenerated bush or derelict palms. For the
SDU and the NES, combined manual and mechanical clearing would be adopted.
Planting of palms for the MCS would not exceed 75 to the hectare to allow
permanent inter-cropping and prevent severe pruning of palms to accommodate
annual crops. However, participants who wish to monocrop would not be
discouraged to do so but would be advised to intercrop in the immature
period. SDU and nucleus estates would have a planting density of 143
palms/ha and leguminous cover crops would be established immediately after
mechanical clearing. SDU owner-operator participants can opt for temporary
intercropping subject to the terrain being certified as suitable for annual
cropping. Maintenance operations consists of weeding, pest and disease
control and fertilizing. Fertilizers would be applied on cover crops and
palms in the SDU holdings and NES. MCS participants would apply fertilizer
to palms in the first year and extension agents would promote annual



- 36 -
fertilization although it is unlikely that it would be adopted as a general
practice in the immature period. A higher adoption rate could be expected
once harvesting starts as participants would have cash to purchase fertil-
izers. Harvesting of oil palms would be on 10-28 day rounds depending on
the production intensity with higher production being in the first half of
the year coinciding with higher rainfall.
5.02      The two 20 ton/hr palm oil mills to be constructed by Adapalm and
Akwapalm would be of the mechanized conventional type using screw presses
and generating steam for power, process sterilization and heating.
Extraction efficiencies would be 92-942. Both the mills would be designed
to allow for expansion to 30 ton/hr at a later stage. The PS financing of
palm oil mills anticipates a large demand in small-capacity mills of 1-3
tons/hr both for mechanized and semi-mechanized types with the latter being
preferred because of lower capital costs. Extraction efficiencies of these
small mills are 85-90 percent. The rubber factories anticipated for PS
financing are of the conventional crumb (block), latex concentrate,
creping, remilling and sheet types.
2.   Production: Yields and Incremental Output
5.03      Yields of oil palm fruit are estimated to peak at 4 tons per
gross hectare (including intercropped area) per year for MCS, 10 tons/ha/yr
for SDU and 14 tons/ha/yr for NES. The project's incremental production
from new plantings at the peak period (Year 13) have been estimated at
67,000 tons of palm oil and 11,000 tons of palm kernels as shown in Annex
5-1.
3.   Markets and Prices.
5.04      Favorable but Highly Variable Palm Oil Prices.  The prospects for
producer prices of palm oil and hence for FFB remain favorable despite
sharp variability, and knowledgeable observers assess a substantial domes-
tic shortage persists. Domestic prices have been favorable well before the
SAP, because by 1984 they reflected the scarcity premium on foreign ex-
change and the difficulties of obtaining licenses for imports. The average
millgate price of crude palm oil (CPO) jumped from I 00/ton in 1983 to
N1600/ton in 1984. In 1986, world prices reached a low point, at USS
217/ton compared to US$717/ton in 1970, (in constant 1985 prices), and
there was importation of 175,000 tons of palm and other vegetable oils. In
spite of this, CPO price averaged N2000/ton. However, a carry-over of
stocks and further imports in early 1987 caused prices to fall to as low as
N1300/ton in the spring of 1987 when local palm oil production peaked.
They were, however, back to N2100 - 2200 by the end of the year. Mid-1988
price of roughly N2400 is 10 percent higher than the border equivalent of
the international price of US$480/ton, cif N.W. Europe. The Bank's pro-
jected prices indicate a decline to US$448 in 1989 followed by a sharp
increase to US$632 in 1995 and to US$617 in 2000, all in constant 1989
prices. With these projected prices, and given comparative costs from
different production systems, domestic CPO remains competitive as an import



- 37 -
substitute, even without the tariff rates proposed in the 1988 tariff
schedule.
5.05      Estimates of Current Shortage.  Despite data problems, it is
reasonable to assume that current shortage is substantial. Data on CPO
production in Nigeria are weak with estimates of annual production varying
from 320,000 to 770,000 tons. Similarly estimates of demand vary widely
from 600,000 to 850,000 tons. Estimates of shortage vary from 300,000 to
500,000 tons. Given this wide variability, the best guide is the judgement
of knowledgeable observers, an understanding of some basic behavioral and
technical parameters involved, and estimates of recent imports. Knowledge-
able observers estimate production at 400,000 to 450,000 tons and demand at
600,000 to 650,000 tons, thus indicating a shortfall of 200,000 tons. The
technical parameters which are consistent with this production estimate are
the following: on 70,000 ha. of estates, average FFB yield per ha is 7 tons
and CPO/ha is 1.4 ton; on 90,000 ha. of smallholdings, corresponding yields
are 5 and 1 ton respectively; and for 2.1 million ha. WPG, corresponding
yields are 2 and .1 ton respectively. These parameters seem reasonable.
The demand estimate is based on guesses of population size and on a 1968
survey data on per capita consumption. Population estimates vary from 80 to
120 million, and per capita consumption of fats and oils from 8.5 to 11
kg/year. Although the survey data is old, the range is comparable to the
Bank's estimate of 9.3-10.1 kg/head for Africa. Estimates of constrained
imports are 175,000 tons in 1986 despite the ban and less than 100,000 in
1987. Juxtaposing these various data, an estimate of 200,000 tons of
potential shortfall is conservative.
5.06      Estimates of Projected Shortage.  Projected shortage is also
conservatively estimated at 300,000 tons for 1995 and 400,000 tons for
2001. In projecting demand, an important distinction is between potential
and effective, the latter being a function of income growth and price
elasticities. Using potential rather than effective, tends to understate
likely demand and h.ence shortfall. The Bank's estimate of income elasti-
city for developing countries is 0.8 and price elasticities as high as 1.2
were used in the 1981 Bank Oil Palm Subsector Review. The conservative
estimate is based on the following. Demand is expected to grow about 3
percent per year while supply on the basis of existi..g plantings and
projects would grow about 2 percent per year. However, with new plantings
under the project and the additional exploitation of wild palms through an
increase in processing facilities both through this project and those
proposed for European Investment Bank (EIB) and European Development Fund
(EDF) financing, the gap would be reduced to 180,000 tons in 1995 and
200,000 tons in 2001 as in Annex 5-2.
4.   Profitability.
5.07      Overall Assessment.  The economic and financial rates of return
on the direct investment component of the project, namely the NES, Ukwa and
Ekor mills, SDU, and MCS, are attractive and robust. They are also attrac-
tive for the PS investments. In the base case, the ERR is 21 percent.
Under a pessimistic scenario of a three-year lag in benefits, the ERR falls



- 38 -
to 15. With an opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 12 percent, switching
valuee for the ERR are a fall in benefits of 45 percent or a rise in cost
of 81 percent. The ability of Adapalm and Akwapalm to finance future
capital replacements and debt service is detailed in Annex 5-3. Detailed
assumptions and derivations for the economic and financial analyses of the
overall project and of different sub-components are set out in Annex 5-4.
PS investments would have FRR ranging from 18-50 percent and ERR from 18-60
percent as detailed in Annex 4-2.
5.08      SDU and MCS.  The financial returns to the SDU and MCS are also
attractive. For the SDU, on a per hectare basis, the gross return per man
day (MD) is N20 in Year 5, the first year of production and rises to N=52
in Year 8, the first year of peak production. This compares well with the
average wage rate of N4.81-7 per MD. SDU farmers would receive a price for
their fruits related to the prices of crude palm oil and kernel and the
cost of processing less a deduction per ton of fruit to recover the cost of
services and inputs extended to the farmers by SDU. All Tenera fruit
purchased by Ukwa mill would be at a single price and will be coordinated
with prices at other Adapalm mills at Ohaji, Umuogo and Mbwasi. Tenera
fruit prices at Ekor mill would be coordinated with prices at other
Akwapalm mills. For the MCS, gross margin per hectare is N11.30 in Year 4
which rises to N38.91 in Year 7. This gross margin assumes he gets no
subsidy and excludes the cost of his labor. Comparative financial data
from the analysis of crop budgets per hectare are shown in the table below.
Annex 5-4 provides a more detailed analysis.
Investment and Financial Return
(per hectare)
-------1989 Naira--___
MCS             SDU
Total Investment 4 years                  874             1922
Return per ha per annum
at full production                      856            1930
Return per man day at full production   38.9              52.16
Return per man day averaged over
total production period                 28.6           55.3*
* Full production returns lower owing to recovery of inputs and services
costs (para 5.09).
5.09      Cost Recovery.  MCS extension costs would be taken as part of the
general extension system of the ADP. SDU extension costs would be incor-
porated with NES costs in determining a basic FFB purchase price which
would be in tandem with the prevailing market price. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the cost of services and inputs provided by
Adapalm and Akwapalm to SDU farmers would be recovered through deductions



- 39 -
from the basic FFB purchase price paid to SDU farmers. These deductions
would approximate to 20 percent of gross revenue (see Annex 5-4).
5.10      Profitability of Harvesting WPG.  At current relative prices, the
financial incentives to harvest WPG are attractive only if modern proces-
sing methods with extraction rates of 9 percent are used. The low extrac-
tion rate at 6 percent of traditional methods, gives a return of N15.75 per
ton of FFB. With modern processing however, the return rises to N46.75.
If palm oil prices rise to well above the current level of N2400, or that
the cost of harvesting and carrying falls well below current level, then
harvesting WPG for traditional processing could become more attractive.
The return to the owner if computed on a per MD basis, is very low for oil
processed using traditional methods. The return per MD rises from N1.3 to
N3.9 if modern processing is used instead. (See Annex 5-4 for details.)
At current relative price levels, modern processing methods are needed to
make harvesting attractive. A shortage of modern processing capacity is
inhibiting the exploitation of WPG. Although FFB on WPG are virtually
free, harvesting and converting fruit into oil is not. Conversion requires
investment in more efficient technologies, which involves the use of scarce
resources namely, foreign exchange, credit, technical and managerial
skills.
5.   Project Benefits and Risks.
5.11      Project benefits are in two areas, namely increased production of
palm oil and processed rubber and reduced costs of production. The in-
creased production will materialize in the short to medium run through
investment in processing capacities financed under the PS component,
through new plantings and the Ukwa and Ekor mills. The estimated contribu-
tion from the above investments is 70,000 tons of palm oil and 20,000 tons
of processed rubber. In the longer term (beyond 1995), there will be
increased fruit from high-yielding Tenera, with peak production of oil
estimated at 110,000 tons (see Annex 5-2). Cost of producing one ton of
palm oil will fall from an average of US$417 (using Dura and traditional
methods) to an average of US$233-340/ton (using Tenera and modern methods).
Cost of production in East Asia ranges from US$200-250/ton.
5.12      There are three types of risks, namely policy reversal with
respect to the trade and incentive framework, severe tightening of credit
resulting in higher domestic interest rates, and sustainability of good
management for Adapalm and Akwapalm beyond the project years. Since the
project is operating at the micro level, it cannot effectively reduce the
risks from the macro factors. The sensitivity analysis, however, shows
that the viability of the project can withstand substantial delay in
benefits or increase in costs. The ERR drops from 21 percent in the base
case to 15 percent if there is a three-year lag in benefits or a 50 percent
increase in costs. Higher interest rates may slow down uptake of PS loans
but given the attractive financial returns ranging from 18 - 50 percent,
there wJould still be substantial private sector response. In addition,
Adapalm proposes to restructure its equity and bring in some private
capital, a move which is likely to assist in the preservation of good



- 40 -
management, which they have had for more than ten years. Akwapalm's
initiative in engaging private management on its own accord also provides
some reassurance.
6.   Environmental Effects
5.13      The project would establish tree crops in lands used for shifting
cultivation. Establishment of leguminous cover crops in NES and SDU farms
would increase fertility and reduce erosion. The small quantities of
chemicals used to control pests and diseases would not have any significant
adverse effects on the environment and would be continually reviewed in the
context of the Bank's position on their ufe from time to time. The NES
mills at Ukwa and Ekor would incorporate a palm oil mill effluent (POME)
treatment facility which, over a three-year operating period, would be
capable of meeting the standards adopted in Malaysia which has taken the
lead in this atea, and these are as follows:
BOD, 3-day, 30 degrees C             100 mg/l
Suspended solids                     400 mg/l
Oil and grease                        50 mg/l
Ammoniacal nitrogen                  100 mg/l
Total nitrogen                       200 mg/l
pH                                   6.5 - 7.5
Temperature                          45 degrees C
Mills constructed under PS financ.ng would comply with the following:
(a)  that all mills of a capacity of more than one ton/hr. would in
their appraisal have a specific assessment of the possible
adverse effects of POME discharge and measures included in the
sub-project that would control its impact on the environment;
(b)  that all mills above a capacity of 3 tons/hr. would incorporate a
POME treatment system that initially would keep BOD at 2500 mg/l
and pH at 6.5 - 7.5 and within 5 years comply to the standards
required of Ukwa NES mill.
New crumb rubber factories' discharged effluent would have BOD levels below
500 and 150 mg/l for latex and dry rubber plants respectively with pH
levels of 6.5 - 7.5.
VI. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Assurances and Agreements Obtained at Negotiations
(a)  MEU, Adapalm, Akwapalm, NIFOR and PBs would exercise proper
control over the preparation of SOE and supporting documentation
would be retained for review by auditors and Bank staff (para.
4.24);



- 41 -
(b) Adapalm, Akwapalm, NIFOR and MEU would have project accounts,
special accounts and SOE, audited by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank and submit the audited annual accounts to the
Bank not later than six months from the end of their financial
year (para. 4.26);
(c) Adapalm, Akwapalm, NIFOR and MEU would submit annual budgets to
their respective boards or Government for approval and the Bank
for information at least one month prior to the start of the
financial year (para. 4.26);
(d) PBs would maintain separate accounts for loans under the PS and
provide the Bank with annual status reports on borrowers and such
other information as the Bank, CBN and the FDARD may reasonably
request (para. 4.26);
(e) PBs would furnish the Bank an annual report prepared by indepen-
dent auditors within six months of the close of their financial
year (para. 4.26);
(f) MEU would prepare a project completion report on all project
components for submission to the Bank not later than six months
after project closing (para. 4.26);
(g) Oil palm seedlings at MCS nurseries would be sold at a minimum
price equivalent to 60 percent of full cost in 1989, 75 percent
in 1990, 85 percent in 1991, and 100 percent thereafter (para.
4.28);
(h)  The Imo and Akwa Ibom State Governments would continue to support
Adapalm and Akwapalm, respectively, as autonomous and efficient
operations, and the State Governments would inform the Bank prior
to making any changes in the composition of the Boards of Adapalm
and Akwapalm, and Adapalm and Akwapalm making any new investments
or commitments to investments and capital expenditure additional
to those in this project; would ensure that any person appointed
to the position of General Manager/Managin, Director of
Adapalm/Akwapalm has qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Bank; and would consult the Bank prior to Adapalm and
Akwapalm signing and making major changes in the management con-
tract with a private estate management organization (para. 4.30);
(i)  The Imo and Akwa Ibom State Governments would assume the foreign
exchange risk for SDU costs incurred by Adapalm and Akwapalm
(para. 4.31);
(j) NIFOR would sell its oil palm seeds and seedlings at full cost
with effect from 1990 and 1991, respectively (para. 4.33);
(k) Other than for Adapalm and Akwapalm, the FGN and the Imo and Akwa
Ibom State Governments would not provide budgetary support to



- 42 -
their parastatal plantations, except for minority interest
capitalization or financial restructuring in connection with
divestiture to the private sector (para. 4.34);
(1)  The FGN would assume the foreign exchange risk in the case of
borrowers whu opt to incur liability in Naira for PS financing
(para. 4.38); and
(m)  Adapalm and Akwapalm would, as from January 1, 1990 purchase FFB
at prevailing market prices at all their mills and recover SDU
costs through deductions from the prices paid to SDU farmei;s
(para. 5.09).
6.02      Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a)  Adapalm and Akwapalm would have signed for the period of the
project a management contract with a private estate management
organization (para. 4.30);
(b)  FGN has concluded with the Imo and Akwa Ibom State Government a
subsidiary loan agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 4.32);
(c)  Imo and Akwa Ibom State Governments have deposited with an SDU
project bank account of Adapalm and Akwapalm an amount equivalent
to the estimated SDU expenditure for the first six months of the
project (para. 4.32).
6.03      Conditions of Disbttrsement would be:
(a)  Imo and Akwa Ibom State Governments have each signed with Adapalm
and Akwapalm, respectively, an agreement with terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank, for the management of the SDU
services and input supply program (para. 4.29);
(b)  The appointment by the Imo and Akwa Ibom S ite Governments of the
respective SDU Selection Committees (para. 4.29);
(c)  The finalization by Adapalm and Akwapalm and Imo and Akwa Ibom
State Governments of a model agreement satisfactory to the Bank
for the provision of services and inputs to farmers participating
in the monocrop oil palm smallholders program (para. 4.29);
(d)  Imo and Akwa Ibom State Governments have each signed a loan
agreement with Adapalm and Akwapalm, respectively, with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.30);
(e)  FGN has concluded with the PBs a subsidiary loan agreement for PS
financing with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.34); and



- 43 -
(f) PBs have the expertise necessary in oil palm and rubber lending
operations in their agricultural lending departments (para.
4.34).
6.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a loan of US$106.0 million to the Federal Government of
Nigeria at the Bank's variable interest rate for twenty-two years including
a grace period of seven years.
AF4AG
2/28/89



44-                                Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
Key Features of the Agricultural Sector
Unit     1974-76 Av.        1985
1. Population a/
Total (growth rate)                     Million  74.9 (2.5)  96.7 (3.3)
Rural as 2 Totai                            2            81.8           77
Rural Families                            '000         10,211       12,700
2. Economic Review
GDP/Head of Total Population                $             521          794
Agric. GDP/Head of Rural
Population                                 $             173          360
Agric. GDP as 2 of Total                    2              24           35
3.  Land Use a/
Land Area c/                             sq.km.     910,770      910,700
Forest                                  '000 ha      16,357       14,000
Perennial Crops                         '000 ha        2,497        2,535
Annual Crops                            '000 ha       27,503       27,900
of which: Area Irrigated a/            '000 ha           18           32
69-71 Av. = 100
4. Outputs
Root Crops                                                104           87
Sorghum                                     n             100           86
Millet                                                    111          109
Groundnut (in shell)                        n              23           32
Livestock
Cattle                                                   100          108
Sheep/Goats                                              109          124
Poultry                                    n             107          199
Pigs                                       n             113          163
Cereal Production/Head of
Total Production                                          90          104
Cereal/Head of Rural Population             n              92          105
5. Inputs
Fertilizer                             '000 tons          124         n.a.
Pesticides                           '000 liters         n.a.         n.a.
Tractors a/                                units        7,500       10,000



-45 -                              Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
6. Trade a/
Total Exports                              $ mn       9,312       12,566
of which:
Agricultural Products                    Z               5           3
of which:
Cocoa and Products                     Z             68           75
Rubber                                 Z              6            7
Palm Producer (Kernels, Oil)           Z             14            3 d/
Total Imports a/                           $ mn       5,670        8,890
of which:
Agricultural Products                    Z               8          10
of which:
Cereals and Preparation                Z             38           61
Sugar and Honey                        Z             23         n.a.
Dairy Products and Eggs                Z             19         n.a.
Agricultural Inputs                      z               2        n.a.
7. Government Expenditures b/
Total Recurrent Budget                     $ mn       2,040        8,400
of which:
Agriculture                              Z               1           1
Total Capital Budget                       $ mn       5,332        4,077
of which:
Agriculture                              Z               2        11.9
a/ Data for 1984 only.
b/ Federal Government only.
c/ Remaining land area is under permanent pasture and other land use.
d/ Kernels only.
Data Sources: (i) FAO Production, Fertilizer and Trade Yearbooks;
(ii) Nigeria Country Economic Memo (June 1987); (iii) Nigeria Agricultural
Pricing Policy Report (October 1984); (iv) Review of Public Expenditure
Program in Nigeria (October 1985); (v) EPD Data Bank; and (vi) WAlDA's Key
Indicator Table of 1/86.
(annexl)



Annex 3
- 46 -               Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
OIL PALM AND RUBBER
PUBLIC ESTATE SECTOR
The Size of the Public Sector
1.        The public sector is dominant in terms of ownership and manage-
ment of the more modern section of the oil palm and rubber subsector. In
oil palm, the public sector has 70,000 ha. of estates, most of which are
under improved varieties. The total area in oil palm smallholdings under
improved varieties is estimated at 90,000 ha. In rubber, public sector
owns roughlv 29,000 ha. of existing estates while private medium and large
estates cover 36,000 ha. Most of these are under high-yielding clones.
Private smallholdings account for 190,000 ha but very few of these are
under high-yielding clones and substantial areas have been destroyed by
fire or abandoned. Thus public sector owns 43 per cent of total cultivated
hectarage under improved oil palm, and 45 per cent under improved rubber.
Estimates of hectarage under smallholdings for both oil palm and rubber are
best guesses, these percentages must be interpreted as broadly indicative
rather than precise. In oil palm, the public estates are mainly in Cross
River, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Imo, Ondo and Bendel states. In rubber, Bendel
and Cross River are the main states. These states account for 69 per cent
of total hectarage under estate.
The Performance of the Public Estates
2.        With few exceptions, yields in public estates are well below
potential. In oil palm, the exceptions are Adapalm Limited, in Imo state
and Risonpalm in Rivers state. Yields reach 12 and 14 tons FFB/ha in the
Ohaji estate of Adapalm and in Risonpalm respectively. In the others,
recorded yields average 2-3 tons FFB/ha., because of poor management,
pilferage, lack of transport and milling capacity.  These are r   iuch
higher than the yields from the Dura of wild palm groves (WPG). Table 1 on
Potential Improved Production from Rehabilitation of Existing Estates shows
the differences between actual and potential on maior public estates.
Expected yields after successful rehabilitation could double current
levels. Even these expected yields are well below the peak potential of
12-14 tons FFB/ha which could have been realized if they had been better
managed from the start. Yields on rubber estates are also well below
potential, despite favorable climate and soils and despite the fact that
they have been planted with high yielding clones. Many trees are over 25
years old, were poorly maintained, suffered extensive damage during the
Civil War, were practically abandoned until recently. The average yield
estimates are .6 to 1.0 ton/ha. Table 2 on Existing Rubber Estates:
Management and Average Yields is an overview of estate sector, including
estates owned by major private companies, namely Michelin, Pamol, and
United Africa Company Nigeria.



_ 417 _Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
Policy of Privatization and Commercialization of Public Enterprises
3.        Improved performance of public estates calls for a long term
process of basic restructuring. A basic objective of the Government's
current policy of privatization and commercialization is to increase the
efficiency and overall performance of public enterprises (PE). The process
however, is likely to be long and demanding. Successful privatization
and/or commercialization demands clear direction from the Federal Govern-
ment of Nigeria (FGN), its sustained commitment, flexibility in the ap-
proaches used, openness and transparency with the private sector and the
general public, professionalism and high levels of technical competence on
the part of those involved. What is called for is not simply a general
direction but political consensus, implementation capacity, and the careful
working out of specific modalities for each estate. The history of the
Nigerian public enterprise sector is filled with reports calling for
greater public enterprise autonomy, greater financial discipline, less
intervention by ministries, and a central agency for monitoring and evalu-
ating PE. Unless a detailed implementation program is developed, current
efforts may also fare poorly.
4.        Such a program would have to address a number of difficult
institutional and a technical issues. A major institutional issue is FGN's
basic concern that the process of privatization should ensure widespread
share ownership so as to diffuse ethnic and social tensions. The problem
is that this social objective may seriously conflict with the efficiency
objective. The latter may require a majority share by a specific group,
which then has a big stake in basic improvements in the enterprise.
Another major one is the inability of supervising ministries to develop
clear systems of responsibility, accountability and performance indicators
for parastatals. A particularly difficult one is the reduction in the
labor force of a company to be restructured. For each parastatal, it is
essential to work out the details in terms of what techniques to use: e.g.
public offering of shares, private sale of shares, lease and management
contracts, and how to phase or sequence different actions.
5.        Commercialization has also been proposed to improve parastatal
management, but this too is problematic. The task is to create an overall
institutional framework and incentive structure within which efficiency
pays. One relatively simple technique which is proposed in this project is
the use of management contracts. The choice of the management firm used is
crucial to the success of the arrangement. A management contract repre-
sents a cost and funding is likely to be a problem. With one or two
exceptions, sustainable good performance of public estates is unlikely to
happen even with the use of private managing agents as both state and
federal governments are often unable to provide the required funds to
rehabilitate the estates and construct processing facilities. Even if the
funds were available, there is uncertainty as to whether private managing
agents would be used permanently. The best solution is to transfer owner-
ship to the private sector, but this approach is also fraught with politi-
cal and other problems.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
6.        Revitalization of the public sector through privatization is the
long term solution to the low productivity of commercially oriented public
investments. In the medium term however, good management has to be pur-
chased and this is the approach adopted in this project. This project
deals directly with Adapalm Limited and Akwapalm Industries and indirectly
with other parastatals through the financing of private sector processing
sub-projects. Adapalm/Akwapalm's participation in this project will
require a satisfactory management contract for the 5-year project, which
for Adapalm would mean continuous private management since since 1975.
Access to the PS financing will require developing divestiture or leasing
plans, satisfactory to the main participating banks and the Bank. There is
no way the project can guarantee good management of public estates beyond
the project years, but it has chosen to finance Adapalm because of its
record of hiring good private management for the past 18 years and Akwapalm
because it has acquired private management and some private investment on
its own accord.
Major Objectives of Proposed Donor Involvement
7.        The major objective of this project is increasing production and
productivity of an import substitute in which Nigeria has comparative
advantage. The increased production will necessarily generate increased
incomes, employment and consumption. The objective is not privatization
per se. Institution building in the estate sector would require a differ-
ent project and a different time frame. One would have to start with an
inventory of the most important parastatals in the sector to restructure on
the basis of agreed criteria for selection. This project however, recog-
nizes the importance of increasing private sector involvement in the
sector; hence it requires privatization plans as conditions for access to
the PS financing. For Adapalm and Akwapalm, it requires a management
contract. The project is also providing technical assistance to all
participating institutions: parastatals, banks, the MEU.
8.        The European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Development
Fund (EDF) are also launching a major investment program in the oil palm
belt, with a similar approach of complementing direct production invest-
ments with managerial and technical support.   The total investment pro-
posed for Phase I is approximately US$ 81 millian spread over 1988-1993.
Investments in direct production include reclamation and development of the
Yenagoa Delta in Rivers state; development of social and economic infra-
structure; rehabilitation of estates, mills and infrastructure, planting
and fruit collection programs; construction of mills and refineries. To
complement these investments in hardware, the EIB is also financing manage-
ment support to nucleus estates, some smallholder schemes, wild grove and
smallholder collection units ifi five states. In addition, US$ 11 million
from EDF will be allocated on a grant basis to various levels of training
and research based on universities and research institutes (see Table 3
Summary of Oil Palm Belt Program).



ANNEX 3
TABLE 1
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
POTENTIAL IMPROVED PRODUCTION FROM REHABILITATION OF EXISTING OIL PALM PLANTATIONS
------------------------------------------------------------__--------------
PRESENT    I   PRESENT    I  EXPECTED    I  EXPECTED    I INCREASE IN
I               I              I    YIELD     I PRODUCTION   I    YIELD        PRODUCTION   I PRODUCTION
STATE    I   PROJECT      I  HECTARES    I  T/FFB/HA    I  T/FFS/HA    I  T/FFS/HA    I    T/FFB    I    T/FFB        |
CROSS RIVER     C.R.A.D.C.   I        13000 1          2.8 I        38400 1           7.0 1        91000 1        546o0
IAYIP EKU/O8AN            S 50401         2.81          140001           5.S1         275001          13500
IUO     I  IMP A.D.C.   I          16001           2.0           32001            5.0           80001          48001
BENDEL    I   B.O.P.C.    I          60001           2.81         18800!            6.1          380401         19200 1
I    PRESCO     |         10001           3.01           3000|           6.51          65001           35001
ONDO     I   O.O.P.C.               W S0001         3.0!         270001            7.01         63000!         38000!
I  ORE-IRELE    I         30001           2.61           7S001           7.0          210001          13SOO0
I               I        ssc38o6          2.8          1079001           6.6!        2530001         144300|
SOURCE: FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR A CREDIT LINE FOR OIL PALM AND RUBBER PROJECTS IN NIGERIA.
MAIN REPORT. P. 61. BY SOCFINCO FOR THE FEDERAL MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, WATER
RESOURCES AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT. NOVEMBER 1987.
(FILE NAME: POTENTIA.WKI)



- 50 -
Annex a
Table 2
Existing Rubber Plantations: Manaasment and Average Yields
State     Estates (ha)  Ownership/Management         Average      Comments
Yields
Planted and                                T/ha
available
unplanted
1.  Ogun      Ilushin        Ogun State Govt.             1.0         Fire damage.  Poor maintenance.
2,100         Nijal Management Co.                     Over 26 years old.
Waterside     Joint Venture: Ogun          1.0
1,430         State and Mr. Kolim,
Undeveloped   Nijal Management Co.
2,070
2.  Ondo      Araromi        Ondo State Govt.                         86 years old.  Abandoned for many
8,900                                                  years, until recently.
Undeveloped
300
3.  Bendel    Uhronigbe      Plantations Integrated       .76         Mostly 33 year. old.
2,400         Ltd.
Atochi                                     .89
1,000
Osse River    Michelin Nigeria Ltd.        .9          Badly damaged.  26-30 years old.
1,600         Shareholders:                            Rehabilitation has recently
Michelin 51%                             started; replanting also.
Utagba Uno    Bendel State 49%
1,700
Sapele        Pamol - Sxpole               .6          27 years old.
1,700         Owned by United Africa
Company, Nigeria UACO
4.  Imo       Obilti         Agricultural Development   ?             Extensive fire damage.  20-30 years
1,777         Corporation (ADC) of                     old.
Available     Imo State
1,000
Emeabiam
783
Available
869
Amaeke - Abam
689
Available
1298
Ndioji - Abam
626
Available
197
Total planted
3,274
Available
3.362
S.  Rivers    Delta          Rivers State Govt.           ?           Extensive areas destroyed by the civil
3,538                                                  war.  Neglected for many years.
Available                                              Effective tapping area 60% of area
3.237                                                  planted.  Tapping resumed only recently.



- 51 -
8.  Cross     Cslobar        United Africa Company,       1 - 1.3     20-30 years old.
rve-     4,460          Nigeria
Available
2,000
Planted       CREL owned by Cross          .6 - 1.0    Extensive fire damage and root disease
9,060         River Stat. Govt.                        on many *states.
Available
26,050
Source: Feasibility Study for a Credit Line for Oil Palm and Rubber Projects in Nigeria. Vol II,
Annex III, by SOCFINCO. December 1987. Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Wator Resources
Rural Development. Federal Republic of Nigeria.
1/ Note: Publicly owned existing plantations = 30,047 ha.
Total area available for plantation development = 72,858 ha.
(FILE NAME: b:rubber.txt)



ANNEX 3
TABLE 3
SUMMARY OF OIL PALM BELT PROGRAM
I                                                  I                                           I                                            I      MAIN        I FUNDING  I
STATE/SUB-PROGRAM                    IPLANTATIONS  - SMALLHOLDINGS                       IINDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENTS                      IINFRASTRUCTURES                             I INVESTMENT  lECU 0OO'Si
II                                                                                             I                                            I    PERIOD        I             I
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
RIVERS                                IPlanting of:                                      lErection  of a 20 t/hr  mill               ILand-reclamation works                      11988-1998    10,737            I
Yenagoa Delta                        lIndustrial  estate: 4,600 ha                       Icompleted  in 1993                         IPlantation  and mill-related                I                  1(25%)        I
13mallholders: 2.600 ha                            I                                           IFood crop farm                              I                  I             I
I                                                  I                                           ISocial  infrastructures                     I                  I             I
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
IMO                                  IPhase  1 consolidation with                        11 new boiler  for Ohaji mill               IConstruction  of adequate                   11988-1990         118,288       I
Adapalm Nig. Ltd.                    Itechnical  support                                 12 down  stream processing                  linfrastructures for                                            I (91)        I
I                                                  IRefinery  of 60 t/day                       Irefinery staff                             I                  I             I
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
AKWA-IBOM                            ISmallholder collection                             IConstruction  of 4 mills                   lConstruction  of adequate                   11988-1992         157,003       1
Fruit collection                     IRoad unit                                          lof 20 t/hr each                            linfrastructures for                         1                  1(281)
processing A  refinery               I                                                   IRefinery of  120 t/day                     Irefinery  staff                             I                 I
-------------------------------------------------------------------------_                                _-- __-----------------------------------------------------------------_                              --
ONDO                                 IRohabilitation  of  11,000  ha                     IRehabilitation of mills                    ITransport  infrastructures                  11988-1991  i    8,S60            r
Okitipupa  Oil  Palm                 lof existing  plantations                           I                                           Ijet'lies  and ferry                         I                 I (40)
Company                              ISmallholder collection                             I                                           I                                            I                                I
iRoad unit                                         I                                           I                                            I
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__---------------------------------------------------------------------
BENDEL                               IRehabilitation  of estates                         lErection  of mill  at Cowan                iRehabilitation of existing                  11988-1991         1 4,515       1
The Oil  Palm Company                IReplanting of  2.813 ha                            1(4 t/hr)                                   linfrastructures                             I                 I (21)         1
ISmalIholder collection scheme                     I                                           I                                            I                  I             I
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__---------------------------------------------------------------------
RIVERS                               iCompletion of  planting program                    lErection of  a 20 t/hr mill                lIncrease  of  infrastructures               11988-1990         119,784       I
Elele Risonpalm estate               IReplanting of  2.600 ha                            Icompleted  in 1990                         Ifor administration  and mill                I                  1(101)        I
lWild Palm Grove collection                        I                                           I                                            I                  I             I
BENDEL                               IPlanting of 2.475  ha of                           lErection of a 20 t/hr mill                 lIncrease of  infrastructures                11988-1990         113,900       I
Okomu  Oil  Palm Company             inew plantings                                      Icompleted  in 1990                         If-  administration  and mill                I                  I (7X)        I
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__---------------------------------------------------------------------
Monitoring A evaluation              ICoordination of  plantation  works                 ICoordination of  industrial                INo  investment  proposed                    11988-1992         I 6,879       I
I                                                  lworks and tenders                          I                                            I                  1 (4)         1
Social  and economic                 I                                                   I                                           ISchools,  clinics,  water  and              11988-1992         111,430       1
infrastructure                       I                                                  I                                            lelectricity,  roads                         I                 I (6%)         I
Training,  research and              I                                                   I                                           lIntervention  in agriculture                11988-1992         110,474       I
university  linkage                  I                                                   I                                           Ifisheries and the environment  I                               I (51)        I
(FILE-----------------------------------AME---------------------------__-----__------------------------------T--------------------------------------
(FILE NAME:PALMBELT.WK1)



ANNEX 4-1
TABLE 1
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
PLANTING PROGRAM
________________
I YEAR   I NUCLEUS I  SDU   I  MCS   I TOTAL
I        IESTATE 1/l         l  2/    l
____________.._____________________________________________________
PROJECT YEAR 1     19891    14001    12001    40001    6600
PROJECT YEAR 2     19901    20001    13001    70001   103001
PROJECT YEAR 3 I   1991 I    2000 1   1500 1   8000    11500 l
PROJECT YEAR 4     19m21      8001    20001    80001   108001
PROJECT YEAR5      19931      800B    3000      8000    118001
TOTAL.    I        I   7000 I   9000 I  3S000 I  51000
NOTE
1/ = NUCLEUS ESTATE : 1000 HA PL%NTED PRIOR TO PROJECT START
2/ = TO OBTAIN MONOCROP EQUIVALENT REDUCE BY 60X
(FILE NAME: PLANTING.WK1)                                                                          tn
LO



ANNEX 4-1
TABLE 2
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
NUCLEUS ESTATE - PHASING OF DEVELOPMENT (HA)
I   19891    19901    1991        19921    19931    1994        19951    1998j    1997
PLANTING YEAR O UKWA     I    4001    10001    10001        800S1     800S1           o
EKOR     I   10001    10001    1000D1           1         |         |                   |         |
PLANTING YEAR 1 UKWA     11000 1/       4001    10001    10001        8001      800S
EKOR     I         I   10001    10001    1000
PLANTING YEAR 2 UKWA     I         I   1000 |    400 I   1000 |   1000           800 t    800 S        I
EKOR     I         I        I   10001    10001    1000              I
PLANTING YEAR 3 UKWA     I         I        I   10001       4001    10001    10001        800S1     800S
EKOR     I         I        I         I   10001    10001    1000
MATURE YEARLY UKWA       I         I        I         I   10001       4001    10001    10001        800S      800S
EKOR       I         I        I         j         I   10001    10001    1000
MATURE CUMULATIVE UKWA   I        I         I         I         I   14001    24001    34001    4200          m0001
EKOR   I         I        I         I         I   10001    20001        0001    3000 1    30001
I        I         I         I         I         I         I         I         I         I 
1/ 1000 HA PLANTED PRIOR TO PROJECT START
(fILE NAME: SDU.WK1)
(A3S.U72)



ANNEX 4-1
TABLE 3
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
SDU - PHASING OF DEVELOPMENT (HA)
1989)    1990      1991     1992      19931    1994      19961    1996B    1997
I~ ---     ---       ---       ---       *-l   ---          ---      ---       ---
PLANTING YEAR O UKWA    I    7001    800|   1000B    1000    100O                I         I        I
PLANTING YEAR 1 UKWA    I         |    700)      800)    1000B    1000       100) O  |0
EKOR                             B  500  5o00)  5001   1000So  150001       I         I 
PLANTING YEAR 2 UKWA    |         I        I    700)       800)    1000)    1000       1500) SO|
EKOR                                       S o o 500  600)    S00)    1000)    1500) l
PLANTING YEAR3 UKWA     I         I        I         1    700 1    800 1    1000)1   1000)    1500)
EKOR     I        I         I        I    500)       5 00)    5 00)    1000)   5lO)
MATURE YEARLY UKWA      I         I        I         I         I    700       800Bo    1000     1000      1500)
EKOR                                                   S W       S o 500)  500)  SOO5    1000  1500)
UATIIE CUMULATIVE UKWA   I        I        I         I         I        I   1500 I   2600 )   3500 I   5000
EKOR   )        I         I         I        I         I   10001    1500)    2600)    4000
(FILE NAME: SDU.WK1)
(Al. U34)



ANNEX 4-1
TABLE 4
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
MIXED CROPS SMALLHOLDERS - PHASING OF DEVELOPMENT
-------------------------------------------------
---------------------------__------------------------------------------------__--------------------------__--------
I     19891        19901        1991  I      19921        19931        19941        19951        1998B        19971
PLANTING YEARO                   I     40001        70001        80001        80001       80001                I            I            I            I
PLANTING YEAR 1                  I                  4000|        7000         8000        80001         80001 |                          I
PLANTING YEAR 2                  I                        I      4000|        70001        80001        80001        80001               I            I
PLANTING YEAR 3                  I            I           I             |     40001        70001        80001        8000         8000 |
I           I            I             i           I             I            I            I            I            I
MATURE YEARLY                   I            I            I            I            I     40001         70001        80001        80001        8000
MATURE CUMULATIVE               |            I            I            I            I            I   11000         19000        270001       360001
(FILE NAME: SDU.WK1)
(A73.U99)



- 57 -
Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
Private Sector Processing Subprojects
Financed Through Commercial and Merchant Banks
1.        In December 1987 the MEU and the Bank's Resident Mission in Lagos
carried out a survey of demand for loans for tree crops projects. 19 out
of 34 banks responded and 16 provided data on existing loan applications.
Loan requests totalled N955 million (or US$225 million). Even after allow-
ing for double-listing, this data indicates a good level of demand for tree
crop financing. In March 1988 four of the banks showing the largest loan
demand supplied more specific information on private firms' requests for
loans solely for palm oil and rubber processing and supporting activities,
which in summary is as follows:
United Bank of Africa                $17.0 million
ICON Limited                          62.5 million
Continental Merchant Bank             12.5 million
NAL Merchant Bank                     27.5 million
$119.5 million
Some of this demand would be taken up before the Bank's financing becomes
effective. Part of the demand could go to the Private Small and Medium
Enterprises Project.  Taking these into account and the SOCFINCO Study 1/
it is estimated that US$50 million would be a reasonable estimate of
Processing Subproject financing over a commitr.ment period of 2 yeaLs.
2.        It is estimated that the US$50 million would be utilized as fol-
lows:
Total Cost          LOG Financing
----------$ million-------------
Palm Oil Mills                52.2                   35.0
Rubber Factories              14.4                     9.5
Haulage and Manu-              8.4                     5.5
facturing Equipment           ----                   ----
75.0                   50.0
Since the December 1987 survey showed many applications were related to
small to medium-sized plantations, it was assumed that the biggest demand
1/   "Feasibility Study for a Credit Line for Oil Palm and Rubber Projects
in Nigeria", November 1987.



- 58 -                Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 2
would be in the area of mills with capacities of 3 tons/hr and below.
Furthermore, independent mill operators without their own plantations are
unlikely to invest in large mills because of the high cost, e.g. N25
million for a 10 t/hr mill. It was, thus, assumed that large mills would
be confined to large corporate entities or privatized government planta-
tions. Four mills of 10 t/hr and 56 mills of 1-3 tons per hour capacities
were included in the demand.
3.        An analysis of profitability of various sizes of palm oil mills
is given in Table 1 below.
Table 1. Financial and Economic Rates of Return
For Palm Oil Mills of Various Sizes
Capacity (tlhr)           FRR Z        ERR Z   1988 Cost
o000 Naira
0.5 (low technology)       18            18        540
1.0 (low technology)       21            20        750
1.5 (high technology)      25            25      3,000
2.0 (low technology)       27            26      1,800
3.0 (high technology)      24            24      7,000
10.0 (high technology)      20            20    25,400
20.0 (high technology)      23            22    39,000
In respect of rubber it is assumed that the demand for new construction
would be in existing plantations which would establish 5 new lines for
crumb (block) rubber at 10 tjday capacity each. 15 existing factories in
various states of disrepair would be rehabilitated to provide an average of
2 tlday additional capacity each, most of these being either sheet or
creping units. A 10 t/day crumb factory costing N6.5 million (1988) has a
FRR of 50 per cent and an ERR of 60 per cent.
4.        Provision is also made to finance haulage and agricultural
equipment which is likely to be needed to support the operation of
processing facilities. Equipment for haulage of raw materials and output
and for maintenance or improvement of plantations from which the raw
material is sourced would be considered for financing together with a
processing facility. To encourage local fabrication, provision is made for
financing importation of materials and equipment for manufacturing of
equipment and spares for sale to oil palm and rubber processors. Already
one local company has formed a joint-venture to manufacture and fabricate
palm oil mill equipment. At least one other local company is being
approached for a similar arrangement by another European-based
organization.



- 59 -
Annex 4-3
Page 1 of 4
NTGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
Scope of Studies on Oil Palm Smallholder Farming Systems
1.        A series of studies would be undertaken to learn more about the
role of Tenera oil palm plantings in the farming systems of Southern
Nigeria. The assumption behind this recommendation is that with better
information about farm conditions and requirements it will be possible for
state Governments to design more cost-effective programs of assistance to
Tenera smallholders.
2.        Objectives.  The overall purpose of the studies is to assist
Nigeria to once again become self-sufficient in palm oil on the basis of
efficient economic production. Greater knowledge of the farmer's total
position will give policy-makers the information they need to design
realistic and effective programs to assist outgrowers. A better sense of
the type of farmer that has made a success of oil palm culture in the
recent past should enable programs to be designed with a sharper focus on
candidates for future expansion and their needs for agronomic advice,
technical support, inputs, labor and credit.
3.        Responsibility.  The MEU will take the lead in formulating and
commissioning these studies, in close consultation with professionals at
NIFOR and academics from the universities in the region. Although some MEU
and other Government personnel may be associated with these studies, the
surveys would be carried out by independent contractors from universities,
research institutes or private consultancies. It is not intended that all
possible questions would be addressed in one grand survey but rather that a
series of somewhat narrowly defined and geographically limited studies
will, over time, answer the major questions concerning oil palm development
-- questions which themselves will change, at least in terms of emphasis
and priority, from time to time and area to area.
Issues to be Considered
4.        Profile of State-Sponsored Smallholder Tenera Planting Programs
(SSSTP). What kinds of farmers have participated in past SSSTP programs
state by state? An estimated 100,000 ha of Tenera have been planted, much
of it in Akwa-Ibom, Anambra, Cross River, Imo and Rivers States. What are
the characteristics of participating farmers in terms of (i) total hectar-
age available, the number, areas and location of plots; (ii) hectarage
under food crops, tree crops, other permanent crops, fallow, etc.; (iii)
ages of tree crops and other perennial plantings, (iv) other hectarage
which might be available for expansion of Tenera or other uses; (v) nu-mber
of family members; (vi) non-farm economic activities of family member:;
(vii) approximate production of various crops in each of the last th de
years and disposal of each (i.e., how much held for family consumption,
sold directly in the market, sold through middlemen, processed into garri,



- 60 -
Annex 4-3
Page 2 of 4
etc.; (viii) approximate annual income from each major type of crop and
from non-farm activities; (ix) use of hired labor (amount, tasks, season-
ality); (x) use and sources of credit, if any, in the last five years; (xi)
ownership of livestock and poultry; (xii) access to palm oil mills and
other processing facilities; and (xiii) other relevant facts.
5.        Prior to sampling recent (say, last five years) participants in
SSSTP programs, investigators would have to learn more about that universe
in order to structure thie sample appropriately. Is there one group of
fairly large-scale farmers with many hectares at their disposal, growing a
variety of crops, hiring much labor in addition to their own family inputs,
etc.? Is there another group of smaller operators? Are there any partici-
pants whose only farm property is in Tenera plantings? Are there some who
planLed on former food-crop land before it reverted to fallow and others
who cleared forest land to plant? The purpose of these preliminary inves-
tigations would be to ensure that all significant types of farmers are
appropriately included in the sample. Should the sample ensure that 20-30
percent of hectarage planted is represented or 10 percent of all partici-
pating farmers or both? (Initially, researchers may wish to list all
participating farmers by size of Tenera planting over a period of years
rather than in just one year) as well as by LGA and perhaps other parame-
ters, so as to ensure the sample finally drawn includes the same diversitv
of size, location and other critical factors as the universe it intends to
study.)
6.        Land Tenure, Tree Tenure and Other Socio-Economic Characteris-
tics. While some information on these topics will emerge from farm pro-
files, it would be useful to undertake separate studies concerned primarily
with specific topics, especially topics as complex as tenurial rights and
family relationships. Under which arrangements does the farmer have
harvest rights to wild palm trees? How many trees? How would the farmer
obtain permission to harvest more trees? If the farmer wanted to sell
these rights, would that be possible and, if so, how would one go about it?
If the farmer dies, who inherits wild grove rights? Are the rights the
same when owners are female as for ma? owners? How is fruit divided
between harvesters who climb the trees, farmers, and village leaders who
control rights to trees? Whose permission would a farmer need to cut
trees? To cut and plant annual food crops? To cut and replace wild palm
with Tenera? Similar questions would be asked about rights over Tenera
plantings. Is Tenera planting an effective way to increase the hectarage
over which the farmer has a substantial control? Does Tenera planting
result in rights to sell or lease or pass to heirs that are different from
"rights' to forest or fallow land? Does a Tenera stand become as much the
farmer's property as his compound with home and close-in garden?
7.        Male and Female Labor is another area that merits careful
research. What are all the sources and uses of labor in farm families
generally (control group) and Tenera farmers in particular (target group)?
What is the balance between the farmer hiring out for certain tasks and
hiring in to support work on certain other tasks? What is the seasoned
pattern of labor sources/uses? How does this seasonality (e.g., in the



- 61 -
Annex 4-3
Page 3 of 4
requirement to care for food crops) fit with the requirements for
clearing/planting, weeding/upkeep, and harvesting of Tenera? The studies
would need to distinguish between male and female labor as well as between
adults and children for each of the major tasks, including all steps of
food farming, tree crop culture, gathering fuelwood and water, processing
(by crop), marketing, household maintenance and repair, cooking, childcare,
etc. There is also a need to distinguish between (i) "core" household
activities that family members will insist on doing almost regardless of
cost, (ii) extra activities where it is worthwhile only if a certain level
of pay or profit is foreseen, and (iii) some other or optional or at least
postponable activities. The balance between "subsistence" and hired labor
may be important as between subsistence farming and production of tradeable
crops and/or surpluses. Labor studies will also establish the extent of
outmigration, be it for a few weeks a year in response to seasonal
opportunities or for many months or years at a time; surveyed families will
be asked who among present residents was working away from the area in
recent (say 5-10) years and who from the family is now working outside,
where they work, when they visit and how their income contributes to or
takes from the farm household, if at all.
8.        Ecology.  The issue here is to determine how oil palm fits into a
pattern of increasingly intensive cultivation. Does Tenera planting put
additional pressure on fallow lands and dangerously lower the time avail-
able for regeneration of soils? or is it simply part of a healthy trend
toward more permanent settled farming, providing income that is needed to
purchase inputs which are required to enrich the soils? Is it acceptable
to replace WPG with Tenera, thus getting higher output in terms of P0? By
contrast is it "dangerousu or counterproductive to put Tenera on former
food crop land, thus removing it from the food-fallow cycle? In what
circumstances is Tenera planting with intercropping and optimal manuring a
promising alternative both to fallow and to food cropping that is continued
too long on the plot?
9.        Comparative Profitability.  Another speciaL study, conducted with
a sub-sample of farms surveyed along the lines outlined in paras. 4 and 5,
would study comparative income and risks from various crops. Tenera may be
profitable in many farming systems but not as profitable as some other
options open to the farmer (or more risky). T'his analysis would overlap to
some extent with the study of comparative returns from various labor
options available to the farmer (para. 7 above). It would include a
careful comparison of returns and risks from high input vs. low input
approaches to Tenera cultivation; this comparison would be between results
from intensive input packages during the initial 4-year planting/immature
period (vs. less manuring, lower input options) as well as more careful
husbandry (e.g., regular pruning and additional maturing) in the mature
period (vs. more casual maintenance, less regular harvesting, etc.).
10.       Access to Processing.  This topic should be studied not solely in
terms of the distance between farm and mill but also from the point of view
of road conditions at various seasons and transport facilities (including
transport, collection services, middlemen, etc.). The study would aim to



- 62 -
Annex 4-3
Page 4 of 4
show how accessibility, in these various respects, affects farmers'
attitudes toward palm culture, willingness to invest in intensive
cultivation practices and plans to expand oil palm hectarage.
11.       Conclusion.  The objective of the studies would be to develop
better guidelines for future plantings of Tenera by determining:
(a) the best target areas for development from a combined ecological,
socio-economic and probable productivity (or yield) point of
view;
(b) the best package(s) of farm practices to be reconmmnded to each
major group of likely Tenera planters and what options they will
confront among viable packages of farming practice;
(c) the need for complementarity in extension, processing and rural
infrastructure programs; and
(d) what eventual total hectarage of WP and Tenera (and consequently
what PO production) each of the states can expect to attain as a
result of efficient oil palm development programs.



Annex 4-4
Table I
t$IGEMIA
TREE CROPS
Project Coaaonents b*  Year
Total  Inr,cluding Corntirxerncies                            Totals Includins Contingerucies
'NAIRA '000)                                                   (US$ '000)
1         2          3         4          5       Total        1         2         3        4         5      Total
===. === ==    === ==_.,== ==    = ===  =          === z   ===Z==== Z===_===z ======== === ===== =======c ===c=c===
A. L*WA NUCLEUS ESTATE   rLANTINC                 32,494.3  15#924.0  2,3'5.9  29,459.2  2'037.S 130i2?5.3   6)237.3  36583.5  3,802.0  4,713.5  3,.9S9.5  22.305,7
B. UNIUA HILL                                            -          -  21v906.4  46,315.6  13.S'5.4  82,117.3            -         -  3*725.6  7,410.5  2t118.2  13,254.3
C. UNJA -ALL:L1Er: IiEVELLOPrXNT UNIT              2,113.'  3,125.4   4,671.2   5,005.1   9,724.3  25,437.8          405.7    562.1    794.4    928.8  i.482.4   44173.4
B. ENOW  NUCLEUS ESTATE fLANTING                  16,999.9  15,528.7  1G,963.2  12'89.8  18,166.5  790940.1   3,262.9  29792.?  2,834.9  1,966,4  2,769.3  13,676&4
E. EKOGi fILL                                            -          -  21,16.4  47,121.2  13,32'.6  31.56L.2             -         -  35T1.2  7,5'9.4  2,031-0  13.161.7   c
F. ENOf SNALL;:OLlIEI. DEVCLOPMENT UNiT            1,844.8   2.122.4   2o632.2   4,70,4   8,212.4  19,682.2         354.1    381.7    447,7    779.3  1*251.9   3,214.6   W
G. NUCLEUS ESTATES-MANAGENENT rEE                  1971.1   1,195,0   3,271.E   565'2.1   6P156.?  J8,246.8          '78.3    214.9    556.4    904.3    938.5   2.992.6
H. MIXED CROPS-SfALUltOLIIERS                      3.012.1   6,850.8   9j449.5  ;i.043.7  13.2867  43,662,S          578.1  1,232.2  1,'07.1  1,70.2  2,0M.4   7.212.9
1. IONITOIGNG I EVALUATION UNIT                    6.54.?   31I68.1   3,250.7   2s917.3   Ila85.   a6,.206.3   1.263.9    569.        569.8    306.8    iEO.E   2.891.0
J. NIGERIAN INSTITuTE rOIk GILPALN RIESEARCi;    10,562.3      437.1           -         -          -  10,999.4  2,027.3        78.6        -         -         -   2.105.9
h. PROCESLING SUBPROJECTS                         27.0E2.5  57?590,1 107.'f:.0 176,110.4  85,t36.4 453,501.4   5,195.2 10,357.9 iB,245.2 28,177.7 13,023.8  75,002.8
ToLdl PI(0JECT COSTS                               102,667.5 109s94i.S 22,s99r'.9 '40,6'04.S 1975,427.7 9619640.5  19.705.S 19,77-37 36,224.3 54.49.5 29,790.8 159,991.4
ovenveer 30G  19B3  10:55



Annex 4-4
TabLe 2
lN]6EF1A
TREE CkOPS
Sumaaa Accmwt.t b* Year
Totals Including Cor,tir.ser..ciet,                            Totdlh I.CI'...i1r1s rCi1t1r,,',_'fL1
(NAIRA 'Oo.:                                                    (US$I 0Y'0)
I               3         4          S       Total         1        2         3         4        5       Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
BLUILDINGS                                         l3s200.0   1,789.5  '.8O05,4   2 487.7   is6.   .2o2.743.4   2,533.6    321.9    647.21   29B,3    2 2:.7   4,123.3
CIVIL VOIRKS                                       7o2,08.5         -   8*754.4  i9 261.6   3,516.7  38.741.3   1.30336             -  l'488.8  3.081.9    5,36. 1   6,490.4
VEHICLES                                            2,838.7      583.7      753.3   3 005.4   a.023.3   89C04.4        544.8    i05.0    12L.1    480.9    156.0   1,414.8
OTRER EQUIPMENT                                    2s461.0      902.9      3432.7     520.1       87.4   4.323.1      472.4    i62.4      5E.4      84.5      13.3      791.0
HEAVY EQUIPMENT I ASLIC MIACHINERY                20.5'18.4  10i165.  CP8871.12   0 780.4  10.919.4  599663.1   4,015.0  1,828.4  1,508.7  1A406,i  .c..4.5  10,422.3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                1,906.5   1.397.0   1,521.8            -          -   4,825.3      36S5.9    251.Z   _258.8                   -      876.0
NES-PLANTINI3                                      4.737.1   O.12n.3  10,043.1   ?.eC8,3   9,743,1  40s560.0          90T,2  i)462.1  i.700.0  i.242.I  z.488.3   6.82.??
SDU-r'LANTING                                       2)853.1   4,2'50.9   6,222.8   9.433.2  15p9C4.4  38,744.2         547.6    764.5  1,05E.3  1)509.3  2,436.6   6,316.4
NCS-PLANTING                                       2,779.9   6i375.2   8,799.4  10.376.8  j2,501.2  40.032.5          533.'  1,&4l6.  1,496.5  1.660.3  1.9,05.?   6,742.6
NES MILLEOUIPMEN7                                                       329091,2  70.613.Z7  1?850.5 1156555,0            -            5,457.7 1.298.1  .950.9P  0 7114.?
PROCESSING SUBPROJECTS EQUIPMENT                   27.082.5  57.590,1 107,202.0 176.110.4  85,436.4 453.501.4   5,i98.2 0,3.5?.9 18.245.2 28W17.7 13.02Z.8  7j)002.E
RESEARZCH EOUIPNENT                                  1.357.2                    -          -               W .57.2     260.5         -         -        --               260.5
To~al INVESTMENT COSTS                                87.342.7  91.184.4 188.40883 308.493.1 153.543.2 829,051.6  16,764.4 16.400.1 32,055.8 49iZ58.9 23.406.0 137985.2
1r. RECURRENT COSTS
SALARIES-INTERNATIOWALY RECRUITED STAFF            69576.1   7.228,5   7,873.8  10v419.3  i3.290.9  45.388,6   1,262.2  1,3.00.1  1)339.1  1,667.1  2.024.1   7,594.5
SALARIES-LOCAL                                    1,962.8   3.032.8   4.I42.5   4,920.4   5.753.9  19,812.4          376.7    545.5    704.5    707.3    877.1   3s291.1
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS                           1,268.7   1.732.4   2.211.0   27,72.C   2,720.9  10)658.9          243.5    311.6   3.76.0    4316.1    414.0   W.82.')
HEAVY EDUIPNENTIAGRIC  AMCINERY 0DP COSTS           94211   1.910.8   2.691.9   2,957.9   2,010.4  11,3'13.1         180.8   7343.7    457.8    4?3.3    %'.8.4   i,884.0
NES HILL OPERATING COMTS                                 ---- 5i600.7   5,600.7                                          -                                   53.83    853.8
RESEARCH OPETING COSTS                               207.0      437.1          -                     -     644.1       39.7      78a.         -   -              -      116.3
GENERAL AONINISTRATIIV  COSTS                     2,396.8   3,220.7   4.319.7   5.436.2   5,551.0  20,924.3          460.0    579.3    7314.e    8~.9.C    Gm6.e2   Z.489.9
POM6MENT FEE                                       1,971.1   1.195,0   3,271.8   5,652.1   6,156.7  18,246.8          378.3    214.9    556.4    904.Z    9375 2,9.
Total RECCIINT COSTS                                  15.324.8  18.757.2  24.510,7  32.111.?  41.084.5 132,s588.9   2.941.4  3,373.6  4,160.5  5,137.9  6.384.8  22.006.21
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    102o667.5 109.941.6 212,998.9 340,604.8 195.427.? 961.640,5  19.705.8 19,773.7 36,2'24.3 54P496.0 29,790.6 159,991.4
November 30. 1908 10:55



- 65 -                 Annex 4-5
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
SPECIAL ACCOUNT PROCEDURES
1.   Adapalm, Akwapalm, MEU and NIFOR
Adapalm, Akwapalm, MEU and NIFOR would each establish a Special
Project Account with a commercial bank. IBRD would make an initial deposit
of US$0.5 million each in the Adapalm and Akwapalm Special Project Accounts
and US$0.2 million each in the MEU and NIFOR Special Project Accounts. The
accounts would be replenished through disbursement applications which would
be supported by the following documents:
(a)  a statement of transactions of the Special Project Account
concerned, certified by the commercial bank where the account is
held;
(b)  a certificate confirming that the goods and services have been
supplied as contracted and signed as follows:
(i)  in the case of Adapalm and Akwapalm, by the Managing
Director/General Manager or the Plantation Manager or the
Mill Manager jointly with the Financial Controller or an
Accountant employed by the company and acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii) in the case of MEU by the Director of FDARD jointly with the
Head of MEU; and
(iii) in the case of NIFOR by its Director or Assistant Director
jointly with the Head of Administration or an Accountant
employed by NIFOR and acceptable to the Bank;
(c) reconciliation of withdrawals and deposits with statements of
permitted expenditures and IBRD disbursements certified as
follows:
(i)  by the Managing Director/General Manager and the Financial
Controller in respect of Adapalm and Akwapalm;
(ii) by the Director of FDARD and the Head of MEU in respect of
MEU; and
(iii)  by the Director and the Head of Administration of NIFOR in
respect of NIFOR;
(d) a statement disclosing the quarterly contributions



Annex 4-5
- 66 -                     Page 2 of 2
(i) by the Imo or Akwa Ibom State Governments to the SDUs in
Adapalm or Akwapalm; or
(ii) by the FGN for MEU and NIFOR.
Replenishment of MEU and NIFOR special accounts will be
conditional on PGN remaining current with its contribution. Replenishment
of Adapalm and Akwapalm special accounts will be conditional on the
respective State Governments remaining current in respect of their
quarterly contribution to the SDU. In an instance where a disbursement
made from the special account is not acceptable to the Bank, FGN or the
respective State Government would be required to refund the corresponding
amount of the disbursement into the account.
2.   Participating Banks
Participating banks would open Special Tree Crop Project Accounts
in their Lagos branch in the name of their head office. IBRD would make an
initial deposit of US$1.0 million in each participating bank's Special
Account upon receipt of a six-month forecast of withdrawals together with a
withdrawal application. The accounts would be replenished through
disbursement applications supported by the following documents:
(a) a statement of transactions of the Special Account certified by
the branch manager where the account is held;
(b) certificatr signed by the end-borrowers that the goods and
services have been supplied as contracted; and
'c) reconciliation of withdrawals and deposits with statements of
permitted expenditures and IBRD disbursements.
Should any disbursement made from the Account not be acceptable
to the Bank, FGN would cause the PB to refund the corresponding amount of
the disbursement with the Special Account concerned.



- 67 -
Annex 4-6
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD                                                  CUMULATIVE
FISCAL          IBRD                   CUMULATIVE  DISBURSEMENT          PROJECT
YEAR         QUARTER  DISBURSEMENT  DISBURSEMENT  AS Z OF LOAN    PROFILE 1/
FY90               I              0              0             --
II              0              0             --            7.2
III            0.4            0.4             --
IV            1.3            1.7            1.6
FY91               I            2.9            4.6            4.3
II            4.3            8.9            8.4           14.1
III            4.4           13.3           12.5
IV           4.3           17.6           16.6
FY92               I            2.5           20.1           19.0
II            3.5          23.6            22.3           28.9
III            4.3           27.9           26.3
IV           4.5           32.4            30.6
FY93               I            5.2           37.6           35.5
II            6.2           43.8           41.3           52.7
III            8.6           52.4           49.4
IV           9.4           61.8           58.3
FY94               I            9.6           71.4           67.3
II            9.6          81.0            76.4           74.7
III            9.7           90.7           85.6
IV            9.1           99.8           94.2
FY95               I            5.2          105.0           99.1
II            1.0         106.0          100.0           100.0
1/  Based on Bank-assisted Nucleus Estate Project in Nigeria.



NIGERIA                                                           ANNEX 4-7
TREE CROPS PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
FEDERAL MINISTRY             FEDERAL MINISTRY               IMO STATE                 AKWA IBOM STATE
OF SCIENCE                OF AGRICULTURE.                MINISTRY OF                  MINISTRY OF             STAGRICULTRE
AND                   WATER RESOUHCES          -   AGRICULTURE AND  _  _        AGRICULTURE AND            OF AGRICULTURE
TECHNOLOGY             AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT               NATURAL                      NATURAL                  AND NATURAL
TECNNCLOGY  AND   RURAL  DEVELOPMENT       RESOURCES                    RESOURCES                  RESOURCES
NIGE RIAN              FEDERAL DEPARTMENT      -  -_ -  -        -  -  -  -  -  -  - -    -  -  -  -   --
INSTITAN               OF AGRICULTURE AND                                                                    TREE CROP UNITS
FO ILSTPALM             RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                     OR AGRICULTURAL
FRESEL ARCH                         ---     -             ADAPALM                     AKWAPALM                  DEVELOPMENT
TREE CROPS DIVISION    F        NIGERIA LTD.                   IND,LTD.                 PROJECTS
I              .I                                                 
I       MONITORING AND          OHAJI    UKWA    SMALL-          EKOR      SMALL-         OIL PALM
UNIT               AND      AND      DEVPT.        AND        DEVPT.
MILLS     MILL     UNIT          MILL       UNIT
1   BANKS    J           |  SMALLHOLDERS  |    |  SM       DERS                 SMALLHOODERS 
PRIVATE INVESTORS
Direct Responsiblity Linkage
---*           Coordinallon/Llalson Unkage
Extension would be the responsibliliy of the ADP
EK\W42725A



- 69 -
Annex 4-8
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
SELECTION OF PARTICIPATING BANKS
1.        SOCFINCO in their report "Feasibility Study for a Credit Line for
Oil Palm and Rubber Projects in Nigeria", November 1987, in selecting the
intermediate financial institutions, took the following criteria into
consideration: (a) satisfactory experience and good performance in agro-
industrial lending; (b) sound adequate financial position and management,
including managerial and technical capabilities related to the subsector;
and (c) adequate technical staff in terms of numbers, experience and
qualifications.
2.        In the selection process, a questionnaire was used to outain from
the potential participating financial institutions the following informa-
tion:
(i) Balance sheet, main items and ratios;
(ii) Experience in agro-industrial lending;
(iii) Whether the bank has an agricultural lending department or
unit - Background and qualifications of the staff members of
the department or unit;
(iv) Numbers, experience and qualifications of staff the bank
will be willing or able to assign for the implementation of
the subsector development program;
(v) Detailed criteria that the bank applies in deciding whether
or not to make agricultural loans;
(vi) Current criteria and standards for determining conditions
for agricultural loans in the subsector, including the
coverage of the foreign exchange risk of the World Bank
loan.
3.        A short list of eighteen financial institutions, comprising ten
commercial, six merchant and two development banks was established. The
ten commercial banks were selected from a list of fifteen commercial banks
authorized by the Central Bank of Nigeria to operate foreign currency
accounts. The remaining five were considered either too small and there-
fore not likely to have the capacity to handle the project, or having their
basic operations in other areas than the oil palm region of the country.
The six merchant banks short-listed were selected on the basis of their
being the largest and oldest ones, the others being either too small or too
new to have the capability of handling such a large project as the one in
question.
4.        The questionnaire, together with an explanatory letter were sent
to each bank on the 5th of May, 1986. Follow-up telephone communication



- 70 -
Annex 4-8
Page 2 of 4
was also instituted. By the end of June 1986, thirteen financial institu-
tions completed and returned the questionnaires to the consultants. The
five banks which did not return the questionnaire to the consultants at the
close of the exercise were assumed to be not interested in participating in
the proposed financing. The consultants interviewed the respondees and
evaluated completed questionnaires of the participating banks according to
the scoring schedule reproduced on page 3 of this Annex. The consultants
arrived at the following result:
United Bank for Africa                               88
Continental Merchant Bank                            86
ICON Limited (Merchant Bankers)                      82
National Bank of Nigeria                             76
NAL Merchant Bank                                    73
Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank           70
Nigeria Merchant Bank                                68
Union Bank                                           64
International Bank for West Africa                   53
International Merchant Bank                          50
Progress Bank                                        45
African Continental Bank                             37
Societe Generale                                     35
On the basis that there would be one (or at the most two) apex intermediate
financial institutions for the project, the following three were short-
listed by the consultants:
1. United Bank for Africa
2. Continental Merchant Bank
3. ICON Limited (Merchant Bankers)
5.        The Bank's pre-appraisal mission in February 1988, after consul-
tations with the Government and the b&nking sector, concluded that, given
the poor experience with apex arrangements in Nigeri , an alternative
approach should be used. Consequently it was agreed that the IBRD loan be
directed to qualified banks who would be willing to upgrade their expertise
in tree crops project appraisal on being assured of a minimum allocation.
On the basis of US$50 million being available for PS financing and the need
to provide an allocation of at least US$10 million per participating bank,
the maximum number of banks that would become PBs would be 5. As a poten-
tial tree crop credit demand survey in December 1987 showed that several
banks had substantial pipelines 1/ , provision has been made for those who
are more active in the subsector to obtain a maximum initial allocation of
US$15 million which would mean that the minimum number of PBs would be 3.
1/   3 of the 5 top-ranked banks had pipelines of more than US$15 million.
Their balance sheets are reproduced on page 4.



- 71 -
Annex 4-8
Page 3 of 4
6.        The PBs would be selected on the basis of the ranking established
in para. 4 above. Each bank will be offered a minimum allocation of US$10
million and a maximum of US$15 million in the order of their ranking until
the US$50 million is fully taken up. In the event there is a balance of
less than the minimum of US$10 million not being taken up, this balance
amount would be re-offered in the same order of priority to the PBs who
have already accepted the allocations. In the event that it is necessary
to offer an allocation to a bank with a scoring percentage of less than 50Z
(para. 4 above), this bank would be re-evaluated in accordance with the
criteria (scoring schedule) on this page and if it does not meet the
cut-off level of 50Z, the next bank on the list would be approached and the
same re-evaluation carried out.
SCORING SCHEDULE FOR
EVALUATION OF NIGERIAN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
1.   Number of branches in the concerned area                         5
2.   Experience in Agro-Industrial lending                           10
3.   Balance sheet (including experience in Palm Oil lending)    20
4.   Agric. Lending Department (Specialist in Oil Palm project)  15
5.   Provision of Special Team                                       15
6.   Basic Criteria for deciding agricultural loans                  10
7.   Criteria and standards for determining conditions
for agricultural loans                                         15
8.   Receptiveness to Project                                        10
100



- 72 -                    Annex 4-8
Page 4 of 4
Balance Sheets
ICON  1/              NAL  2/             UBA   31
1986      1987       1986      1987       1987       1988
Assets                      ---------------------million Naira----------------
Cash & short-term funds  545.6       963.6      305.2     205.6    1865.2    2279.6
Investments                10.6        0.1         --        --      319.4      329.4
Loans & advances          438.5      600.4      181.7     237.5    1798.6    2008.1
'.easing equipment            --        --       15.5      15.2         --         --
Other assets               32.0       55.1      223.6     857.7    1587.9    2304.5
Fixed assets               15.2       66.3       22.5      43.9       85.6      139.4
Total assets             1041.9    1685.5       748.5    1359.9    5656.7    7061.1
Financed by:
Share Capital              15.0       20.0       10.5      10.5       75.0       75.0
Reserves                   23.9       37.8       26.3      34.6      210.9      253.5
Shareholders' funds        38.9       57.8       36.8      45.1      285.9      328.5
Deposits                  583.5    1051.9       388.8     361.3    4766.7    5872.9
Taxation, dividends,
& other liabilities    419.5       575.9     322.9      953.5      604.0     859.7
1041.9    1685.6      748.5    1359.9    5656.7    7061.1
Acceptance, guarantees
& other obligations
on behalf of customers
& customers' liability
therefore               158.7       76.2      18.8       34.6      923.0    1434.8
BALANCE SHEET TOTAL      1200.6    1761.8       767.3    1384.5    6579.7    8495.9
1/ to 31 December
2/ to 31 March
3/ to 31 March



Annex 4-9
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Project Year    Project   1         2        3         4        5         6        7
IBRD FY     FY89    FY90    FY91         FY92     FY93      FY94    FY95       FY96
1988189  1989/90   19901  11991(92   1992S93   19931/94   1994/95   1995/98
Quarter     23_1 2 3 41 23 411 213 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 13 4 1 2 34
1. IBRD
1.1 Negotiation                                   *
1.2 Board Presentation                                 *
1.3 Effectiveness
1.4 Completion Date                                                                                        .31,9S
1.5 Closing Date                                                                                                 I ec 3. 199
2. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.1 Appointment of Managing Agents
2.2 Appointment of
Project Appraisal Specialist
Tree Crop Processing Expert
2.3 Signing of FGN/State Loan Agreements                 *
2.4 Work Program Submitted to Ban",
2.3 Reports
Quarterly                                                   *
Audited Financial Statement
Completion                                 _
2.4 Oil Palm Nursery Operations                _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _ _       _ _
2.5 Oil Palm Clearing & Planting Works                                                 C _On     I
2.6 Ukwa & Ekor Mills Construction                                     _        .  .    .   a n   _ 
2.7 Staff Housing & Offices Construction                      - _ _             -       ____--_
2.8 Private Sector Processing Subprojects
Participating Ranks Commit Funds                      _        I
Subprojects Implemented         _ _ _ _ _ _  I _ _ _ _ _ _ I_1
_-_--   Refers to preparaton of bid documents, bidding, evaluafton and award.
ksrAw42798



NICERIA                                                                                 ANNEX 5-1
TREE CROPS PROJECT                                                                            TABLE I
FF3, PALM OIL AND PALM KERNEL PRODUCTION PROM PROJECT PLANTINCS AND NES MILLS
TONS
PROJECT YR.              4        5         6        7        8         9       10       11        12   13-20        21       22        23       24       25        26       27       28       29        30
PAUL4 OIL:
UKWA NES               640      1816     3144     5220     7720    10156    12184    13612    14364    14700    14490    14406    14196    13986    13818    13230    13062    12642    12222    11886
SCOR NES                         640     1900     3900     5780      7460     8400     8820     8820      8820     8820     8610      8400     8190     8190     8190      7770     7350     6930      6930
LMVA SDU                         J43      952     1949     3290      5251     6740     8025     8930      9500     9367     9215      902S     3835     83S0      8417     8265     8075     7885      7600
EKCR SDIJ                       >'45      645     1230     2235      3830     5030     6125      7030     7600     7505     7410      7318     7125     6840      6745     66S0     6555     6365      6080
MCS                              840     2750     6080    11060    16920    21320    24840    26600    26600    26220    2SS5    2479S    24035    23275    22895    22230    21470    20710    19950
UKWA MILL WC                    1620     1800     1800       450     1800     1800     1350       630
Total      640     5204    11191    20179    3053S    45417    S5474    62772    66374    67220    66402    65196    63731    62171    60673    59477    57977    56092    54112    52446
PAUL KERNEL:
UKWA NE3                100      250     5S4       870      1298     1704     2044     2282     2394      2450     2415     2401      2366     2331     2303     2205      2177     2107     2037      1981
CamR KM                          100      310      660      980      1260     1400     1470      1470     1470     1470     1435      1400     1365     1365      1365     1295     1225      1155     1153
UKWA SDU                          49      143      306      519       827     1072     1282      1410     1500     1479      14S5     1425     1395      1350     1329     1305     1275      1245     1200
EKOR SDJ                          35       98      195      350       597      602      983    1l11       1200     1185     1170      115.     1125     1080      1065     1050     1035     1005       960
mm                               120      410      950      1750     2680     3400     3960      4200     4200     4140     4035      3915     3795     3675     3615      3510     3390     3270      3150
UKWA MILL WP                     900     1000     1000      250      1000     1000      750       350
Total      100     1454     2495      3981     5147     8068      9718    10727    10934    10820    10689    10496    10261    10011       9773     9579     9337      9032     8712     8446
FF8:
LU*A NES              4000      8600    16800    27000    39000    50400    59200    65200    6840C    70000    69C00    68600    67600    66600    65800    63000    62200    60200    58200    56600
EKOR N1E5                       4000    11000    21000    29000    36000    40000    42000    42W00    42000    42000    41000    40000    39000    39000    39000    37000    35000    33000    33000
UKWA SOL)                       2450     6300    12050    19300    30150    37000    427.30    47000    50000    44300    4850)   47500    46500    45000    44300    43500    42500    41500    40000
SaR SO)                         17S0     4250     7500    13250    22500    28000    32750    37000    40000    39500    39000    38S00    37500    36000    35500    35000   34500    33S00    32000             -
F10                             6000    18S00    38000    65000    96000   116000   132000   140000   140000   138000   134500   130500   126500   122500   120500   117000   113000   109000   105000
LANA MILL VPC                  18000    20000    20000      5000    20000    20000    15000      7000
Total     4000    40800    76850   125550   170550   255050   300200   329700   341400   3420C0   337800   331600   324100   316100   308300   302300   294700   285200   275200   266600
(FILE NAME: A*S-111 .WK1)



ANNEX 5-1
TABLE 2
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
TENERA YIELD/HA
NUCLEUS ESTATE                       SDU                           UCS
I  FFB     X OIL  IX KERNEL II  FFB   I X OIL  IX KERNEL II  FF    I x OIL  IX KERNEL I
I TONS   I        I         II TONS   I         I        II TONS   I
YEAR 4        I   4.001   16.00 I   2.50 1    3.501  14.00 I   2.0011   1.601  14.00 I   2.00
YEAR 5        I   7.00 I  18.00 I   3.00 I    6.00 I  16.00 I   2.50 II   2.00    1 18.00 I   2.50
YEAR 6        1  10.00 1  20.00 I   3.60 II   8.S0 I  18.00 I   3.00 II   3.00 1  18.00 1   3.00 I
YEAR 7        I  12.00 I  21.00 I   3.50 II   8.00 I  19.00 I   3.00 I    4.00 I  19.00 I   3.00 I
YEAR S - 20   I  14.00 I  21.00 1   3.60 II  10.00 1  19.00        3 3.00 11   4.00 I  19.00 1   3.00
YEAR 21- 26       13.00 I  21.00 I   3.S011    9.00 I  19.001    3.0011    3.60 I  19.00        3.001
I  I     I        II         I        I        I~ ~ ~         ~~I III
YEAR 26 - 30   I  11.00 I  21.00 I   3.50 II   8.00 I  19.00 I   3.00 II   3.00 I  19.00 I   3.00                            1
(-n
(FILE NAME: ANX5-1T2.WKl)I



- 76 -
Annex 5-2
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
PALM OIL PRODUCTION AND DEMAND PROJECTIONS
1988           1995              2001
---------------'000 Tons--------
Demand at 3Z p.a. increase           650             800              960
Supply increasing at current
rate of 2Z p.a.                    420             480              540
Shortfall                       230             320              420
Incremental. supply from EIB/EDF
financing 1/                                        80              107
Incremental supply from IBRD
Tree Crops project plantings                        18               66
Incremental supply from IBRD
Tree Crops Line of Credit
mills 2/                                            40               40
Shortfall                      230              182              207
1/ Based Oil Palm Belt Program as given in Table 3 of Annex 3.
2/ Assumption of 116 t/hr capacity operating at average 752 capacity for
300 days with 702 Tenera and 301 Dura fruit with incremental production
being only 502 largely derived from improved processing.



- 77 -                Annex 5-3
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
ADAPALM (NIGERIA) LIMITED AND AKWAPALM INDUSTRIES LIMITED
A.   Adapalm (Nigeria) Limited
A 100 percent Imo State Government-owned parastatal, I apalm has
been a principal beneficiary of IBRD Loan No. 1191-UNI (1976). It has a
fully planted oil palm estate of 4310 ha. at Ohaji together with a 20 tons
of FFB per hour palm oil mill which is being extended to 30 tons/hr with
the assistance of the European Investment Bank. Adapalm also has two
satellite mills of 5 tons/hr each to process non-estate oil palm fruits
originating largely from WPG and from Tenera smallholders to a lesser
extent. 60 percent of the fruit processed by Adapalm is from WPG and
smallholders.  The company has acquired 5500 ha of land at Ukwa which would
be developed as a nucleus estate as part of an integrated NES-SDU
development which would include a 20 tons/hr palm oil mill, extendable to
40 tons/hr. Adapalm is also planning to construct a palm oil refinery,
with EIB assistance, to take advantage of the current lucrative urban
market for "clear" edible oils.
As of June 30, 1986, Adapalm had an accumulated profit of N 6.7
million. The company, however, incurred a loss of N 6.7 million for the
financial year ending June 30, 1987 and a further loss of N 5.4 by year end
1987 with the total loss carried to the 'alance sheet as at January 1, 1988
being N 7.5 million. The losses can be attributed partly to increases in
operating expenses, interest on loans and exchange losses as a result of
the massive depreciation of the value of the naira beginning September
1986; and partly to low crude palm oil prices occasioned by substantial
imports of vegetable oils at old naira values, high local production and a
steep drop in sales to the industrial buyers who virtually stopped
production to accommodate and adjust to the effects of the drop in the
value of the naira. The picture for 1988 appears to be brighter as local
crude palm oil prices have recovered and the company has taken measures to
reduce its dependence on imported items. A small profit of N 200,000 is
expected in 1988, followed by higher profits of N 2.6 million (1989) and N
19.5 in the fifth year of the project (1993). Table 1 to this Annex
proviaes the balance sheet as at December 31, 1987. Table 2 shows the
Projected Income Statement. Table 3 provides the Projected Cash Flow for
Adapalm excluding the project. The projected cash flow for Ukwa NES and
mill is given in Table 4. It is clear from Table 4 that Adapalm's cash
surpluses from its other operations would be needed to support Ukwa NES and
mill for the first nine years of the project life before this component of
the project generates its own cash surpluses.
B.   Akwapalm Industries Limited
Akwapalm was incorporated as a limited liability company in February
1988. The authorized share capital is N 10 million comprising 10 million
ordinary shares. Issued capital amounts to N 1.1 million subscribed as
follows: Akwa Ibom State Government - 1 million shares, and SOCFINCO -
100,000 shares. The state government has declared its intention of



- 78 -                   Annex 5-3
Page 2 of 2
transferring its Ekor oil palm estate (1223 ha.) which has approximately
1000 acres of planted oil palms, staff housing and offices and an old 0.8
ton/hr palm oil mill to Akwapalm as part of its equity in the company.
Akwapalm is in the process of acquiring 3000 ha. for the Ekor NES which
would incorporate the existing Ekor estate. The company's issued capital
would be increased to N 30 million in order to enable it to undertake the
development of the Ekor NES and mill, the projected cash flow of which is
provided in Table 5. From the cash flow it is apparent that the company
would not be able to start repayment of the IBRD loan in the 6th year and
arrangements would have to be made with the Akwa Ibom government to prepay
and allow Akwapalm to start repayment in the 11th year. On this basis the
company would begin to accrue cash surpluses from year 7.
.;
'4.,J



Annex 5-3
- 79 -                   Table 1
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
ADAPALM4 BALANCE SHEET AS AT DECZMBER 31, 1987
1986/d7
N million                                                        N million
42.5       FIXED ASSETS                                         41.6
CURRENT ASSETS:
4.1       Stock                                                 4.4
5.3       Debtors and Prepayment                                8.3
3.2       Cash                                                  0.7
12.6                                                            13.4
LESS: CURRENT LIABILITIES
12.5       Creditors' and Customers' Deposits                   15.7
^-       Bank Overdraft                                        0.2
12.5                                                            15.9
0.1       Net Current Assets/(Liabilities)                     (2.5)
0.4       Preliminary Expenses                                  0.3
2.2       Ukwa Project                                          3.8
14.0       Foreign Exchange Loss                                18.9
59.2                                                            62.1
FINANCED BY:
SHARE CAPITAL
7.0       AUTHORIZED                                            7.0
6.3       ISSUED AND FULLY PAID UP                              6.3
2.2       Profit and loss account                              (7.5)
2.0       Imo State Grant                                       2.0
0.5       Federal Government Grant                              0.5
LOANS
20.9       IBRD Loan and Capitalized Interest                   21.7
19.4       SGB, Belgium and Luxembourg                          24.2
5.6       NACB                                                  5.6
6.0       ICON                                                  8.6
0.7       ACB                                                   0.7
52.6                                                            60.8
59.2                                                            62.1



Annex 5-3
- 80 -                         Table 2
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
ADAPALM PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT
Average
1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994  1995-2004
-----------------------millIon Naira-------------------------------
Sales                         40.9       60.0       69.9       86.8       72.4       79.6       79.6         79.6
Cost of Sales
Agricultural costs           3.0        3.6        4.3        4.7        6.2        6.7        6.7         5.7
FFB purchases               6.7         9.7       13.1       14.3       16.8       17.4       17.4        17.4
Mill processing              3.9        4.6        6.1        6.6        6.1        6.7        6.7         6.7
Contingencies                1.3        1.8        2.2        2.6        2.7        3.0        8.0         3.0
Uepreciation
(Mill A Plantation)        3.4        3.2        3.6        3.7        3.8        4.0         8.8         1.7
Total              18.3       22.8       28.2       30.8       33.6       36.8       36.6        34.5
Gross Profit                  22.6       27.2       31.7       36.8       38.8       42.8       42.6         45.1
Indirect Expenses
Administration               9.7       10.7       11.9       13.1       14.4       15.9       16.9        15.9
Contingencies                1.0        1.1        1.2        1.3        1.4        1.6        1.6         1.8
Other depreciation          3.2         3.3        3.4        3.2        1.7        1.6        1.7         1.1
Exchange loss               3.2         4.6        5.2        3.3        2.9        1.8        0.9         0.1
Interest                    6.3        6.0         4.2        3.1        3.6        2.6        1.9         0.4
Total             22.4        24.8       26.9       24.0       23.9       23.3       22.0        19.1
Income before tax              0.2        2.6        6.8       11.8       14.9       19.6       20.6        26.0



ANNEX 5-3
TABLE 3
NIGERIA
TpREE CROPS
Adapaim Projected Cash Flow Withwut Project
(N Million)
YEAR                                 1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
PROJECT YEAR                           1        2        3        4        6        6        7        8        9       10
Sales                                  60.0    59.9    66.8    72.4    79.8    79.8    79.9    79.6    79.9    79.8
Investments/RopIac.ment Expend.         3.7      2.9      3.2      3.5      3.9      3.9      3.9      3.9     0.0      0.0
Operating Expenses                     19.7    24.7    27.1    29.8    32.9    32.8    32.8    32.8    32.8    32.8
Admin. Expenses                        11.8    13.1    14.4    16.8    17.4    17.4    17.4    17.4    17.4    17.4
DObt Service                           13.8    13.7       7.6      7.4      9.2      8.3      7.1      6.6      3.2     0.8
Loans 1/                                4.3      4.8      4.8      5.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
____________ _______.____ ____________ ____________ ____________ ____________ ____________
Surplus/lDeficit                        5.3    10.1    18.4    21.0    18.2    17.2    18.4    18.4    26.2    28.2
Surplue rought  orward                  3.4      2.8      4.4    19.4    14.6    43.1        34.6     29.9    38.3    65.5
Accumulated Su  lus                     8.7    12.9    27.8    40.4    40.7    60.3          63.0    48.3    82.5    83.7
Transferred to &kwa                     6.0      4.0      9.6     17.2      0.0     27.7    24.8    14.1        2.9     0.0
------____------___   -----__ ------____-----_ _-----___------___-----------___
Balance                                 2.7      8.9    18.3    23.2    40.7        32.6    28.2      34.2    59.6    83.7
Interest on Deposits at 12X p.a.        0.1      0.5      1.1      1.3      2.4      2.0      1.7      1.7     4.1      6.6
Cash Surplus at Year End                2.8      9.4    19.4    24.5    43.1        34.8    29.9    38.3    55.5    89.3
1/ E,isting foreign loan rescheduled.



ANNEX 5-3
TABLE 4
NI09MIA
TREE CROPS PRO JET
U(WA NES A MILL - PROJWEDT CASH FLOW I/
(N MILLION
PROJET YEAR                   I112 1314                   51 61 7181                     9110    Il         112    113    114    1$    116         17      IS   119   120
SALES REYeauE           I                          .6I 16.6I 27.9   42.0I 51.8I 80.6I 95.9   105.8   110.0 I 111.0I 111.0I 111.0 I 11.0 I111.0   111.0   111.0I 111.0I
PROJCT LOAN             127.1 18.6.    38.5w  60.11  35.21                                                                                                             
ADAPALM CASH 2/         I6.01   4.01   9.51  17.2         --27.7  24.81   14.11   2.91                                                                                 
O11  L.OANS             I    -       -       -      -      -       -16.11         -      -                                                                                
TOrTAL  )LMCt                33.1 I20.S   46.0 I78.9 I51.8 I 5.6 I82.9 I65.9 I83.5 I95.9 I105.8 I110.0 I110.0 I111.0 I111.0 I111.0 I111.0 I111.0 I111.0 I111.0 
APPLICATIONS                      I      I       I             I              I                                    II                     IIIIII
PROJEET PERIOD EP8ENITUREJI 33.1 1 20.5 1 46.0 1 78.9 1 45.0 1       I                                    I       I      I      I       I                              
POST PROJECT:                                                                                                                                                                  
CAPITAL                 I                                              22.81   2.51   3.91       -      -    1.8  12.21                    5.21   3.91    --        -      .8,
PLANTATION MAINTENANCE    I     I      I       I                 4.81   5.31   5.61   6.1      611 6.2  .1   6.11   6.11   6.I   6.11   6.1~  6.11   6.11   6.11   6.11
PLANTATION ACMDIISTRATION I     I      I                        10.8 I10.8 I10.8 I10.8 I10.8 I10.8 I10.8   10.8 I10.8 I10.8 I10.8 I10.8 I10.8 I10.8 I10.8 
HILL0OPERATION          I              I                         4.01   5.5    5.91   9.3f  10.81  11.41  11.31  11.21  11.21  11.2 121.21  11.21  11.2j  12.21  11.21
FF9 PLR04ASE            I                             I5.21   7.4w   9.91   9.6   17.91  20.9  22.3122.3  22.01   22.01  22.0  22.0122.0122.0  22.0  22.01
PROJeCT LOAN          I       I                     I      I28.6 I28.6 I28.6 I28.6 I28.6 I28.6 I28.6 I28.6 I28.6 I28.65  28.6 I28.6 I28.6 I28.6   28.6 
O2THER LOAN           I                                                      2.916.916.21   5.41   4.71                                                              
TOrTAL AFP.ICATIONS       I33.11  20.51  46.01  78.91   '2    55.61  82.91  65.91  83.51  78.4j 84.61  85.61  90.91  78.71  78.71  83.91  82.61  78.71  78.7(  80.51
SURPLUS                   I0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   1.61   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01  17.51  21.2  24.4120.11  32.31  32.31  27.1  28.41  32.31  32.31  30.51
I/ IN CLAIT AIRIA FOR PROJEC-T F5tIOD AND CONSTANT THEREAFTER.
2/ SEE TABLE 3 AN?EX 5-3 FOR ADAPMAM CASH FLOW.
(FILE NAME: ANIC5-3T4.WKI)
(al .sq44)



ANNE 5-3
TABLE 5
NICSUA
1rAE CRO0'S PROJECT
ESWR NES A MILL - PRO JECTED CASH FLW~ I/
(N MILLIO3N)
PROJECT YEAR                1 I    2    33     4  I  5          6  I7  I8     9  110   Il   112   113   114   115   116                      17?   18   119   120 
SALESftVEB&E           I0.81   1.31   2.21   3.21   5.01  12.91  26.01  40.85  64.01  75.11  82.11  87.21  88.91  88.91  84.01  84.01  84.01  84.01  84.01  84.01
FROJECT LOAN           112.5111.5  26.7  40.9  21.41                                                                                                            
EZPn Y                 15.1 1  4.1111.8 1  9.2 1           1 4.5 1       I      1                                                                               
OTHM L0AN6I                   I                 9.7110.71                                                                                                       
TOTrAL SOURCES           118.41  16.91  40.5S  63.01  37.11  17.41  26.01  40.51  64.01  75.11  82.1I  87.2  88.9188.9184.0  84.0  84.0184.0184.01  84.01
APPLICATIONSI                          I             I              I                    I      I      I              IIIIIIII
PROJECT PMIOD XEDITUEoI17.7   16/.71e.139.6 1  2.0I132.5I         I                    I      I      I                            I      I      I        
POST  PROJECT:                I      I       I      I             I      I      I                            IIIIIIIII
CAPITAL AREPLACEMET    I                     3      f0.61   1.41  11.3   2.09   1.8    3.01                            1.31   6.3)       I      I        
PL.ANTATION MAINTENANCE   I0.71   0.81   0.91   1.01   2.21   3.31   3.31   2.71   2.61   2.51   2.4 1  2.31   2.31   2.21   2.21   2.21   2.21   2.21   2.21   2.21
PLANrATION ADMINISI-tATIONI                                   2.71   3.5    3.51   3.41   2.9    2.9    2.9    2.91   2.91   2.51   2.5    2.5    2.5    2.51   2.51
HILJLOPERATION%I                                       1.31   2.21   3.71   5.21   6.8I  7.9I  8.81   9.11   9.01   9.01   8.5I  8.51   8.51   8.51   8.51   8.31
FFBPURWOSE             I      I             I       I1.11   2.61   4.7l  8.1I  13.11  16.1I  18.6122.0  22.0  22.0  22.0  22.0  22.0  22.0  22.0  22.01
DCBTSERVICE:                                                      I    I  I I                 I      I       II                   IIIIII
PROJECr LOAN         I      I       I      I      I             I                              37.0i 37.01  37.0  37.09  37.01  37.0   37.01  37.0   37.09  37.09
1T'ER LOANS         I                                     6.016.0   6.01   6.01   6.0I                                                                       
T3TAL APPLICATIONS       I18.43  16.91  40.59  63.09  37.1j  17.49  22.61  38.81  33.91  37.21  72.71  73.33  73.21  74.61  79.01  72.21  72.21                   
3URPLUS                  I0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.03   0.01   3.41   3.73  30.11  37.91   9.41  13.91  15.71  14.31   5.01  11.81  11.81  11.81  11.81  11.89
If IN CJ8tENT NAIRA FOR PROJECT PERIOD AND CONSTANT THREAFTER
(FILE NAME: MNXS-3T4.WKI)
(A44.AQSS)



ANNEX 5-4
- 84 -                         Page l of 3
NIGERIA TREE CROPS PROJECT
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES
OIL PALM PLANTING PROGRAM AND MILLS
Scope of the Analyses
1.        The direct investment component of the project consists of
planting on Nucleus Estates (NES), the Smallholder Development Unit (SDU),
and Mixed Crop Smallholders (MCS) and the construction of one 40 ton/hr
mill and one 30 ton/hr mill. The costs of operation for NES, SDU, MCS and
Nursery are set out in Annex 5-4, Tables 1-12. The economic and financial
analyses were undertaken for this direct component as a whole and for the
SDU and MCS separately on a per hectare basis. The relative attractiveness
of harvesting WPG to be processed either through the traditional method or
a modern mill was also assessed.
Summary of Results
2.        The economic and financial rates of return for the direct invest-
ment component are attractive and robust. In the base case, the ERR is 21
percent. Assuming the opportunity cost of capital (OCC) is 12 percent, the
switching values are 45 percent fall in benefits and 81 percent rise in
cost. With a three-year lag in benefits, ERR falls to 14.8 percent. With
a 50 percent increase in costs, ERR becomes 14.9 percent (see Table 2 for
details).
3.        The financial incentives for the SDU and the MCS participant are
also attractive. On a per hectare basis, SDU gross return per man day (MD)
(in constant 1989 prices) in Year 5 is 120 which rises to N52 in Year 8,
which is the first year of peak production. Compare thesa returns to the
average wage of 14.81 - 7.00 per MD.  The SDU owner-operator will also be
allowed to intercrop up to Year 4 so as to reduce the opportunity cost of
his participation.  For the MCS, assuming no subsidy, gross margin per MD,
in Year 4 is N11.30 which rises to N38.91 in Year 7 which is the first year
of peak production. This gross margin is exclusive of the cost of his
labor, which is mainly for maintenance from Year 4 on.  If the cost of his
labor is included, then the gross revenue per MD is N16.57 in Year 4,
rising to 144.18 in year 7. Assuming a 30 percent subsidy on planting
materials, (which is the case now), the only difference is that his nega-
tive gross margin is reduced in Year 0 and 1 by N90 and N9.6 respectively.
The analysis shows that the MCS does not need a subsidy to obtain an
attractive return. See Tables 3-6 for details on cost structures and
returns.
4.        The financial incentive for the harvester of the WPG is marginal
if the fruit is processed using the traditional method, with a low extrac-
tion rate of 6 percent. If modern methods are used, then harvesting
becomes financially attractive. Using traditional methods, his net return



ANNEX 5-4
-85 -                           Page 2 of 3
per ton FFB is N15.75. Using modern methods with an extraction rate of 9
percent, the corresponding return is N46.75. The cost of harvesting and
carrying a ton of FFB is N 56.25.  Assuming a wage rate of N4.8/MD, the
cost in terms of mandays spent is 11.72. The return to the owner after
paying for 11.72 mandays is N1.341MD.  If he sent the fruit instead to a
modern mill, the return rises tn N3.99/MD. See Table 9 for details. An
important implication of this analysis is that although FFB from WPG are
free only in the restricted sense that the fruits are a bounty from nature,
converting fruit into oil is not free. If only traditional processing
methods are to be relied upon, then palm oil prices must rise well above
the current price of 12400 or cost of harvesting and carrying must fall
well below their current low level of approximately N.75 per bunch, for
harvesting to be attractive. At these relative price levels, WPG can
contribute significantly to increasing domestic production of CPO, only if
modern processing methods are used. These in turn have a high import
content, require long term investment decisions, access to credit,
managerial and technical skills.
Assumptions: Prices and Quantities
5.        Economic and financial prices for palm oil, palm kernel and Dura
FFB have been derived using the Bank's price projections as base; estimates
of margins from Europe to Port Harcourt and from Port Harcourt inwards to a
representative millgate from Socfinco 's feasibility studies, FAO/CP
preparation report, and mission estimates; staff estimates of technical
parameters, conversion coefficients and basic country economic parameters.
All prices are in constant 1989 terms. These are detailed in Tables 10-12.
6.        The economic millgate price for CPO rises from 12409 in 1989 to
113265 in 1995 and declines to 13196 in 2000.  In the analyses of returns
per hectare, we have used as base price N2400. The financial prices for
the same years are not significantly different. The corresponding prices
are N2442, N3298 and N3229.  The main difference is 'hat the internal
margins are higher. The economic millgate prices for palm kernel are N711,
N1211 and N1211 for 1989, 1995 and 2000 respectively.  Financial millgate
prices are somewhat lower at 1680, N1180 and N1180 for the same years.  The
actual financial prices however may be much higher because of the premium
on foreign exchange earnings. The Dura FFB prices have been derived using
the economic millgate prices and the schedule of prices used by Adapalm in
its purchases.
7.        There are two sets of quantities:  the technical parameters such
as yields, and extraction rates; and the scale of the program proposed in
terms of yearly hectarages and the phasing. These are detailed in Annex
5-1, Table 2, Annex 4-1, Tables 1-4. The technical parameters are on the
conservacive side, however they do assume sustained goed management for the
NES and SDU. The total hectarage is 34,500 hectares of monocrop equivalent
of Tenera.
8.        The derivation of the SDU input levy per ton of FFB assumes
payment over 15 years, starting in Year 5, the second year of production.



ANNEX 5-4
-86-                            Page 3 of 3
The input and services costs are from Year 0 to 4, farmer contribution is
mainly through his labor, and interest rate is 14 percent based on a CBN
Rediscount Rate of 12.75 percent, giving the Imo State Government a spread
of 5 percent on IBRD rate of 7.72 percent to cover the foreign exchange
risk and 1.25 percent for administrative costs. The levy per ton of FFB is
estimated at N64.



- 87 -
AMNEX 5-4
NIGERIA                         TABLE 1
TREE CROPS PkOJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
TOTAL    TOTAL*   TOTAL**
PROJECT  NES       SDU       MCS      MEU       FINANCL. ECONOMIC ECONOMIC NET
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COST         COST     BENEFITS BENEFITS
_NAIRAS'000-
1       41580      3375      2592     6584    54131    47503               -47503
2       27064      3952      5114     3168    39298    32926               -32926
3       56502      4962      6326     3350    71140    61948               -61948
4       84353      6590      6730     1917    99590    90537          96   -90441
5       42993    10102       7358     1185    61638    55254    12990   -42264
6       17920      5095      2485              25500    21776    26519       4743
7       38904      5353      2680              46937    42142    62901    20759
8       30154      5139      3167              38460    33144    90371    57227
9       29504      5875      3654              39033    33932   133022    99090
10       25998      5758      3654              35410    31373   159693   128320
11       26208      5758      3654              35620    31875   178138   146263
12       25172      5758      3654              34584    30786   182832   152046
13       38217      5758      3654              47629    42582   185822   143240
14       24806      5758      3654              34218    29052   185822   156770
15       27756      5758      3654              37168    31678   185822   154144
16       28376      5758      3654              37788    32714   185822   153108
17       27276      5758      3654              36688    31614   185822   154208
18       23976      5758      3654              33388    28314   185822   157508
19       25476      5758      3654              34888    29814   185822   156008
20       23976      5758      3654              33388    28314   185822   157508
21       23849      5758      3654              33261    28314   183915   155601
22       23631      5758      3654              33043    28237   180663   152426
23       23417      5758      3654              32829    28160   176910   148750
24       23204      5758      3654              32616    28083   172837   144754
25       23021      5758      3654              32433    28028   168975   140947
26       22733      5758      3654              32145    27885   165483   137598
27       22501      5758      3654              31913    27786   161451   133665
28       22272      5758      3654              31684    27867   156274   128407
29       22044      5758      3654              31456    27588   150771   123183
30       21793      5758      3654              31205    27467   146337   118870
Ek Z=           21
*SCF of 0.84 applied to local costs.
**Derived from Annex 5-1 Table 1 and Annex 5-4 Tables 10-12
with MCS production be'g valued in terms of FFB at 1OZ of
palm oil price.



ANNEX  5-4
NIGERIA                                                        TABLE 2
TREE CROPS PROJECT
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NETSTREAMS
ECONOMIC
BTOT      UP I,X      UP 20G      UP 50X    DOWN 10%    DOWN 20%    DOWN 50%  LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAS 3 YEARS
CTOT               21.395      23.009       24.514      28.530       19.651       17.747      10.490       18.592      16.455       14.763
UF 10%7            19.816      21.395       22.867      26.787       18.107       16.238       9.046       17.249      15.281       13.717
UP 20%             18.402      19.952       21.395      25,232       16.722       14.881       7.722       16.040      14.220       12.770                       1
UP 50&             14.891      16.368       17.747      21.395       13.260       11.467       4.225       13.002      11.539       10.366                      co
DGON 10%          23.181       24.836       26.382      30.509       21.395       19.448      12.087       20.103      1 .769       15.930                      
DOWN 20%          25.232       26.937       28.530      32.787       23,394      21,395       13.885       21.827      19.262       17.251
DiiGUi 50%        34.066       35.996       37.802      42.632       31.989      29.736       21.395       29.126      25.508       22.726
LAG I YEAR              -           -            -            -           -            -           -       21.395      18.5S2       16.455
LAG 2 YEARS             -           -            -            -           -            -           -            -      21.395       18.592
LAG 3 YEAR:S            -           -            -            -           -            -           -            -           -       21.395
SWITCHING VALuES AT 12%
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    iERCENTAGEE
STREAN                  VALUE        VALUE         CHANGE
BTOT              619,940.55   342,453.82         -44.76%
CTGT              3420453.82   619P940,55          81.03%
-- --- --- ---  -- --- --- --- --- --  --- --- --- ----_
Net Present Value at 0CC 12% = 277,486.7
Internal Rate of Return = 21.4Z
Couwon Eouivalent Rate of Return = 22.7z



ANNEE 5-4
NICER}A                                                        TABLE 3
TREE CROPS PROJECT
NUCLBJS ESTATE FIELD ESTABLISHtENT COST (NAIRA/HA)
YEAR 0            YEAR 1            YEAR 2            YEAR 3            TOTAL             MATUE
UNIT   !LRIT   IUNrT   ICOST   |UNIT   ICOST   IUNIT   ICOST   IUNIT   ICOST   !L?NIT   ICOST    IMNIT   ICOST    I
ICOST    I                          I                 I            I         I        I        I        I            I
I. LABOR                         I        I        I                                                              i        | I  I
LAND SURVEY              MD      |  6.401   1.00v    6.401           I        I        I        I         I        I  1.001   6.401           I        i
FELLING, UNDBJBRSHINC   MD           6 8.40 I 10.00 1 64.0C I        I        I        I        I         I        I 10.00 I 64.00 1          |        |
CQAIN SAW OP5tATOR       MD      |  6.40 I  4.00 I 25.60 1           1        1        I         I        I        I  4.00 | 25.60 I          I
STACKING, W.RNINrO       MD          6.401   7.001  44.801           I                          j         9        9  7.00!  44.80
LININC                   MD      I  6.40      1.501   9.60 |                  I |               I        I        I  1.50!   9.60 |
COVt CROP SOWINC         MD      I  6.401   0.501   3.201            I                          I         I        I  0.501   3.2v1           I        I
SUPPLYIN                 MD      |  6.40      0.00     0.001         I        I        I                  I        14.00 125.601              1
HOLINO, PLANTING         MD      I  6.40 |  4.00 I 25.60 |  2.00 I 12.81 I  1.00 I  6.40 |                I        1  3.00 | 19.20 |          I        I
STRIP WEEING             MD          6.40 I  6.00 I 38.40 1  4.00 I 25.60 I  2.00 I 12.80 I  2.00 I 12.80 I 14.00 I 89.60 I  1.00 1  6.40
CIRCLE WEEDING           MD      I  6.40 1  5.00 I 32.00 I  6.00 I S8.40 I  4.00 1 25.60 1  3.00 1 19.20 1 18.00 I 115.20 1  2.00 I 12.80
PEST A DISEASE CONTROL  MD       I  6.40 I  2.00 I 12.80 I  2.00 I 12.60 I  2.00 I 12.80 I  1.00 I  6.40 I  7.00    " 44.80 s            1.00 I  6.40
MANURINC                 MD      I  6.40 f  3.50 S    22.40 I  2.00 I 12.80 I  2.00 I 12.80 I  2.00 1 12.80 I  9.50 I 60.80 I  2.00 I 12.80
CASTRATION/PRUNINC       MD  |    6.40 I  0.00 I  0.00 I             I        I  3.10 '   19.20 I  2.00 I 12.80 I  5.00 j 32.00 I  2.00 I 12.80 I
HARVESTINC               MD      I  6.401   0.00       0.001         I        I                 i         I        I  0.00D    0.00 130.00 1192.00|
ROAD k TRUCKS            MD      |  6.40      2.00 112.801           i        I        I        I         I           2.001  12.801           I                                   1
|   |      |       ~~~~~~~1-------- --------- -------- I-------- --------l  -------- -------- -------- --------                          CtD
SUB-TOTAL                                46.50   297.60    16.00   102.40     14.00 '  9.60    10.00     64.D00   86.5S'1   553.60    3S.00   243.20                        %0v
_________            ~I       I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I         I        i        II
II. MATERIAL &  EQUIPMENT        I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I         I        I        I
_____ ____ _____ ___           I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I        i        I        i        I
TRACTOR D                MR      1160.001   2.50 1400.00D            I        I        i        I         I        I  2.50   400.00           I 1
TRACTOR 06               HR         85.00     5.00 1425.001          I        I        I        I         I        I  5.00 1425.00 1          1
LOADER/CRADER            HR      I 60.00 |  1.00 I 60.00 i  1.00 I 60.00 1  0.50 1 30.00 1  0.30 1 18.00 I  2.80 I 168.00 I  0.30 1 18.00
WHEEL TRACTOR            HR         16.00 I  4.50 I 72.00 I  1.00    16.00 1  1.00 I 16.00          1.00 I 16.00 I  7.50 I 120.00 I  1.00 I 16.00
TRUCKS                   KM      I  2.80 1 2' 00   70.00 |  5.00 I 14.00 I  5.00 I 14.00 |  5.00 I 14.00 I 40.00 I 112.00 I 50.00 I 140.00 I
CHAIN SAW                DAY     I 25.00  | .. 0 D   50.00 I  0.00 I  0.00          1 1    0.00 I         I  0.00 I  2.00 I 50.00 I  0.00 I  0.00 I
FUEL (BlRNINC)           L       |  0.30 I 20.00 I  6.00 I  0.00 I  0.00 I             I  0.00 I         I  0.00 I 20.00 I  6.00 |  0.00 I  0.00 I
COVER CROPS SEED         KG      I 10.00 I  8.00 I 80.00 I  0.00         0.00          1  0.00 I0.00 i                8.00 1 80.00 1  0.00 f  0.00 I
FERTILIZERS              KG      I  0.66 I 172.00   113.52 I 138.00 I 91.08 I 276.00 i 182.16 I 276.00 I 182.16 I 862.00 I 568.92 1 276.00 I 182.16 I
WEEDICIDE                KG      I 22.00 |  4.00 I 88.00 I  0.00 I  0.00 I  1.00 1 22.00 I  1.00 I 22.00 I  6.00 I 132.00 I  1.00 1 22.00 1
PESTICIDE                KG      I 40.00 I  0.00 I  0.00 I  0.0  1  0.00 1  0.60 1 24.00 I  0.^0           8.00 I  0.80 1 32.00 I  0.30 I 12.00 1
RATBAIT                  KG      I  8.00 I  6.00 I 48.00 I  6.00    48.00 I  4.00 I 32.00 I  2.00 I 16.00 1 18.00 I 144.00 I  0.00 I  0.00 I
WIRE                     M2      I  4.00 | 15.00 I 60.00   I 1.SD I  6.00 I  0.80 1  3.20 I               1  0.00 | 17.30 1 69.20 I  0.00 t  0.00
PLANTINC MATERIAL        PLANT   I  3.98 I 143.00    569.14 I 14.00 I 55.72 I  7.00 I 27.86 I           |  0.00 | 164.00 I 652.72 I0.0 O        0.00 0
LAND ACQUISITION                          1        1200.00 1   O.OD    0.00            I  0.00            I        I       1200.00
SMALL TOOLS                      |        |        129.801           I  9.301          I  8.50 |             6.40          154.00             I 20.601
(+- lOY OF LABOR)                                 --------          --------          --------          --------          --------          --------
SUB-TOTAL II                          I        12271.46 1        I 300.10 I        I 359.72 I        1 282.56 1         13213.84 1        1 410.76 1
_________  - ___I                      I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I         I        I        I
TOTAL I + II                  I        1        12569.06 I        | 402.50 I          449.32 I         1 346.56 1       13767.44 1         1 653.96 1
(FILE NAIE: AS-4T3-6) (A1.ADS6)



ANNEX j-4
NIGCRIA                                                           TABLE 4
TREE CROPS PROJECT
SDtJ FIELD ESTABLISHMET COST (N/HA)
YEAR 0           YEAR 1            YEAR 2            YEAR 3            TOTAL              MATURE
UNIT   9UNIT   9UNIT   ICOST   JUNIT   ICOST   9UNCT   ICOST   ILIIT    ICOST    IUNIT   9COST   IUNIT   ICOST
ICOST    9       9        I
X. LA8R                         9        I        9        9
_____                 | ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I  I  I   I        I       I        I        I        I        I        I                 I
SLRVEY                  MD       9  6.401   1.009   6.40            I        I 1        1               I        9  1.001   6.40 1
LHOCRORSHIN0 MD                     4.80   10.00  4800I                                                           10.00   48.00             I 1
FELLING                 MD       96.401   5.00 132.00 ;             1                                            I  5.00   32.00            I
STACKING. RLRNINC       MD          4.80 1  5.00 1 24.00 9          9        I        I        I        I        I  5.00 9 24.00 9          9       1
LINING                  MD       9  6.401   1.50    9.601           9                 I                 I        1  1.50    9.601
COVER CROP SWING        MD       9  4.80     0.50|       2.40 i     I             I                I    i           0.50    2.40 1
HOLINC. PLANTINC        MD    i    4.80    4.00    19.20            i        I                 I        I        i  4.00    19.20           i
SUPPLYINC               MD       9  4.80 1  0.00 9  0.00 1  2.50 1 12.00 1  1.00 1  4.80 9              1        9  3.50 9 16.80 9          1        1
STRIP WEEDI             MD          4.80 i  5.00 9 24.00 I  5.00 9 24.00 1  2.00 1  9.60 9  2.00 1  9.60 I 14.00 9 67.20 1  4.00 9 19.20 1
CIRCLE WEEDIN            C MD       4.80  1 3.00  ; 14.40 9 10.00 9 48.00  ; 7.00  1 33.60 I  6.00  ; 28.80 9 26.00 9 124.80 9  8.00  1 38.40
PEST & DISEASE CONTROL  MD       9  4.80 9  2.00 1  9.60 9  2.00 9  9.60 9  1.00 9  4.80 I  1.00 1  4.80 9  6.00 9 28.80 1  1.00 1  4.80
KMRING                  MD          4.80 I  1.00 9  4.80 9  1.00 i  4.80 9  1.00 9  4.80 9  1.00 1  4.80 9  4.00 1 19.20 9  1.00 9  4.80
CASTRATION/PRUNING      MD       i  4.80 9  0.00 9  0.00 9          9        9  3.00 9 14.40 9  2.00 1  9.60 9  5.00 I 24.00 1  3.00 1 14.40
HARVESTINGC             MD          4.809   0.009   0.00            9        9        9        9        9        9  0.001  0.00   20.00   96.009
RtD A TRUCKS            MD       96.40    2.00 12.80                9        9        9        9 i        I2.00    12.80 1                          9 1
I   :   I   I   I   I   I   I      I        I I               I        I        I                          s
SUB-TOTAL                            f 9 40.00 1 207.20 | 20.50 1 98.40 1 15.00 1 72.00 1 12.00 1 57.60 1 87.50 S   435.20 1 37.00 1 177.60 1                              o
I1. MATERIAL   EQUIPNT          9        9        9        9        9        9        I        9        9        9       9        9        9
____________________ ~~~~~  I   I                 I      I I      I        I        I       I        I                 I        Ii  
TRACTOR D8              HR       9 160.00 I  2.00 1 320.00 9  0.00 I         I  0.00 10.00 I                     9  2.00 1 320.00 9         ;
TRACTOR D6              HR         65.00C    4.00  340.009   0.00 I                   9                 I 1          4.00  340.00           9 1
LOADER/GRADER           HR       9 60.00 9  1.00 9 60.00 9  1.00 9 60.00 9  0.50 9 30.00 9  0.30 9 18.00 9  2.80 I 168.00 9  0.30 9 18.00
WHEEL TRACTOR           HR       9 16.00 9  2.00 9 32.00 9  0.00    0.00 C            9  0.00 1         ;  0.00 |  2.00 9 32.00
TRUCKS                  KM       9  2.80 9 40.00 ,  112.00   3 30.00 9 84.00 9 26.00 9 72.80 I 20.00 9 56.00 9 116.00 9 324.80 9 90.00 9 252.00,
CHAIN SAW               DAY      9 25.00 9  2.50 9 62.50 9  0.00 9  0.00 9            9  0.00 i         1  0.00 9  2.50 9 62.50 9          9        9
RJEL (EURIINC)          L        9  0.30 | 10.00 9  3.00 9  0.00 9  0.00              1  0.00 9            0.00 9 10.00 |  3.00 |          i        I
COVOR CROPS SEED        KG       9 10.00 I  8.00 9 80.00 9  0.00 9  0.00 9            9  0.00 9         |  0.00 9  8.00 9 80.00 9           9        I
FERTILIZERS             KG       9  0.66 9 172.00 9 113.52 9 138.00 9 91.08 9 276.00 9 182.16 9 276.00 9 182.16 9 862.00 1 568.92 9 276.00 9 182.16 1
WIRE                    M2       9  4.00 | 15.00 | 60.00 I  2.30 9  9.20         1.50 9  6.00 9         |  0.00 9 18.80 i 75.20
RATBAIT                 KG       9  8.00 9  6.00 | 48.00 9  6.00 9 48.00 9  4.00 9 32.00 9  2.00 9 16.00 9 18.00 I 144.00
PLANTIN  MATERIAL       PLANT   9  3.98 9 143.00   5 S69.14 9 15.00 9 59.70 9  8.00 9 31.84 9           |  0.00 9 166.00 1 660.68
SMALL TOOLS                      9       I        9        I  0.00           9        90.00             90.00       0.00     0.00
(101 OF LABOR COST)             9        I        9 20.70 9         9  9.80 9         i  6.20 9        1  6.20 9  0.00 9 42.90 9           9 20.20
HERBICIDE               KG       9 22.00 I  0.00 9         9        9        9  1.00   22'.00 9  1.00 i 22.00 9  2.001  44.00 9            9        9
PESTICIDE               KG       940.00      0.00          9        9 i          0.60   24.00;  (`'09   8.00;   0.80   32.00               9        i
I I I I I i I I I I I i I9
SUB-TOTAL II                  |        9       11820.86 I        9 361.78 1        9 407.00 1        1 308.36 9        12898.00 1       ; 472.36 1
____________                          I        I             I            I                          I        I        I        I                I 9
TOTAL I    1I1                                 12028.06          9 460.18          9479.00           1 365.96 1        13333.20 I         649.96 9
(FILE_NAME:_A__ T6A4        8 _ _                        I                I                 I        I        I        I        i       I
(FILE KAE: AS-4T3-6) (A147.A028)



ANNEX 5-4
NIOCRIA                                     TABLE S
TREE CROPS PROJECT
MIXED CROP SMAUHL^DERS (MCS) FIELD DEVELOPMENT COST (NAIRA/IA)
YEAR 0            i:'R 1           Y2AR 2            YEAR 3            TOTAL              MATUE
----     - --_-- - --              _- -----          --- ---           -- ---             - -- ---
U#NIT   IUNIT   1UN4T    lC0ST    UNIrT   ICOST   ILN1T   ICOST    IUNIT ICOST   (UNrT   ICOST   lUNIT    ICOST
ICOST                                           I        I        I             I
Z. ULAM                                                                     t        f          
__ _                        I       I        I        I        I        III                                IIII
UERRSHNC/Fa.Li          MD          4.80 118.00   86.401            I        I        I        I        I       l18.00    86.40            I
STrOoUN - IRINC         MD       |4.80    5.00   24.00C  |            |               I |        |        |         5.00   24.00 |                  I
L d                     MD    |    4.801   2.001   9.601            I                 1 I      I        I |         2.001   9.601   1               I
HO1.D4 - PLANTINCO      MD          4.801   6.001  28.80       1.001   4.801          1        1        1       1  7.001  33.601           1        1
MANRIN:                 MD       14.80       1.00|  4.80 |                                                          1.001   4.80 |         |
CDV:LE WEEDINO          MD          4.80    10.00 I 48.00    10.00 I 48.00    10.00 I 48.00 I  8.00    3 88.40 1 38.00 I 182.40 1  8.00 I 38.40 1
PRNIDN                  MD      I  4.80    o.oo       0.00o  |               3        I        1  2.001   9.60|  2.CO|  9.60    2.00|  9.601
HARVESTIC               MD          4.01 0.00   0.o0                I        I        I |               I                I        |12.00   57.601
SU8-TOTAL                     I        I 42.00 I 201.60    11.00 I 52.80    10.00 I 48.00    10.00 I 48.00 I 73.00 I 350.40 I 22.CJ I 105.60
1I. MATERIAL A eUIPMT M                  I        I        I        I        I        t        I       I        |I                         I
TRUOCS                  KM       12.80 10.00 128.00 i                        I        I        I        I       110.001  28.001            1        1
CKUN SAW                DAY      125.00 13.001  76.001              1                 1        1        1       13.00 175.001                       I
WDIE                    M2       14.00    .001  32.001              1        1        1        1        1        |  8.00   32.001          1        1
FERTILIZES              KC       I  0.66 13.001 25.081              1        1        1        1        1       138.00 125.08 1
(ROOt PHOSPHATE)                0.00   0.00   0.00              I        I       I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I
PLANTINC MATERLAL       PLT      I  4.00 I 75.00 I 300.00 I  8.00 1 32.00 1           1        1        1       1 83.00 I S32.00  D                1
SMALL TOOLS             SM       I       I        1 20.40 |             5.201         1  3.001          1  3.00 |31.601                    | 10.401
SU1.-TOTAL II                 I       I          480.48 I        I 37.20 I         1  3.00 1         1  3.00 1        1 523.68 1        I 10.40 1
I       I        I        I        I        I        I        I       I        I        I        I        I        I
TOTAL I A II                  I       1          682.08 1        1 90.00 I         I 51.00 I         I S1.00 1        1 874.08 1        1 116.00 1
I       I        I        I        I        I        I        I        i       I         I       I        I        I
(FILE MAME: As-4T3-6) (A57.ADIOO)



ANNEX 5-4
NICERIA               TABLE 6
TREE CROPS PRDJECT
OIL PALM NULSERY  (NM; SOU; MCS)
COST/PLANT (NAIR)
YEAR 0           YEAR 1            TOTAL
UNIT   IUNrIT   IUNIT    ICOST   IUNIT   ICOST   lUNrT   [COST    I
ICOST   I        I        I        I        I
I_ LABR                          _       I _               I _               I _               I
I.    IBS                             I        I        I        I       I        I        I
SITE PREPARATION        MD       I  6.40 I  4.50 I 28.80 I          I        1  4.50 1 28.80 1
LIMING SEEDLING         MD       I  6.40  I1.0O  I  6.40 I  0.50 I  3.20   I l.SO        9 0.60
FILLIG S1AY BAGS        MD          6.40 1  1.00 I  6.40 I          I  0.00 I  1.00 1  6.40
FILLINO POLY SACS       MD       I  6.40 I  2.50 1 16.00 1          I  0.00 I  2.50 I 16.00 I
ANURINQ/SPRAYINQ        MD       |  6.40 |  2.00 | 12.80 |  1.00 I  6.40 |  3.00    19.20 |
WUEING                  MD       I  6.40 o    4.00 I 25.60 I  3.00 I 19.20 I  7.00 j 44.80
WATERXN                 MD          6.40 I  0.50 I  3.20 I  0.50 I  3.20 I  1.00 I  6.40
CUJTNG a OTHEst          MD      I  5.40     1.60 I  9.60 I  1.00       8 a.40 1  2.50    16.00 1
S9.-TOTAL I                   I        I 17.00   108.80 I  6.00 I 38.40 I 23.00 1 147.20 I
II. MATERIAL                     I       I        I        I        I         
_                     I       !        I        I        I        I        I        I
WEEL TRACTOR            HR          8 16.00 I  0.70 I 11.20 1  0.30 I  4.80 0    1.00 1 16.00 1
CS4INATED SEWS         LwIT        0.S0 I 285.00 I 142.50 I        I  0.00 I 285.00 I 142.50 I
BABY POLY BACS           N           0.10 I 265.00 I 28.50 I        I  0.00 I 285.00 1 28.50 1
LARGE POLY SACS        WLT m        0.40 I 250.00  100.00 I           0.00 1 250.00 1 100.00 1
FERTILIZERS             KG       I  0.66 I  5.00 I  3.30 1 69.00 1 45.54 1 74.00 1 48.84 1
MER8ICIOES              KG       I 22.00 I  O.SO I 11.00 I          1  0.00 1  O.SO    11.00 I
FUINICIDES              KG       I 40.00 I  0.10 1  4.00 I              0.00 1  0.10 I  4.00 1
INSECTICIDSS            KG      I 24.00 I  O.,0 I 12.00 I  1.00 I 24.00 1  1.50 I 35.00 1
WATERUC                 M3       1  0.10 1 60.00 I  6.00 I 180.00  1 .8.00 I 240.00 1 24.00 I
SMALL TOOLS                                          10.00              4.00             14.001
SU8-TOTAL II                  I        I       1328.50          I 96.34 I         t424.841
TOTAL I + II                           1 t       437.30 1        1 134.74 1        1572.04 i
NOTE: COST PER PLANT  672 / 143  NAtIRA 4.00
(FILE NAME: AS-4T3-6) (AIOI.A4146)



AM4EX 5-4
TABLE 7
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJET
SDU ElDCET FOR 1 HA OF OIL PAUL
CllSTAtT NAIRA 1989
0     I    1      9    2      I    3       I    4      1    5      I    6      1    7         8 - 19   1 20 - 25   1 26 - 30
YIID TON/HA                    I           I           I           I                  3 .50       5.00       6.501       8.On        10.001       9.001       8.001
PRICE NAIRA/TON                I    298.00             I           I           I           I           I           I           i           |            I           I
GROSS REVEUE                   I           I           I           I           9  1,049.00    1,490.00 I  1,937.00    2,384.00 I  2,wo.0n 9  2,682.00 I  2,384.00 1
TOTAL COST                     I  2,028.00 I    460.00 I    479.00 I    366.00 ,    410.00 I    410.00 I    410.00 I    410.00 I    410.00 I    410 00 9    410.00 1
BEEFIT 8EFDRE  PUT LEVY        I           I           I           i           9    633.00 I  1,080.00 I  1,52- '0 9  1,974.00 I  2,570.00    2,272.00 I  1,974.00
II LEVIY                                                                                        3 I  I        320.001    4162     512.001    640.001    1           1
NEr 88QEFrT                                                                    |    638.00 I    760.00 I  1,111.t '   1,462.00 I  1,930.00 1  2,272.00 1  1,974.00 1
VARIABLE COST                  I           I           I           I           I    410.00 9    410.00 9    410.00 I    410.00 9    410.00 1    410.00 I    410.00 1
CROSS ARCIN                    I (2.CQ8.00) 1   (460.00)|   (479.00) t   (366.00)1  1,043.00 1  1,170.00 1  1,521.00 1  1,872.00 1  2,340.00 9  2,682.00 1  2,384.00 I
FAR  LABOR VOT  (M)            |     30.50 |     20.50 1     15.00 1     12.00 I     37.00 1     37.00 |     37.00 |     37.00 1      37.00 1     37.00 1     37.00 |
GROSS RErLN PER 10             |    (66.49)1    (22.44)1    (31-93)1    (30.50)1     28.19 1     20.54 1     30.03 1     39.51 |      52.16 1     72.49 1     64.43 1
V#VrS/SBMCES RS RON PA            1,291.70 I    292.10 I    369.00 9    302.20 I    232.40 I           I           I           I           I            I           I
ULATIE                         I  1,291.70 9  1,583.80 I  1.952.80 9  2,255.00 I  2,487.40
INTRST AT 14S                  9     90.42      291.70      5 539.27 9    833.82 1  1,165.78 1         I           1           1           1           1
I           I           I           I           I           I           I           I           I           I           i            I
DIPUT COST TO ilE REOVERED   t(166 * 2487 * 3653 X 0.162809 X 15)]                            8,921.12
TOTAL FF8 SOD IN 15 YEAtS (T)                                                                    139.5
LEVY/TON FFR                                                                                     63.95
1/ 8SAM ON NAIPA 2.400/TON OF OIL AND ADAPALM PRICE FtL4LA
(FIIE NAME: A1NS-4T7.WK1)



ANNEtC 5-4
NICERIA                          TABLE 8(a)
TREE CROPS PROJECT
MYXD CROPS SMIALLiOLDERS BUDCET FOR 1 HA OF OIL PALM (NO SSIOY)
CONSTANT NAMA 1989
I    0      I    1      1    2      1    3      1    4      1    S      |    6      1  7 - 20   1 21 - 25   1 26 - 30   1  TOTAL    I
YIELD FFB TON/HA               I           I           I           I           I      1.50        2.00 1      3.00 1      4.00 1      3.50 1       3.00 I     95.00 1
FARM CATE PRICE NAIRA/TONI/ l       243.00 1           1           1           1           I           I           I           I           I           I           I
ONOSS REVENLJE                             I |         I           I           1    364.50 I    486.00 I    729.00 I    972.00 I    850.50 1    729.00 1 23,065.00
TOTAL COST                     I    682.00 1     90.00 I     51.00 I     51.00 1    116.00 |    116.C00     116.00 1    116.00 |    116.00 1    116.00 1  4.006.00 |
GROSS MARGIN                   I   (682.00)1    (90-00)l    (51.00)1    (51-00)1    248.50 I    870.00 1    613.00 1    856.00 1    734.50 1    613.00 1 19,079.00 1
FAMRt  LABOR IPUTS (i)         I     42.00 I     11.00 I     lO.QO I     10.00 I     22.00 I     22.00 I     22.00 1     22.00 1     22.00 1      22.00 I    667.00 I
OtOSS REVENUE PER MMN DAY      I           I           I           I           I     16.57 1     22.09 1     33.14        44.18 i     38.66 1     33.14 I     34.61 1
tOSS MARGIN PER MAN DAY        I           I           I           I           I     11.30 1     16.82 1     27.86 I     38.91 I      33.39 I     27.86 I     28.60
1/ BASE ON PALM OIL PRICE AT NAIRA 2,400 OR 243 NAIRA/TON FFB AT PRIVATE MILLS.
(FILE NAME: MICOROP.W1)
AN  5-4
TABLE 8(b)
NICERIA                                                                             >
TREE CtROPS PROJECT
MDIX CROPS SMALLHOLIS SUX ET FOR 1 HA OF OIL PALM
30S SUJSMIES FOR PLANTI  MATERIAL
(CONSTANT NAIRA 1989)
I    0      I    1      1    2      |    3      1    4      |    5      |    6      1  7 - 20   1 21 - 25   1 26 - SO   I  TOTAL   I
YIBD FFB TON/HA                I           I           I           I           I      1.50 I      2.00 I      3.00 1      4.00 ,      3.50        3 3.00 1    95.00 I
FARM CATE PRICE NAIRA/TON 1/    I    243.00 1          1           1           1           1           1           1           1           1           1
CROSS REVS4                    I           I           I           I           1    364.50 I    486.00 I    729.00 I    972.00       M 850.50 1    729.00 I 23,085.00
TOTAL COSt                     I    682.00 I     90.00 1     51.00 I     51.00 1    116.00 I    116.00 1    116.00 1    116.00       116.00 I    116.00 I  4,006.00 I
SUUSIDIE 2/                          9 00.001     9.60 1           1           1           1           1           1                                   i
FARME COST                     I    592.00 I     80.40 I     51.00 I     51.00 I    116.00 I    116.00 |    116.00 1    116.00 1    116.00 1    116.00 1  3,906.40 1
GROSS MARGIN                   I   (592.00)1    (80.40)1    (51.00)1    (51.00)1    248.50 1    370.00 1    613.00 I    856.00 1    734.50 1    613.00 1 19,178.60 1
FARM LABOR INUT (MD)          I      42.0C       11.00   1  10.00 I      10.00   1  22.00   1  22.00 I       22.00 I     22.00   |  22.00 I      22.00 I    667.00
GOOSS REVEBA PER MAN DAY       I           I           I           I           1     16.57 I     22.09       3 33.14 I   44.18 I     38.66 I     33.14       3 34.61
MMOSS MARGIN PER MAN DAY       I           I           I           I           I     11.30 I     16.82 I     27.86 I     38.91 I     33.39 1     27.86 I     28.75
1/ B9  ON PALM OIL PRICE AT MAIRA 2.400 OR 243 NAIRA/TON FF9 AT PRIVATE HILLS.
2/ 75 PALMS*4 NAIRA*.3 FOR YR.0; 8 PALMS*4 NAIRA..3 FOR YR.1
(FILE NAME: AS-4T8)



ANNEX 5
TABLE 9
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
WILD PALM GROVE
COST OF HARVESTING AND PROCESSING
---------------------------------
I      UNIT            COSTS
1. FF YIELD TON/PER HA           1      2.00 1
2. COST OF HARVESTING:           I            |              I
- COST PER BUNCH (N)1/       1            |         0.75
- BUNCHES PER TON            I      7S.00
- COST PER TON (N)           I            I        66.25
- COST PER HA                                        I I  150
- ON 4.8/MD, MD PER TON      I            1        11.721
a. VALUE OF OIL EXTRAClED:       l            l
TRADITIONAL METHOD 2/        1                           I
ASSUME EXTRACTION RATE:      I       0.08 I              |
ASSUME OIL PRICE  N/T        I       2400 1 
CPO YIELD / KG             l            l           CO 
VALUE OF OIL  (N)            I            1          1441
SO/60 SHARE OF OIL           I            I           72
RETURN TO OWNER            IN/HA                  31.5 1
RETURN TO OWNER            IN/T                  16.75 1
RETURN TO OWNER PER MD     IN           I        1.344 1
MODERN PROCESSING 4/       1            l              l
EXTRACTION RATE              l       0.09 I              1
CPO YIELD /HA (KQ)           I            1          is1   1
OIL VALUE                    |            I          432 1
COST OF PURCHASE N/T                  103
- RETURN TO OWNER          IN/HA        I         93.6I
- RETURN TO OWNER          IN/T         I        46.75 I
- RETURN TD OWNER PER MD   IN           I         3.99 I
I           I               I
1/ COST OF HARVESTING AND CARRYING:.5+.2.=.7JSN
2/ TRADITIONAL METHOD OF SHARING VALUE OF OIL IS 60/60. THE PROCESSOR
RETAINS THE KERNEL.
8/ FFB/T PRICE NAIRA 103 WHEN PALM OIL PRICE IS NAIRA 2400/T. SOCFINCO
ADAPALM FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT, PART III, ANEX 6.2.4.
(FILE NAME: ANXS-4T9.WK1)



ANNEX 6-4
TABLE 10
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
ECONMIC AND FINANCIAL PRICE FOR PALM OIL IN 1989 CONSTANT TERUS
--------------------------------------------------------------__
ECONOMIC                     FINANCIAL
19891   19961   2000         19891   19961   2000
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__---------..-----
C.I.F. EUROPE US$/TON A/         I 448.00 I 631.701  617.00    448.00 I 631.701  617.00
LESS                             IIII                                              
FREIGHT, INSURANCE B/            I  32.00 I  32.00 I  32.00 II  32.00 I  32.00 1  32.00 I
(1) C.I.F. LAGOS US3/TON         I 480.00 I 883.70 | 649.00 II 480.00 I 683.70 I 649.00 |
I        I        I         11         1        1         i
(2) C.I.F. LAGOS NAIRA/TON C/    1 2237.00 I 3093.00 I 3024.00 II 223t.00 1 3093.00 1 3024.00
PORT HANDLING D/             I  47.00 I  47.00 |  47.(0 CI    47.00 1  47.00 1  47.00
PORT CHARGES D/              1  42.00 I  42.00 I  42.00 II  42.00 1  42.00 1  42.00 1
TRlNSPORT (PORT TO MILL) E/    |  82.00 I  82.00 I  82.00 II  82.00 |  82.00I   82.00 t
(3) TOTAL INLAND COSTS           I 171.00 I 171.00 I 171.00 II 171.00 I 171.00 1 171.00
(4) IN 199 TERMS F/              I 205.00 I 205.00 I 205.00 II  205.00 | 205.00 I 205.00 I
(6) API'LYING SCF (0.84) F/      1 172.00 I 172.00 I 172.00 II          I         I        I
(6) PRICE PER TON AT MILL GATE   I 2409.00 I 3286.00 1 3196.00 II 2442.00 I 3298.00 1 3229.00
A/ FROI IBRD COMMODITY PRICE FORECASTS DATED JANUARY 27, 1988
B/ FROI SOCFINCO FEASIBILITY STUDY PART II ANNEX 9 (PAGE 211)
C/ CONfERSION RATE USED: NAIRA 4.Y7 = USSI
D/ STAPF ESTIMATE
E/ FROId SOCFINCO ADAPALM FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT PART II ANNEX 9, PAGE 211
F/ APPLIED LOCAL INFLATION FACTOR 0.20
(FILE iNAME: ANNEX"-4.WK1)



ANNEX 5-4
TABLE 11
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PRICE FOR PALM KERNEL IN 1989 CONSTANT TERMS
ECONOMIC                      FINANCIAL
I   19891    19951    2000         19891    19951    2000 j
C.I.F. EUROPE USS/TON A/          I 238.00 I 345.20 I 346.20 II  238.00 I 346.20 I 346.20
LESS                              I         I         1         11         1         1         1
FREIGHT, INSURANCE 8/             I  48.00 I  48.00 I  48.00 II  48.00 1  48.00 1  48.00 1
F.O.8. PORT HARCOURT USSJTON      I 190.00 1 297.20 I 297.20 11  190.00 1 297.20 1 297.20 1
NAIRA/TON /                     I 885.40 1 1385.00 I 1386.00   15885.40 I 1385.00 I 1385.00 I
LESS
PORT HANDLING D/                j (47.00) 1 (47.00) I (47.00) jj         I         I
PORT CHARGES D/                 I (42.00) I (42.00) I (42.00) II         j
TRANSPORT (MILL TO PORT) E/     I (82.00) 1 (82.00) 1 (82.00) Ij         j         I
TOTAL INLAND COSTS              1(171.00) 1(171.00) 1(171.00) II         I         I         I
I        I         I         11         1         1         1I
IN 1989 TERMS F/                1(20S.00) 1(205.00) 1(205.00) 11(205.00) 1(205.00) 1(205.00) I
APPLYING SCF (0.84) F/           1'172.00) 1(172.00) 1(172.00) II         |         |         I
PRICE/TON AT MILL GATE (NAIRA)    l 711.40 j 1211.00 1 1211.00 II  680.40 | 1180.00 I 1180.00 1
A/ FROM IBRD COMMODITY PRICE FORECASTS DATED JANUARY 22, 1988
B/ FROM SOCFINCO ADAPALM FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT, PART II, ANNEX 9 (PACE 211)
C/ CONVERSION RATE USED: NAIRA 4.87 = USS1
D/ STAFF ESTIMATE
E/ FROM SOCFINCO ADAPALM FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT, PART II, ANNEX 9 (PAGE 211)
F/ APPLIED LOCAL INFLATION FACTOR 0.20
(FILE NAME: ANNEXS-4.WK1)



ANNEX S-4
TABLE 12
NIGERIA
TREE CROPS PROJECT
PURCHASE PRICE OF DURA FF8 FROM WILD PALM GROVES
------------------------------------------------
PALM OIL PRICE I/       FF9 PURCHASE PRICE 2/
YEAR  ECONOMIC   FINANCIAL   ECONOMIC   FINANCIAL
-------------------------------------------------------
1989 I 2409.00 I 2442.00 11   103.00 1   103.00
199S I 3286.00 1 3298.00 II   175.00 I   176.00 1
2000 1 3198.00 1 3229.00 11   175.00 I   175.00 I
1/ FROM ANNEX 5-4 TABLE 10
2/ SOCFINCO ADAPALM FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORTII,
TABLE 6-2-4 (FARIUGATE VALUE)
(FILE NAME: AX6-4T12.WX1)                                                                                         0



MAP SECTION



t                    '   n~~~~~~~~~orin
Z                                                                                                         Mnkurdi
ibadan
w1]                                          Akure
Ab9okuta
f                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~* _J0
|   -LAGOS                                CityEnugu
Benin City                                                                     0
.--~~~~~4
N I G  E R I A                                                         .\                                  o
TREE CROPS PROJECT                                                         Owerri
Isohyeta In mm                                                                                   o        5       100
*  state capitals                                                           -     Uyo   alabar           KLOTERS
  National capital                                      Port-                                                 -,
Harcourt*
FRivers
State boundarles                                             .                                                        w
m _  Intematlonal boundaries
at                                                                                                                                           -A_._t



IBRD 21062
Xia  ,_+~'>'~'pKoIrob  >'~ _ _,bx  v            N  I G  E R                                                 ,_   $      s  ' C H A D
N '. I                                                      G5~L E R X  A~urEu < 1> i ; T CTSINA $Xz jurv , . . < -- "" , $NI\
ATSINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0/                                              K                                                                      H
\  /  J.5o  ~~~~~~~~~Givav.  ~~~~~~oK ~~A    N    0
V     V                nkS                                                                                                                             A3 E                Nj r
zAo
In                            A A                                                                                                     CAMEROON
I..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
BENIN       A       1~~~s*r                 NK I             R .                               30
g.                                                                                                                                                                                        B.~~~~~~~~~~.W
Po   Ahoo       4GOS         .    a    FEi5                             oe                             ) .                _      aog                          Proposed NuCleus Estates and Mills
r     E N  I; z Ngkv                                                              0                     /                                                    Ib  No/lenolCo0t e   a        M
. A.~"'~ FgIio. R.,s I Caiohng Anin~ Roads "A' 1  M   tf                              H zRoss TE0C A
| f | ;- , C A M E R O O N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....... e ro.|ai.
N              >                           ->; A ==.    o o  -:
S                                             190S
PR  ~~~~~OOiOV,J,\ o                                                                    NI  EiLR ITEt
P.                               iv                            5                              v
Astolcu        ldh                                                                                TREE  CROPS  PROJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPTEER18



