FILE COPY                    RESTRICTED
Report No.  TO- 585a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCMION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BENI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BOLIVIA
May 2, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1. 00        =Pesos $11.88
Peso $1. 00      =US $0.08
Pesos $1, 000, 000 =US $84, 175
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



BOLIVIA
BENI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY ------
I.    INTRODUCTION ----------------------------------1-------
II.   BACKGROUND ----------------------------------------------            1
A.  General ---------------------------------------------            1
B.  The Beef Cattle Sector ------------------------------            1
C.  Animal Health ---------------------------------------            2
D.  Agricultural Services -------------------------------            2
E.  Government Policies on Livestock Development --------            3
III.  THE PROJECO  ---------------------------------------------            3
A.  The Project Area ------------------------------------            3
B.  Description of the Project --------------------------            4
C.  Cost Estimates --------------------------------------            4
D.  Proposed Financing ----------------------------------            5
E.  Disbursements ---------------------------------------            7
F.  Operating Results -----------------------------------            7
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT -----------------------------             7
A. Project Administration and Technical Services -------             7
B. Lending Operations ----------------------------------             8
C.  Procurement -----------------------------------------            9
D.  Marketing -------------------------------------------            9
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ------------------------------            10
VI.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS -------------------------            12
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Bolivia in August/September 1966. The mission was composed of Messrs.
J. Fransen, J. Andreu, A. Dockx and M. Walden (IDA), and W. Allan (FAO).



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Investment Costs for the Development of 200-Cow Beef Cattle Ranches
2. Project Administration Budget
3. Banco Agricola de Bolivia
4. Project Financial Statements
Table 1: Central Bank Fund - Projected Receipts and Disbursements
Table 2: BAB - Projected Receipts and Disbursements
5. Organizational Chart of the BAB Livestock Project Division
6. Development of 200-Cow Beef Cattle Ranches
Table 1:  Herd Development Projections
Table 2: Sales Projections
Table 3: Operating Expenses Projections
Table 4: Financial Projections - Plan I
Table 5: Financial Projections - Plan II
7. Benefits and Justification
Table 1: Incremental Costs and Benefits - Plan I
Table 2: Incremental Costs and Benefits - Plan II
MAPS
1. General Project Location
2. Ecology of the Lowlands (Llanos) of Bolivia



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Bolivia has requested an IDA credit to help
finance the first stage of a Livestock Development Program for the improve-
ment of the beef cattle industry in the lowlands. Because of technical,
economic and administrative limitations, a limited approach has been adopted
for this first stage, involving only the Department of Beni.
ii.       The Project is directed mainly at investments basic to proper herd
and pasture management such as fencing, stock handling and watering facili-
ties, essential ranch constructions and stock management equipment. It would
also include breeding cattle purchases. Technical services would be pro-
vided to encourage the improvement of pastures and breeding stock. These
improvements would permit an increase in herd productivity and total herd
numbers, and lead to greater output. Short-term financing would also be
provided to increase the effectiveness of development loans. It is expected
that about 150 ranchers would participate in the Project. Each rancher
would initially have a herd of about 600 head of cattle and would develop
about 2,400 ha of land under the Project. Loans to ranchers would be
repayable in twelve years, including four years of grace with interest at
a maximum of 12 per cent. Investments on each ranch would be spread over
three years.
iii.      The Project is estimated to cost a total of about US$ 4.0 million
equivalent, of which US$ 2.7 million would be for ranch development, US$ 0.3
million for technical services, and US$ 1.0 million for complementary short-
term financing. The foreign exchange component would be approximately US$ 0.9
million. The proposed IDA credit would be US$ 2.0 million, covering 50 per
cent of the total Project cost. Thirty-six per cent would be provided by
the Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB), including all short-term financing, and
14 per cent by the participating ranchers.
iv.       A special Livestock Project Division (LPD) would be established in
BAB to administer the Project. The LPD would be headed by an expatriate
Project Director who would be responsible for execution of the Project. He
would be assisted by a small staff of Bolivian technicians. The LPD would
be responsible for assisting ranchers in preparing ranch development plans,
recommending these to the LPD loan committee, supervising execution of plans
for which loans are made, and for providing technical services to ranchers.
v.        The Project is sound and economically justified.  The proposed
administrative arrangements are satisfactory. Expected benefits to both
participating ranchers and to the national economy are adequate, and the
Project would serve as the basis for future expansion of Bolivia's Live-
stock Industry. The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 2.0
million. The borrower would be the Government of Bolivia, and the credit
would be channelled through the Central Bank to BAB.



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Bolivia has requested an IDA credit to help
finance investments for the improvement of the beef cattle industry in the
lowlands. The Project was prepared by an FAO/IBRD mission which visited
Bolivia in July-August 1965, and the Project report was officially submitted
by the Government to IDA in April 1966. This appraisal report is based on
the findings of a mission which visited Bolivia in August-September, 1966.
The mission was composed of Messrs. J. Fransen, J. Andreu, A. Dockx and
M. Walden (IDA), and W. Allan (FAO).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.        Bolivia has an area of 1.1 million sq  km  and is completely land-
locked. It may be divided into three geographical zones: the altiplano
(highlands), the yungas (intermediate valleys) and the llanos (subtropical
and tropical eastern lowlands).
3.        Agriculture employs more than two-thirds of the total labor force
of the estimated 3.7 million population, the greater part of which lives on
subsistence holdings in the altiplano. Since 1952, when the government re-
distributed land ownership in the altiplaiio, agricultural production has
barely kept pace with population growth (1.7 per cent) and has declined from
about one-third to one-fourth of GDP in the same period. More recently,
however, the production of sugar, rice and cotton has increased appreciably
in the lowlands, and the first two have reached levels of self sufficiency.
The lowlands, representing 65 per cent of the total area of the country and
containing only 15 per cent of the population, offer very good opportunities
for beef cattle development.
B. The Beef Cattle Sector
4.        The cattle population of the lowlands is about 1.2 million head,
or two-thirds of the national total, and is largely concentrated in the
Department of Beni. Official sources estimate an extraction rate 1/ of
10 per cent for the lowlands. Annual production from the Beni Department
alone averaged 6,500 MT of dressed beef from 1960 through 1965. This was
roughly one-half of total national production. The relatively low average
carcass weight has remained fairly constant at around 180 kg per head in
the same period.
1/ Total number of cattle slaughtered annually expressed as a percentage
of total cattle population.



5.        Domestic per capita consumption has also remained stable at about
six kg per year (the lowest in South America), although wide regional
variations are apparent, e.g. La Paz and the tin mines consume three times
more beef than the national average. Beef imports and exports have fluctu-
ated markedly in the last five years, but their total value has remained
very small.
C. Animal Health
6.        Animal health problems in the Beni reflect inadequate management,
the absence of a field diagnostic service, and limited application of disease
control measures. The most important diseases are Foot-and-Mouth Disease
(FMD - Aftosa) and Paralytic Rabies, which could be controlled by routine
vaccination programs. During negotiations assurances have been obtained
that all cattle belonging to ranchers participating in the Project would be
routinely vaccinated against FMD and Rabies. Other factors, such as low
fertility rate, calf mortality caused by diseases of the newborn, and in-
ternal parasites could be brought to acceptable levels through appropriate
herd management.
D. Agricultural Services
7.        The agricultural services of Bolivia were built up as semi-inde-
pendent organizations in the period following the agrarian revolution of
1952. They were incorporated in a reorganized Ministry of Agriculture in
1965.
8.        The extension service's agents have little training in animal
husbandry. Field veterinary services are mainly concerned with Rabies con-
trol in the lowlands, and with an FMD campaign in the Department of Cocha-
bamba, which is to be expanded to include the lowlands. Assurance for this
has been obtained during negotiations. The Ministry of Agriculture plans
to establish a field diagnostic service and a major vaccine production center
in the lowlands, coupled with expanded field veterinary activities.
9.        The School of Agriculture at Cochabamba is poorly equipped and
staffed, as is the Veterinary School at Santa Cruz, but realistic efforts
at reform are being made in the latter, where the present aim is to produce
20 graduates a year. An intermediate level of training is given at the six
practical agricultural schools, which graduate about 100 students a year,
most of whom go into the extension service.
10.       There are two agricultural research centers concerned with cattle
production. The Trinidad center in Beni has done some breeding work and
has started to keep records recently. The Saavedra station of Santa Cruz
is designing and testing systems of husbandry suited to the environment.
11.       Medium and long-term agricultural credit, for which the demand is
great, is available only from public sources, the most important of which
is the Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB) an autonomous organization under the
general direction of the Ministry of Agriculture. Besides lending from its



own resources, BAB has channelled funds from US AID, which is also assisting
with reorganization and management, and the Interamerican Development Bank.
Interest charged is 12 per cent per annum, and most loans are made for 12
years. During negotiations, it has been assured that BAB would initiate
separate accounting of its commercial and subsidized operations.
E. Government Policies on Livestock Development
12.       The Government has recently emphasized in its policies the develop-
ment of the beef and wool industries, and BAB is playing a major role in
channelling funds to these sectors. The Government has also initiated an
ambitious plan to reorganize the Ministry of Agriculture in an attempt to
provide the ancillary services necessary for development of the livestock
industry. The tax burden on livestock producers has always been kept small
and movement of cattle within the country has remained free. Meat prices
to the producers have remaained unregulated, but those to wfholesalers and
retailers have been kept at the same level for the past five years in the
main consumption centers (Para. 41).
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Project Area
13.       The Project area is that part of the Beni which is predominantly
grassland, and cornprises mainly the very extensive flood plains of the
Mamore River and its tributaries. Its size is around 12 million ha, two
million of which are in ranches (Map 1).
14.       The climate is tropical with an annual rainfall averaging 1,@00
mm, of which sixty per cent occurs in January-April.  The mean temperature
is 260 centigrade. Soils are young alluvials, varying from sandy to clay
loams, with clay subsoils or pan at a depth of one m or less in extended
areas. The climax vegetation is high forest of many species, while grass-
land predominates in the central floodplains (Map 2). The area lies at a
general altitude of about 250 m above sea level and is very flat. Partial
flooding occurs at the time of the summer runoffs.
15.       In Bolivia, ranch size is usually expressed in terms of cattle
numbers. In the Beni, approximately 40 per cent of all ranches have a herd
size of between 400 and 1,000 head of cattle.  A total of about 300 ranches
are included in this size category.  The typical ranch to be developed would
initially have about 600 head of cattle and approximately 4,000 ha of pasture
land, of which about 2,400 ha would be improved under the Project. The
Beni ranches are extremely understocked, even when taking into account the
extensive grazing production system followed in the area. Ranchers have
the right to own five ha of land per head of cattle under the Agrarian
Reform Law, but the process of title clarification is lengthy and makes it
difficult to obtain credit. As a condition of the proposed IDA credit, a
process for quick clarification of land titles to participating ranchers
has been established by Government.



B. Description of the Project
16.       In view of limited government experience and resources for this
type of development and insufficient supply of breeding stock, the Pro jct
would be restricted to the partial development of 150 commercial beef
cattle ranches in the Department of Beni. The Beni has greater immediate
potential for livestock development at higher returns than other lowlands
regions and also has better developed marketing facilities. Project in-
vestments and the proposed IDA credit would amount to US$ 4.0 million and
US$ 2.0 million respectively. The Project would represent the first stage
of a long-term livestock development program, directed primarily at improve-
ment of beef cattle production in the lowlands.
17.       Investments would be for fencing, corrals, water points, light
equipment and tools, essential barns and housing, selected pasture improve-
ment, purchase of breeding stock (limited to not more than 50 per cent of
individual ranch development loans), working capital and technical services.
The above investments would increase carrying capacity, permit a more effi-
cient and fuller utilization of the pasture produced, and improve stock
quality and performance. Due to the present understocked condition pre-
vailing on most ranches, only about 60 per cent of each participating ranch
would need to be developed under the Project to provide adequate pasture
for existing and projected herd size.
18.       As a complement to the Project, BAB will:  (a) financially and
technically assist in the development of about eight representative ranches
in the Departments of Santa Cruz and Tarija; (b) conduct a land tenure
survey in the lowlands; and (c) carry out a national beef and live cattle
marketing study. The above activities would be undertaken under terms of
reference to be agreed upon with IDA, and would help to provide the basis
for a second stage of livestock development.
C. Cost Estimates
19.       The estimated total cost of the project is equivalent to US$ 4.0
million and is summarized in the following table:



-5-
Total          Dollar        Foreign Exchange
Investment Categories         Cost         Equivalent           Component
(Pesos '000)     (UTh?5--'0          - '0-00) 
Ranch Development
Fencing                       9,600             800                 256
Stock Handling Facilities    1,800              150                   0
Stock TWatering Facilities    2,400             200                  69
Stock Management Equipment      900              75                  75
Constructions                 3,900             325                  95
Pasture Establishment         1,200             100                   0
Breeding Stock               12,600           1,050                 215
Total Ranch Development         32,400h          2,700                 710
Technical Services               3,600             300                 170
Short Term Financing            12,000           1,000                   -
Total Project Cost              48,000           4,000                 880
Per Cent of Total Project Cost    100              100                  22
20.       Ranch development costs aggregate US$ 2.7 million or about 68 per
cent of the total Project cost.  Technical services account for US$ 0.3 million
(7 per cent), and the balance of US$ 1.0 million (25 per cent) would be for
complementary short term financing of ranch operating expenses.  Due to the
nature of the Project, which requires the provision of facilities basic to
proper herd and pasture management, the foreign exchange component is only
US$ 0.9 million, 22 per cent of total cost.
21.       Estimates for on-ranch development costs are based on a representa-
tive Beni ranch having 200 breeding cows (Annex 1). Ranch development would
be initiated during each of the first three years of the Project. It is
expected that 30, 50 and 70 ranches respectively would initiate development
during the first three year period. Individual ranch development would also
take three years. Therefore, Project implementation would require five years.
Technical services estimates are projected for the five year development
period (Annex 2), at the completion of which they are expected to remain
constant and be financed by BAB from interest earnings received from partici-
pating ranchers. Total short term credit requirements are projected from
individual ranch average annual needs (Pesos 80,000) and as such reflect the
average annual requirements.
D. Proposed Financing
22.       The total Project cost of US$ 4.0 million equivalent would be
financed by the ranchers themselves, by DAB and by IDA as follows:



-6 -
Ranchers            BAB              IDA
Category       (Amount)  (T-)  (Amount)  (%)   (Amount)  ( 7    Total
(US$ '000 Equivalent)
Ranch Development          540     20       330     12    1,830      68   2,700
Technical Services          -        -      130     43       170     57     300
Short-Term Financing        -        -   1,000    100        -        -  1,000
Total Project Cost         540     14    1,460      36    2,000      50   4,000
23.       For on-ranch development, the owners would contribute an average of
20 per cent of the estimated costs in cash and/or kind, considered to be a
reasonable contribution in view of their present financial position and ex-
pected slow improvement during early development years (Para. 44). The
remaining 80 per cent of the cost would be advanced to the ranchers as a
loan from BAB. This has been assured during negotiations. It is envisaged
that 85 per cent of the amount of such loans would be reimbursed from the
proposed IDA credit (68 per cent of ranch development costs) and that BAB
would contribute the balance of 15 per cent (12 per cent of ranch develop-
ment costs) from its own financial resources; likewise considered to be a
reasonable contribution in view of its very restricted availability of
resources for long-term lending. The US$ 0.33 million required is BAB's
present maximum availability of long-term funds for this Project (Annex 3).
24.       The cost of technical services for the participating ranchers
would be financed by the proposed IDA credit (57 per cent) and by BAB
(43 per cent) during the first five years of the Project. These percentages
roughly correspond to expected foreign exchange and local currency require-
ments. These costs would be recovered from the interest payments received
on ranch development loans and technical services would continue to be paid
from this source.
25.       Short-term credit is of great importance in this Project to meet
the needs of ranchers, especially during the initial phase, growing out of
their reduced cash flow during early development years and the necessity of
financing fattening operations during years of surplus pasture production
to bring about added liquidity and greater returns (Para. 44). BAB is the
only source of short-term financing available to the participating ranchers
charging reasonable interest rates (12 per cent). Although BAB is in a tight
financial condition (Annex 3), it would be responsible for providing 100 per
cent of the complementary short-term financing of ranch operating expenses.
Assurance for this has been obtained during negotiations. This contribution
would represent a major effort on its part, and as such is included as a
component of total Project cost.



26.       To ensure implementation, during the first three Project years, of
the subprojects and studies referred to in Para. 18 they would be financed
by interest free Qovernment advances. This has been assured during negotia-
tions. These costs would later be recovered by Government from the net
interest differential resulting during the first six years of the Project
and accruing to a special Central Bank Fund (Para. 35). Any additional
financing required would be provided by BAB from its own resources.
E. Disbursements
27.       BAB would submit to Central Bank documents verifying disbursements
actually made under loans to the ranchers for eligible items of ranch develop-
ment. IDA would reimburse Central Bank for 85 per cent of such loans upon
receipt of its certified statement of disbursements.  This method is pro-
posed since it wi6uld not be feasible to relate .IDA's participation directly
to individual investment items of total expenditures incurred for ranch
development. IDA would not anticipate any increase in this percentage, and
any undisbursed balance resulting from savings in the amount allocated for
technical services under the Credit would also be available for loans to
ranchers. No reimbursement would be made by IDA for short-term loans. For
the foreign exchange component of technical services, disbursements would be
made against invoices. In all instances the above documents would need to
be countersigned by the Project Director. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that BAB and the Central Bank will maintain separate accounts
for the Livestock Development Project, and that these accounts and the
supporting documentation will be audited at specified intervals by account-
ants acceptable to IDA.
F. Operating Results
28.       The projected favorable financial implications for the Government
and for BAB resulting from the Project are set forth in Annex 4, Tables 1
and 2. Sub-loan repayments from ranchers not required for administrative
and technical services expenses and debt service would be relent by BAB to
ranchers during the 16 year period that the resources of the Central Bank
Fund are made exclusively available to BAB. Based upon 100 per cent re-
coveries, annual relending during this period would increase the total volume
of lending under the Project by about 85 million pesos
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Administration and Technical Services
29.       A Livestock Project Division (LPD) would be formed in BAB, before
the Credit Agreement is signed, to administer the Project and to provide
technical services to participating rarchers. It would consist of a project
director, an administrative assistant, five field technicians and a loan
committee (Annex 5).
30.       The Project Director, to be appointed before the Credit Agreement
becomes effective, would be recruited internationally. His selection and
terms of service would be approved by IDA. He would: (a) be responsible



- 8 -
for the execution of the Project; (b) have the authority to approve the
selection, promotion, suspension or removal of LPD staff; (c' assist in the
training of the technicians and outline their duties and res, onsibilities;
(d) report to the President of BAB through its General Managf'; and (e) be
ultimately responsible for promoting the Project, assisting ranchers in the
preparation of individual development plans, approving and recommending these
plans to the loan committee as the basis for lending and for supervising the
execution of plans for which loans are made.
31.       In the selection of the administrative assistant and the field
technicians, preference would be given to veterinarians with experience in
practical livestock production since more emphasis,at this stage of de-
velopment, should be given to herd health and management practices than to
agronomic improvements. Sufficient qualified staff are available since
total requirement is small. Due to the inadequacy of the Ministry of Agri-
culture's technical programs, most services would need to be provided to
the participating ranchers by the LPD.
32.       A Project loan committee will be created in the LPD before the
signing of the Credit Agreement. It would ratify ranch development plans
and would have the unrestricted authority to approve all loans recommended
by the Project Director. The Committee would be composed of the BAB General
Manager, BAB Credit Manager and the LPD Director. It would disapprove loan
applications only on the basis of the prospective borrower's credit worthi-
ness, which would be provisionally determined prior to preparation of the
development plan. Financially and administratively BAB would process the
approved loans through its Trinidad regional office.
B. Lending Operations
Policies
33.       Loans to ranchers would be made on the basis of ranch development
plans prepared by the LPD field technicians and approved by the Project
Director. Participating ranchers would have a minimum initial breeding herd
size of approximately 200 cows anr would be required to limit land develop-
ment to an area sufficient only for a tripling of herd size during a twelve
year period (approximately 60 per cent of each ranch, e.g. 2,h00 of 4,000
ha). Any ranch development loans greater than US$ 100,000 equivalent would
require specific IDA approval. Increased real estate value resulting from
ranch development investments would be included in the basis for the esti-
mation of security requirements for loans. BAB would restrict its long-term
beef cattle lending operation in the Beni to those of the Project during the
IDA disbursement period. During negotiations, assurance has been obtained
that BAB will adhere to the Project policies herewith outlined.
Terms and Conditions
34.       The Credit would be made on normal IDA terms to Government, which
would assume the foreign exchange risk. Government would cause to be estab-
lished an appropriate Central Bank Fund which would administer the proposed
IDA credit. This has been assured during negotiations. The Fund would make
the proceeds of the IDA credit available to BAB, in local currency, at an
interest rate of four per cent for a term of 16 years including five years



- 9 -
of grace.  During this 16 year period, repayments not required for ID4 debt
servicing would also be made annually available to BAB, on the same terms
and conditions, for further lending under the Project. BAB would relend to
participating ranchers at a maximum of 12 per cent interest (minimum of 10
per cent) for a term of 12 years including a four year grace period.
35.       The Government would credit the Central Bank Fund with interest-
free advances to cover disbursements to BAB, and for purposes of the sub-
projects and studies referred to in Para. 18. The Fund would replenish its
resources from the proposed IDA credit and from interest and capital re-
payments paid by BAB. In making the resources of the Fund available to BAB,
Government would not charge more than four per cent per annum as coverage
for the IDA service charge, advances to the Fund, and any Central Bank
administrative costs resulting from the Project. The capital repayments
received from BAB not required for IDA debt servicing and the net interest
differential resulting after payment of service charges to IDA, would be
used to recover the interest-free Government advances made for financing
the subprojects and special studies mentioned in Para. 18 and for additional
lending under the Project during a 16 year period. Following the initial
16 year period, Government would make these resources available, through
the Fund, to BAB and other institutions for further financing of livestock
development. Assurance for this has been obtained during negotiations.
36.       BAB's net operating profit, resulting after recovery of admini-
strative and technical services expenses from the interest payments paid by
the participating ranchers, and rancher capital repayments not required for
debt servicing to the Central Bank Fund would be relent to ranchers under the
Project for the same purpose and on similar terms and conditions. Interest
charge to the ranchers during the relending period would be agreed upon with
IDA, but would not be less than ten nor more than twelve per cent. This has
been assured during negotiations.
C. Procurement
37.       The goods and services required for ranch development would be
purchased by the individual rancher through normal commercial channels. Due
to the nature of the Project most on-ranch inputs are locally produced, and
the small size of the Project avoids major supply problems. Both these on-
ranch inputs and the equipment required for technical services are available
through local suppliers and representatives of foreign firms, of which there
are sufficient numbers to provide adequate competition in the supply of the
goods required. A very small number of improved sires would be imported and
limited numbers of sires and breeding females would be locally procured.
All purchases of livestock required for the Project would be subject to the
approval of the Project Director with respect to quality, source and animal
health standards. International competitive bidding would not be appropriate
for livestock procurement since animals adapted to the environment, of the
type and quality required, can best be obtained from countries adjacent to
the lowlands.
D. Marketing
38.       In the Beni, most of the 35 small slaughterhouses are owned and
operated by beef wholesalers. The principal system of beef transport to La
Paz and the mines during the past 20 years has been by air. Slaughterhouses



- 10 -
are, therefore, located adjacent to landing strips. Due to a lack of cold
storage facilities in most of the Beni slaughterhouses the carcasses must
be transported within a few hours following slaughter.
39.       Air transport handles more than 50 per cent of Bolivia's total beef
transport. The service is principally provided by one public and five pri-
vate companies, which contract trips with wholesalers. The average payload
of the C-46 and B-17 planes is approximately 6.5 tons. The main problem
confronting the air transport industry at present is the lack of financing
for long-term expansion. As far as the Project is concerned, however, air
transport would satisfy the needs of the next decade. A study is being
financed by UNDP to investigate the possibilities of road, railroad, river
and air transport for the whole country, and a request has already been pre-
sented to US AID by the Aeronautics Council for funds to build three paved
airstrips in the main beef producing centers of the Beni.
40.       The producers usually sell their cattle to the wholesalers placed
at the slaughterhouses in the Beni. They are paid on a carcass weight basis.
The wholesaler is responsible for the slaughter and transport of beef to the
main consuming centers of La Paz and the mines.  Upon arrival in La Paz, the
meat is usually sold directly to the retailers for immediate resale to con-
sumers. However, a total cold storage capacity of 250 MT is available in
La Paz, which is sufficient for a ten day supply. Beef for export must also
be transported to La Paz.
41.       The price paid to producers is unregulated and has been steadily
increasing from 2.0/pesos/kg to 4.2/pesos/kg of dressed weight (period 1960
to 1966). The wholesale and retail prices have been frozen since 1962 at
5.5 and 6.8 pesos per kg respectively. Average air transport cost per kg of
beef is 1.1 pesos. The wholesaler is the hardest hit by this situation,
since retail prices are in reality higher. For any second stage project,
there is a need to progressively liberalize domestic beef prices starting
with the higher value cuts.  Export prices to Peru, Chile and isolated zones
of Western Brazil are 40 to 100 per cent higher, and demand is high (the
Arequipa and Lima markets alone could readily absorb up to four times their
present level of purchases in Bolivia, which represents a potential annual
demand of approximately 8,000 MT dressed weight).
42.       Cheese has been traditionally produced on a small scale throughout
the Beni. The expected production increases would be rather small and would
be marketed mainly in Trinidad, Santa Cruz, La Paz and the mines.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
43.       The benefits to participating ranchers from investments made under
the Project are projected in Annex 6, Tables 1 through 5. The estimates are
based on a representative 200-cow beef cattle ranch in the Beni. Expected
results per ranch at various stages of development are summarized below:



- 11 -
1'                       After     After           Total
4,000 Ha Ranch-/        Before          Five      Complete   2   Per Cent
Development    Years     Development-   Increase3/
Total Herd, Head               580         1,030        1,680            190
Output, Head                    60            80          340            460
Net Profit, '000 Pesos 4/       40            40          160            300
Net Profit, '000 Pesos ;/       40           120          160            300
Herd Value, '000 Pesos         260           410          820            220
1/  Average Incremental Investment Cost of 216,000 pesos per ranch.
2/ 12 years. 3/ Comparing Before and After Development.
IT  Plan I (see-Para. 44). 5/ Plan II (see Para. 44).
44.       As these projections show, the net profit per ranch would increase
by 300 per cent after twelve years, when intended development is completed.
Participating ranchers would experience a reduction in current incom,e during
early development years due to the retention of heifers previously scld.
Herd development, however, would not progress as rapidly as carrying capa-
city is increased by the concentrated three-year investment program and
improved ranch management. Since most ranchers would also require an addi-
tional annual income to meet previous debt service, they would most likely
engage in the fattening of locally purchased feeder cattle during years two
through six of development. The introduction of a fattening operation, under
Plan II, during these years of surplus pasture production, permits a fuller
and more efficient utilization of investment benefits and greater returns,
especially to the more progressive entrepreneurs, tripling net income by the
sixth year as compared to Plan I (both Plans I and II are identical otherwise -
Annex 6, Tables 1 through 5). The purchase of feeder cattle for fattening
would be financed by BAB as part of the complementary short term financing
(Para. 25).
h .       The effect of the proposed on-ranch investments and technical
services would result in an increased output 1/ of more than 400 per cent
after a 12-year development period. This would be brought about by an in-
crease of approximately 20 per cent in weaning rate, a reduction of five
per cent in adult mortality, an improvement in stocking rate, a slight in-
crease in slaughter weight and a reduction in slaughter age (Annex 6,
Table 1). The combined effect would result in a doubling of the extraction
rate. Total herd numbers would have increased almost two-fold upon com-
pletion of the 12-year development period. In addition, cheese sales would
be increased temporarily to provide added liquidity and higher returns to
participating ranchers.
1/ Total number of cattle slaughtered plus those sold for breeding stock
expressed as a percentage of total herd numbers.



- 12 -
46.       The net increase in total beef production at the twelfth year of
development is estimated to be 8,400 MT carcass weight per annum, valued at
about US$ 2.7 million at domestic prices to the producer. Assuming that
half of the increase in beef production would be exported, the Project's
annual gross contribution to Bolivia's foreign exchange earnings would be
US$ 4.2 million equivalent at prevailing prices..
47.       Based on the cash flow projections (Annex 7, Tables 1 and 2), the
financial return to the participating ranchers would be about 19 per cent
for Plan I and about 25 per cent for Plan II. For these calculations it has
been assumed that the maximum lifetime of the individual ranch development
plan would be 20 years and that all investments other than livestock would
have no residual value at the end of that period. Under these assumptions,
the internal rate of return of the entire Project to the economy of Bolivia
would be approximately 17 per cent for Plan I and 22 per cent for Plan II.
48.       In addition to these direct production effects, the economy would
gain from the demonstration of proper ranch management techniques. The pro-
posed technical services would assist in developing standards for the future
expansion of the industry, and BAB's technical staff would also be strengthened
and its administrative procedures improved. The Project would made a sub-
stantial contribution to the long-term development of the beef industry of
Bolivia.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMiENDATIONS
49.       The Project is the first stage of a livestock development scheme
which is aimed principally at the expansion and improvement of the lowlands
beef cattle industry of Bolivia. The demand for investment funds is great,
and satisfactory returns would result for participating ranchers.
50.       The Project is sound and is suitable for an IDA credit of us$ 2.0
million. The borrower would be the Government of Bolivia and the Central
Bank would act as its financial agent in channelling the credit to BAB, which
would make long-term development loans to participating ranchers. The
Government would bear the exchange risk and the Central Bank would pay, for
Government, the IDA service charge. The LPD established in BAB would
adiinister the Project.
51.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) The Government will:
(i) assure that the FID control program would be expanded to
include the Project area (Para. 8);



- 13 -
(ii)  establish a process for the quick clarification of land
titles to participating ranchers prior to signing the
Credit Agreement (Para. 15); and
(iii)  establish an appropriate Central Bank Fund (Para. 34)
adequate for reimbursing promptly to BAB the portion of
sub-loans to ranchers which would be reimbursed from the
proposed IDA credit. In making the resources of the
Fund available to BAB for a 16 year period Government
would not charge more than four per cent per annum as
coverage for the IDA service charge, advances to the
Fund, and any Central Bank administrative costs resulting
from the Project. The capital repayments received from
BAB not required for IDA debt servicing and the net interest
differential resulting after payment of service charges
to IDA, would be used to recover the interest free Govern-
ment advances made for financing the subprojects and special
studies mentioned in Para. 18 and for additional lending
under the Project during a 16 year period. Following the
initial 16 year period, Government would make these resources
available through the Fund, to BAB and other institutions
for further financing of livestock development (Para. 35).
(b) The Banco Agricola de Bolivia will:
(i) assure that all cattle entering into the Project would be
routinely vaccinated against FMD and Rabies (Para. 6);
(ii)  initiate accounting procedures acceptable to the Association
(Para. 11);
(iii) limit the purchase of breeding stock to not more than 50
per cent of the amount of any individual ranch development
loan under the Project (Para. 17);
(iv)  as a complement to the Project and on terms of reference
to be agreed upon with IDA, financially and technically
assist in the development of representative ranches in
Santa Cruz and Tarija, conduct a land tenure survey in the
lowlands, and carry out a national beef and live cattle
marketing survey (Para. 18);
(v) make available for lending to ranchers as promptly as
necessary local currency funds averaging 80 per cent of
the cost of approved ranch development plans (Para. 23);
(vi)  finance the administrative and technical services expenses
resulting from the Project with interest earnings (Para. 24);



- 14i -
(vii) provide the short-term financing requirements of the
participating ranchers (Para. 25);
(viii) establish and maintain separate accounts for the Livestock
Development Project and arrange for auditing these accounts
by accountants, and at intervals, acceptable to IDA
(Para. 27);
(ix)  establish, before the signing of the Credit Agreement,
the LPD which would administer the Project (Para. 29),
including a Project loan committee which would have un-
restricted authority to approve all loan requests under
the Pro.ject, subject, however, to the limitations of
Para. 51(b)(xi) Para. 32);
(x)  appoint, before the Credit Agreement becomes effective,
a Project Director acceptable to IDA and define his duties,
responsibilities and authorities in a manner satisfactory
to IDA (Para. 30);
(xi) make sub-loans to participating ranchers only on the basis
of ranch development plans approved by the Project Director,
obtain specific IDA approval on all individual ranch de-
velopment sub-loans larger than US$ 100,000 equivalent,
and restrict its long-term beef cattle lending operations
in the Beni to those of the Project during the IDA dis-
bursement period (Para. 33);
(xii) agree with IDA upon the terms and conditions of the initial
livestock development loans to participating ranchers
(Para. 34); annually relend to ranchers, for the same pur-
pose and on similar terms and conditions (interest charge
to ranchers would not be less than 10 nor more than 12 per
cent), the surplus collections resulting during the 16 year
Project period (Para. 36); and
(xiii) make all purchases of livestock required for the project
subject to approval of the Project Director with respect
to quality, source and animal health standards (Para. 37).
May 2, 1967



BOLT _e>aVI
LIESTit. DVELOPME  PROJEC
INVEST1  T COSTS"  THE  EVEtOMM    OF 2004-0  BFMW CATTLE RANCHES
ON-RANCH NVT1fN  PRMCT IONS
Average    Average                Total Cost for 150 Ranches
Units      Cost                                           Foreign
INVESTMENT ITEMS             Unit        Per        Per             Total         Dollar            Eche
Cost        Ranch      Ranch           Cost    E      alent
(PEsOS     )             (PESOS)   (PESOS (000)  ((US$ 7    000)
Fencing, Km.                          4,000         16         64,000         9,600             800        32       256
Stock Handling Facilities, No.       24,000         ½!         12,000         1,800             150         0         0
Stock Watering Facilities
(a) Farm Ponds, No.                 2,000         2           4,000           600             50          0         0
(b) Well-Mill-Tank, No.            24,000         ½          12,000        1,800             150         44        69
Constructions
(a) Barns, No.                     I6,ooo         ½           8,000         1,200             100        50        50
(b) Houses, No.                    36,000         ½          18,000        2,700             225         20       45
Pasture Establishment, Ha.              400         20          8,000         1,200             100          0        0
Breeding Cattle
(a) Bulls, No.                      3,000        11          34,000         5,100             425        50       215
(b) Heifers, No.                      500       100          50,000         7,500            625          0         0
Light Equipment and Tools  1/         6,000          1          6,000           900                       100        7
TOTAL                                   -            -        216,000        322h/ 2,7Of2
l/  Includes such items as refrigerators, cat-tJie spray5. r3nd genera" animai healTn and husu-anlnry equ-ipment.
y/ Altnough it is indicated that a-l heifers would be D""chiasep           -- there is a strorl:g a obability
tnaV some of' tnem would De i=norter- fronr Paragual, anc/or Braz-., Tnerefore, the foreign exchange
componenf, of 26 per cent. as showr.. would be ar. a:.slute rrxmllnirl,  .ewise, the value a6 shown is an
average and not a total.



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION BUDGET
Foreign
YEARS                                    Dollar        Exchange
EXPENDITURE ITEMS                       2      3      14      5            Total       E             Comonent
(tOOO PESOS)                  (PESOS t000)   (US$ too      US$ t000
OPERATING ElPENSES
Director; Salary                        216    216   216      216    216            1,080          90             90
Director; Travel 1/                      24     24    24       24     24              120          10             10
Admin. Assistant; Salary                 _       _    59       59     62              180          15
Technicians; Salary V/                   84    170   213      216    217              900          75              -
Admin. Personnel; Salary 3/              24     24    48       48     48              192          16               -
Per Diem Allowances 4/                   12     20    28       30     30              120          10              _
Office Expenses 5/                        1 4    5     5        5      5               24           2              _
Transportation Expenses 6/               10     20    22       22     22               96           8              -
Training Grants 7/                      120     -      -       -      -               120          10             10
Total COerating Expenses 8/             494    479   615      620    624            2,832         236            110
CAPITAL EXPENSES
Office Furniture                         10      6      8      -      -                24           2              -
Office Equipment                         24     12    12       -      -                48           4              2
Radio Equipment 9/                       60     60    -        -      -               120           10            10
Vehicles 10/                             72     72    -        -      -               144          12             12
Airplane 11/                            432      -     -       -      -               .432         36             36
Total Capital Expenses                  598    150    20       -      -               768          64             60
Total Project Admin. Costs            1,092    629   635      620    624            3,600         300            170
1/ Round trip every two years for director and family.          8/ All salaries includes direct salaries plus Christmas
2/ Year 1, 2 technicians; Year 2, 2 additional technicians;        bonus, residency bonus, social charges, etc.
Year 3, 1 additional technician.                             9/ Due to poor communications, necessary to provide all
3/ Year 1, secretary; year 3, bookkeeper.                          field offices with radio contact with La Paz.
4r/ At rate of 65 Pesos per day.                              10/ Includes 4 Jeeps/Landrovers.
;/ Includes rent and general expenses.                         11/ All travel within the project area is by air since
b/ IneP'des maintenance of vehicles.                               there are no roads.
7/ Inci . -,s 5 training grants.



ANNEX 3
BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
INTRODUCTION
1.        The Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB) was established by Supreme
Decree dated February 11, 1942, and was reorganized in 1963. Its main
functions are to promote agriculture and to provide agricultural credit.
The Bank is a legally autonomous government agency under the general
direction of the Ministry of Agriculture. Long term policies are deter-
mined by this Ministry but allocation of funds is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Finance.
CRGANIZATION AND MNiAGEMENT
Board of Directors
2.        The Board of Directors is the highest authority in the direction
of BAB's activities and is composed of a President and Vice President
appointed by the President of the Republic and three other directors. One
of these three is appointed directly by the Ministry of Agriculture; the
two remaining directors are nominated by the private agricultural and
livestock sectors, but must be approved by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Terms of office are four years for the President and two years for all
other directors.
Executive Committee
3.        The Executive Committee, consisting of the General Manager as
President, and the managers of the four divisions of Credit, Finance and
Accounting, Cooperatives and Administration, acts as a decision making
body and as an advisory group to the Board. This Committee evaluates and
approves large loans, decides on procedures in default cases and performs
other normal executive functions.
General Manager
4.        The General Manager is selected by the Board of Directors and is
officially appointed by the President of the Republic. He is the principal
administrative and executive authority of the Bank.
AID Consultants
5.        As a precondition of the AID US$ 3.7 million loan made to the
Government and contributed to BAB as equity capital, a full-time four-man



ANNEX 3
Page 2
team of U.S. hired consultants is attached to BAB. They act as technical
advisers on administration and policy making and have review powers on
large AID financed loans.
Organization
6.        The Bank is organized into three area offices under the national
office. These area offices control eight regional offices which in turn
supervise 34 provincial agencies. BAB's staff are career officials and
number 170 at present, of whom 50 are located in the national office in
La Paz.
RESOURCES
7.        The authorized capital of BAB is B$1,000 million.  Lending resources
come in part from grants and loans and in part from capital subscriptions
by the Government. Special lending programs are carried out by BAB as an
agency of the Government. As of June 30, 1966, total resources amounted to
B$173.5 million, of which capital funds were B$84.6 million, loan funds
B$44 million and agency funds B$44.9 million. Table 1 gives the details
of BAB's resources.
LENDING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Terms
8.        BAB grants short, medium and long term loans.  Regulations stipu-
late that maximum terms be 18 months for short term, 7 years for medium
term and 20 years for long term loans. The maximum period on long term
loans made to date has been 12 years. Loans for the purchase of machinery
and livestock can be granted on a long term basis with a one to four-year
grace period. The interest rate is 12 per cent per annum for all loans.
In the case of loans originating from resources contributed by AID, the 12
per cent is mandatory by the terms of the contracts with AID. All loans
must normally be secured by mortgage of real estate or chattels.
Loan Processing
9.        Loans are requested and handled through the provincial offices
and a satisfactory appraisal procedure is followed. After the loan appli-
cations are prepared, they are submitted for review and approval at various
administrative levels according to the size of the loan; those above
B$300,000 are approved by the Board of Directors. Usually the period
between the agent's visit to the farm and final approval of the loan varies
from three weeks to two and a half months according to the level involved.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
This period can be exceeded for reasons beyond the control of the Banco
Agricola when delays from imperfections in title arise.
Supervision
10.       Once the loan is granted the provincial agent is responsible for
its collection and for supervision of the farm activities. At least one
annual supervision visit is required but the frequency, extent and intensity
of control have been limited by the Bank's shortage of personnel. Super-
vision has therefore been concentrated on problem loans.
LENDING OPERATIONS
Loan Portfolios
II.       Lending operations have been conducted under three main portfolios
as follows:
Portfolio         December 31, 1964  December 31, 1965  June 30, 1966
B$'CO0             B$'000            B$'000
Original BAB                 3,591               2,876             2,721
BID                         15,572              18,896            17,803
SAC/AID  1/                 40,337              54,141           66,059
TOTAL PORTFOLIO  2/          59,500             75,913            86,583
1/  Supervised Agricultural Credit Program (SAC).  On the termination of
the Program, assets were donated by the U.S.A. to the Banco Agricola.
2/ A further reduction of approximately B$5 million should be made to
these figures to comply with audit recommendations in respect of
provision for bad debts.
12.       Original BAB portfolio disbursements have been discontinued since
the 1963 reorganization. Loans still outstanding are numerous and recovery
is difficult. Recoveries are not relent under this portfolio.
13.       BID portfolio details are shown in Table 2.  Most of these loans
are made on medium (maximum 7 years) and long term (maximum 10 years) bases
at 12 per cent to large scale farmers for livestock and agricultural im-
provement. Repayment by borrowers is due in U.S. dollars or Bolivian pesos
equivalent. In general, satisfactory security covers the amount of the
loans.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
14.       SAC-AID portfolio details are shown in Table 2.  There are over
3,600 borrowers, most of whom are small farmers who are not able to give
high security. Loans are for general agriculture and livestock and the
interest rate is 12 per cent per annum.
FINANCE AND ACCOUNTS
Accounting and Auditing
15.       External auditing is performed annually by an international firm
of public accountants (Arthur Young and Company). Internal auditing has
so far been carried out by a public accountant on a contract basis. However,
an internal auditing department has recently been established. The Chief
Internal Auditor reports to the Board of Directors through the General
Manager.
16.       The accounting system is still not fully efficient although it
has improved since the Bank's reorganization. BAB will shortly undertake,
with the help of consultants, a study of its accounting and administrative
organization with the object of providing greater efficiency for expanded
lending. However, as a condition of the IDA credit, BAB should make
without delay, a clear distinction between its commercial loans, sub-
sidized loans and agency programs and to this effect, start immediately
with separate accounting of its various operations.
17.       Balance sheets and profit and loss accounts are given in Table 3
and 4 for the years 1964 and 1965. The auditors recommended a series of
adjustments for the financial years under zeview, especially in connection
with the accounting of income from interest and provision for losses on
loan portfolios. Parts of the recommended adjustments have already been
made by BAB and the rest will be undertaken during the current year.
Current and Cumulative Situation
18.       Prior to the reorganization of 1963 BAB incurred losses while
operating under inflationary conditions with poor lending policy and in-
adequate security. Accumulated losses amounted to about B$9.2 million at
December 31, 1965, after taking into account the 1965 profit of B$0.9
million. At present BAB is recovering from what was three years ago a
situation of under-capitalization; it should further improve its financial
position, under present management, as the volume of sound operations in-
creases. Table 4 shows improvements in the ratios of income, expenses and
net profit related to average resources for 1965 as compared with 1964.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
STATEMENT OF FUNDS
(As of June 30, 1966)
B$'000
CAPITAL FUNDS
Share Capital (SubscrThed out of AID Loans to Government)              54,724
Donated Capital (SAC)                                                  18,300
Capital not Represented by Shares (Government & Revaluation)            7,542
50,566
Less Net Losses as of December 31, 1965                                 9,190
71,376
Share Capital (Balance of US$ 2 Million AID loan to Government)        13,250
LOAN FUNDS
Interamerican Development Bank Loan (BID)                              18,804
AID Loan (US$ 2.1 Million)                                             25,200
AGENCY FUNDS
Colonization Program (US$ 2.6 Million)                                 31,200
Rural Development Program (US$ 1.1 Million)                            13,200
Coffee Program (US$ 40,000)                                               480
44 880
GRAND TOTAL                                                              l7T3,51f
As of June 30, 1966, there remained available for lending approximately 80
million Bolivian Pesos of the above listed funds distributed as follows:
Initial Amount   Amount   Amount Not
Available      Drawn    Yet Drawn
AID Loan (US$ 2 Million)                          24,000        10,750     13,250
AID Loan (US$ 2.1 Million)                        25,200           -       25,200
Colonization Program (US$ 2.6 Million)            31,200         2,441     28,759
Rural Development Program (US$ 1.1 Million)       13,200           814     12,386
Coffee Program (US$ 40,000)                          480           360         120
94,080       14,365      79,715



ANNEX 3
Table 2
BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
BID AND SAC/AID LOAN PORTFOLIOS BY AREA OF COUITRY
(As of June 30, 1966)
BID                        SAC/AID
No. of Loans     B$t000      No. of Loans     B$'OOO
AREA I
Santa Cruz                    69          12,105            950         25,670
Cochabamba                     9           1,350            496          5,901
78          13,455          1,446         31,571
AREA II
Beni                          13           3,035            277          15,209
La Paz                        13            .550            526           8,245
Oruro                          2             120            175           1,515
28           3,705            978         24,969
AREA III
Chuquisaca                     -             -              446          4,586
Potosi                         _                            235           2,331
Tarija                         4             643            546           2,602
4             643          1,227          9,519
Total c June 30, 1966           110          17,803          3,651          66,059
Total @ December 31, 1965       144          18,896          3,525          54,141
Total © December 31, 1964        98          15,572          3,140          40,337



ANNEX 3
Table 3
BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
December 31, 1964      December 31, 1965
(B$1 000)              ($'000)
ASSETS
Cash and Banks                         4,904                  10,971 1/
Loan Portfolio                        59,500 2/               70,960 3/
Accounts Receivable                     1,039                  1,329
Assets for Resale                       1,170                    582
Foreclosed Properties                     962                  1,095
Property & Equipment                    3,847                  2,000
Other Assets                              514                    596
Outstanding Balances4/                  6,206                    -
TOTAL ASSETS                                78,942                 87,533
CAPITAL & LIABILITIES
Current Accounts                          320                    211
National Treasury                       4,157                  3,787
BID Loan                               17,769                 19,740
Loan Banco Central                      3,682                    -
Colonization Program                      -                    1,009
Rural Development Program                 -                      695
Other Liabilities                       1,876                  1,309
Outstanding Balances 4/                6,249                     -
Capital and Deficits
Capital:
Share Capital          25,981               43,975
Donated Capital        21,321               18,300
Other Capital           7,676                7,698
54,978               69,973
Deficits:
Previous Losses         6,268               10,058
Current Results 5/    (3,821)                  867
10,089                9,191
44,889                 60,782
TOTAL CAPITAL & LIABILITIES                 78,942                 87,533
1/  Includes the amount of B$8.7 million loan funds obtained from international
agencies and earmarked for specific programs. 2/ Before provisions for
bad debts. 3/ After provisions for bad debts. V/ The auditors suggested
the distribution of the component items of these inter-agency balances to
the corresponding accounts for the purpose of presenting consolidated
financial statements. 5/ (Loss) or profits for the year.



AMNEX 3
Table W
BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOMUTS
December 31, 196)4      December 31, 1965
(B$'000)      M%        (B$'000)      (%
Average Resources                         68,469        100       93,311        100
Income
Interest                               4,348                    7,406
Commissions                               593                     315
Other                                     167                     105
5,108      7.46         7,826      8.38
Operating Expenses
Salaries and Allowances                4,691                    4,393
General Expenses                        1,992                   1,166
Depreciation                              344                     245
Uncollectable Documents Written Off        33                     -
7,060     10.31         5,804      6.22
Financial Expenses
Interest on Loans                      1,869       2.73         1,155      1.23
8,929     13.04         6,959      7)45
(Loss) or Profit for the Year             (3,821)    (5-58)          867      0.93



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CENTRAL BANK FUND - PROJECTED RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
YEARS                                  1        2       3       4       5        6       7       8       9        10       11       12        13       14        15       16
(THOUSAND PESOS) 1/
CASH INFLOW
Credit from IDA for Ranch Development  2/                    1,800   4,800   8,000   5,600   2,000    -         -       -       -       -         -        -        -         -         -        -
Credit from IDA for Technical Services                         700     400      300     400     300    -        -       -       -       -
Loan Repayments by BAS                                         -        -       -       -       -    1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   2,400    2,460    2,660    2,761    2,8614        4,188   4,444
Interest Payments by BAB (14%)                                 -       100      308     640     880    972      972   1,004   1,037   1,071    1,107    1,135    1,171    1,211       1,257   1,314
Sovernment Advances for Special Studies  3/                    500     855   1,000      -       -      -        -       -       -       -         -        -         -        -          -       -
3,000   6,155   9,608   6,640   3,180  2,172   2,172   2,204   2,237   3,471    3,567    3,795    3,932    4,075         5,445   5,758
CASH OUTFLOW
Initial Loan to BAB from IDA Credit                          2,500   5,200   8,300   6,ooo   2,300
Payments of IDA Service Charge (0.75%)                         -         20      58     120     165    182      182     182     182     182       182      181       179      178        176     174
Repayments to IDA                                              -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -        243      243       243      243        243     243
Special Studies  3/                                            500      855   1,000     -       -      -        -       -       -        -        -        -         -        -          -       _
Recovery by Government of Advances for Special Studies 4/       -        80     250     520     715    790      -       _       _        -        _        _         _        _          _       _
Subsequent Loans to BAB from Surplus Collections  5/           -       -        -                    1,200   1,990   2,022   2,055   3,289    3,142    3,371    3,510    3,654         5,026   5,341
3,ooo   6,155   9,608   6,640   3,180  2,172   2,172   2,204   2,237   3,471    3,567    3,795    3,932    4,075         5,445   5,758
1/ Figures are rounded.
2/ Government would make interest free advances to the Central Bank Fund as required to cover disbursements to BAB prior to reimbursement by IDA.
3/ To allow the subprojects and special studies mentioned in Para. 18 of the appraisal report to be carried out during the early years of the Project, Sovernment would make interest free
advances to the Central Bank Fund for this purpose.  These advances would be recovered by Government as shown in footnote four.
4s/ The net interest differential resulting for the Central Bank Fund, during the first six years of the Project, would be earmarked for financing the subprojects and special studies                   S
mentiored in Para. 18 of the appraisal report.                                                                                                                                                       H 5
5/ All collections from BAB over and above the amounts required for IDA debt servicing and for the special studies would be made available to BAB for further lending under the Project.



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAB - PROJECTED RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
YEARS                               1        2       3       4       5        6       7       8       9        10       U        12        13       14        15       16
(MILLION PESOS) 1/
CASH INFLOW
IDA Funds for Rancher Loans from Central Bank Fund           1.8     4.8      8.0     5.6     2.0       -       -        -       -       -         -        -         -        -        -         _
IDA Funds for Technical Services from Central Bank Fund      0.7     0.4     0.3      o.4     0.3       -       -        _       _       _         _        _         _        _        _         _
BAB Funds for Rancher Loans                                  0 3     0 8      1.5     lv0     o.4       -       -        _       _       _         _        _         _        _        _         _
BAB Funds for Technical Services                             o:6 2/ 0:2      0.3      0.2     0.3
Rancher Loan itepayments                                      -       -        -       -      0.3      0.7     1.5      2.0     2.9     3.6       4.5      5.5       5.6      4.6      3.1       4.4
Rancher Interest Payments (12%)                               -      0.3      0.9     2.1     2.8      3.1      3.5     3.8     4.2      4.5      4.9      5.4       5.9      6.5      7.2       7.9
Surplus Collections from Central Bank Fund  3/                -       -        -       -       -       1.2     2.0      2.0     2.1     3.3       3.1      3.4       3.5      3.7      5.o       5.3
3.4     6.5   lo.9      9.3     6.1       5.o     7.0     7.8      9.2    11.4     12.5      14.3     15.0     14.3      15.3     17.6
CASPI OUTFLOW
Loans to Ranchers
(a)  From initial BAB and IDA Funds                          2.1     5.6     9.4      6.6     2.4           -       -        -       -        -             -         -        -        -         -
(b)  From BAB's Surplus Collections  4/                       -       -       -        -       -       3.3     2.0      2.8     4.1     3.8       5.-      6.3      6.7       6.2      4.1       5.8
(c)  From Central Bank Fund's Surplus Collections             -       -       -        -       -       1.2     2.0      2.0     2.1     3.3       3.1      3.4      3.5       3.7      5.o       5.3
2.1     5.6     9.4     6.6     2.4       4.5     4.o     4.8     6.2      7.1      o.1       9.7     10.2       9.9      9.1     11.1
Loan Repayments to Central Bank Fund                          -        -       -       -       -       1.2      1.2     1.2     1.2      2.4      2.5       2.7      2.8      2.9       4.2      4.4
Interest Payments to Central Bank Fund (4%)                   -      0.1      0.3     o.6     0.9      1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0      1.1      1.1      1.1       1.2      1.2       1.2      1.3
Technical Services                                           1.2     o.6      0.6     0.6     o.6      o.6      o.6     o.6     o.6      0.6      o.6      o.6       o.6      o.6      o.6       o.6
Share of General Administration                              0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2
Reu;overy by BAB of Technical Services Expenditures  5/       -        -       -       -       -       1,6       -       -       -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -
3.4     6.4    10.4     7.9     4.o       9.1     7.0     7.8      9.2    11.4     12.5      14.3     15.0     14.8      15.3     17.6
Cash Surplus or (Deficit)  6/                                 -      0.1      0.5     1.4     2.1      (4.1)     -       -       -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -
3.4     6.5    10.9     9.3     6.1       5.0     7.0     7.8      9.2    11.4     12.5      14.3     15.0      14.8     15.3     17.6
1/ Figures are rounded.
7/  Includes 0.1 million pesos for first year share of general administration costs.
1/  All collections from BAB over and above the amounts required for IDA debt servicing and for the special studies would be made available to SAB for further
lending under the Project.
4/ BAB's net operating profits and rancher repayments not required for debt servicing would be relent to ranchers under the Project.
5/ In year six, BAB would recover the amounts initially  advancedfor technical services and share of general administration from cash surplus (see footnote six).
;/  A relatively small amount of cash surplus is allowed to accumulate during the early years of the Project (most accumulates in years four and five) to provide greater flexibility.                  ) z
In year six, following completion of IDA disbursements, the accumulated balance is used to repay BAB for initial technical services expenditures and for relending to ranchers
under the Project.



BOLIVIA: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE BAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT DIVISION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND
PRESIDENT
GENERAL MANAGER              V -,                LA PAZ
LIVESTOCK PROJECT DIVISION
LOAN COMMITTEE
BAB GENERAL MANAGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT DIVISION          I          BAB CREDIT MANAGER
LPD PROJECT DIRECTOR
PROJECT DIRECTOR__
PROJECT ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
TRINIDAD
PROJECT DIRECTOR
PROJECT ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
PROJECT FIELD TECHNICIANS
TRINIDAD
MAGDALENA                       SANTA ANA                                                         SAN BORJA
CERCADO
I BRD -3181



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPRNT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 200-CO; BEEF CATT2Z RANCHES
HERD DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
Value of Cattle
Y~ear      Y~ears     Before
CATEGORY            UNIT    o-6         7-12       Beginning                                                                Y E A R S
Pesos      Pesos     Development       1          2          3          4          5         6          7         8         9          10           1:          12
HERD COMPOSITION
Cows                        No.    500         601             200        200        250        300        300        320       350         400     470         500        500         500          500
Bulls                             3,000      3,000              10          10         12        15          10         10        10         12       14         15         15          15           15
Calves  1/                          200        300            (100)      (100)      (138)      (180)       (196)     (224)    (262)        (300)   (352)       (376)      (376)       (376)        (376)
Two-year old Heifers                400        500              46         46         46         47          66         86       95        105      127         145        171         182         182
One-year old Heifers                300        400              50         50          50         69         90         98      112         131     150         176        188         188         188
Three-year old Steers               500        600              42         42         43         43         45          63        83         40       -          -          -           -            -
Two-year old Steers                 400        500              46         46         46         47         66          86       95        109      127         145        171         182         182
One-year old Steers                 300        400              50          50         50         69         90         98      112         131      150        176        188         188          188
Fattening Cull Females              5 450      550              42         42          43        53          45         43        53         42       36         47         50          50           50
Total (icl. calves)                  -          -              586        586        678        813        908      1,028    1,172       1,274   1,426       1.580       1,656       1,681       1,681
Total (exel. calves)    A.U.2/    -             -              465        465        520        610        712        780       910         950   1,052      1,204       1,280       1,280       1,280
Value (incl. calves)         3/      -          -              256        256         296       352        368         412      467         597      698        770        808         818          818
MORTALITY
Two-year old Heifers        No.      -          -                4          4          3          3          2           3         3          3        3          4          4           5            5
One-year old Heifers         n       _          -                 4          4          4          3          3          4         3          3        4          5          5            6           6
rhree-year old Steers               -           -                3          3          3          3          2           2         2          2        1                    -                 -
Two-year old Steers                  -          -                4           4          3          3          2          3         3          3        3          4          4           5            5
One-year old Steers          It      -          -                 4          4          4          3          3          4         3          3        4          5          4            6           6
Fattening Cull Females               -          -                20         20         16         16         18         12         9         13       14         14         19           16          16
Total                                -          -               39         39          33        31          30         28        23         27       29         32         36           38          38
SALES
Three-year old Steers       No.    700         800              39         39          39         40         41         43        61         81       39         -          -            -           -
Two-year old Steers                  -         800              -           -          -          -          -          -         -          52      106        123        141          166         177
Two-year old Heifers                 -         500              -           -          -          -          -          -         -          -        -          46         91         U16          127
Fattening Cull Females              600        600               22         22         26         27         25         33        34         40       28         22          28          34          34
Bulls                        n      800        800                2          2          2          2          5          2         2          2        2          2           3           3           3
Total                                - _                         63         63         67         69         71         78        97        175      175        193        263          319         341
PURCHASES
Breeding Age Heifers        No.    500          -                -          50         50              -                -         -          -        -          -          -            -           -
Breeding Age Bulls           n   3,000       3,000                2          2          4          5         -           2         2          4        4          3           3           3           3
Total                                -          -                 2         52         54          5         -           2         2          4        4           3          3           3           3
PRODUCTION DATA
Effective Calving Nate       %       -          -                50         50         55         60         65         70        75         75       75         75          75          75          75
Adult Mortality              %       -          -                 8          8          7          6          5          4         3          3        3           3          3           3           3
Extraction Rate              %       -          -               11          Ui         10          6          8          a         8         14       12         12         16           19          20
Stocking Rate             Ha,A.U.   -           -                 3          3          3          3        2.5        2.5         2          2        2           2          2           2           2
Carrying  Capacity4/        A.U.    -           -              800         800        800        800        960        960    1,200       1,200   1,200       1,200      1,200       1,200        1,200
Dressed Neight per Head
a) Three-year Steers        K0.      -          -              lo         160        180        180       10         180       180        200      200         -           -           -           -
b) Two-year Stemrs          Kg.      -          -                -          -          -          -          -          -         -         200      200        200         200         200         200
c) Fattening Females        Kg.      -          -              150         150        150        150        160        180       180        200      200        200         200         200         200
d) Bulls                    Kg.      -          -               200        200        200        200        220        220       220        250      250         250        250         250         250
1/  weaned Calves.
7/  For ease of calculation of animal unita, oach existing animal, with -he oxception of calves, is considered to se tne e.uivalent of one anicma  unit.  How"ver, since fattening cull l'
females would be maintained only about six months, they are 'stl-mted to be only 0.5 animal unit.
3/ In thousand Pesos.
77/  Ssctmat-d total nuo-er of animal un't, it would De posaicle to maintain on the ranch during one year.



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CF 200-COW BEEF CATTLE RANCHES
SALES PROJECTIONS
Before
CATEGORY          Beginning                                        YEARS
Development     1     2      3  _4       5      6     7     6      9     10     11      12
(PESOS '000)
Three-year old Steers          27        27    27    28    29    30    43    65    31        -      -      _       _
Two-year old Steers             -         -      _  -        -     -      -    42    85    98    133    133   l1,2
Two-year old Heifers            -         -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -    23      46     58     64
Fattening Cull Females         13        13    16    16    15    20    20    24    17    13        17     20      20
Bulls                           2         2     2      2     14    2     2      2     2     2       2      2       2
SUB-TOTAL                     42         42    45    46    48    52    65   133   135   136    198    213    228
CHEESE  I/                     16        16    20    24    36    39    42    16    19    20        20     20      20
TOTAL PLAN I                   58        58    65    70    84    91   107   149   154   156    218    233    248
FATTENING OPERATION  2/         -         -    76    76    76    76    76       -     -      -      -       -      -
TOTAL PLAN II                  58        58   141   146   160   167   183   149  1514  156    218    233    248
1/  Cheese Sales:  Estimated to return 160 Pesos/cow milked/year.  During years 0-3, 50 per cent of the cows would
be milked 100 days;  years 4-6, 75 per cent of cows would be milked and years 7-12, 25 per cent of the cows
would be milked.  It is estimated that each cow would produce 2 liters of milk per day or 200 liters during
the 100 day milking season.  It requires 10 liters of milk to produce 1 kilogram of cheese.  This results
in a production of 20 kilograms of cheese/cow milked/year.  Cheese is sold at 8 Pesos per kilogram resulting
tn a return of 160/Pesos/cow milked/year.
2/  .inety five head at 800 Pesos/head annually during years two through six.



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 200-COW BEEF CATTLE RANCHES
OPERATING EXPENSES PROJECTIONS
Before
OPERATING EXPENSES          Beginning                                        YEARS
Development     1      2     3     4      5     6      7     8     9      10     11      12
(PESOS '000)
Labor  1/                          4           4     4     4      8     8     8    13    13    13       13      13     13
Vaccines  2/                       3           4     5      7     8    10    12    13    15    16       16      17     17
Veterinary Supplies  3/            2           3     4      6     7     8      9    10    12    12      13      14     14
Salt  4/                           2           3     5     6      6     8      9    10    12    12      13      14     14
Bone Meal  5/                       -          -     1      3     5     7      9     9    I1    11      11      12     12
Maintenance  6/                    1           1     1      1     1     1      1     1     6      8      9       9      9
Purchase of BLls  7/              6           -      -     -     -     6      6    12      9     9      9       9      9
TOTAL PLAN I                      18          15    20    27    35    48    54    68    78    81        84      88     88
PURCHASE FATTENING ANIMALS  8/    -            -    50    50    50    50    50       -      -     -      -       -      -
FATTENING OPERATION EXPENSES 9/   -            -     2      2     2     2      2     -      -     -      -       -       -
TOTAL PLAN II                     18          15    72    79    87   100   106    68    78    81        84      88     88
1/  Basic salary of 150 Pesos per month plus 200 Pesos per month for food and medicines per cowboy resulting in a cost
of 4,200 Pesos per cowboy per year.  Years 1 to 3:  one cowboy;  years 4 to 6:  two cowboys;  years 7 to 12: 3 cowboys.
2/  Vaccine cost would gradually increase from 6 Pesos per head in year one to 10 Pesos per head in year twelve due to a
more intensive application of disease control measures.
3/  General herd health expenses would increase gradually from 5 Pesos per head in year one to 8 Pesos per head in year
twelve due to application of a more intensive animal health program.
4/ Cost per head increased from 5 Pesos in year one to 8 Pesos in year twelve.
</  Due to the fact that at present mineral feeding of cattle is not practiced, consumption and consequent cost per head
in early years is quite low.  Cost per head is estimated to increase from 0.5 Pesos in year one to 7 Pesos in year   e-3 :
twelve.
6/  Estimated to be two per cent of original value of corrals and five per cent of original value of buildings, fences   m .
and , itter facilities.                                                                                                     w CY
7/ Based upon herd development projection at an average cost of 3,000 Pesos per bull purchased.
8/  Based upon 100 head per ranch at 500 Pesos per head during years two through six.
7/ Estimated at 20 Pesos per head per year.



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 200-CoW BEEF CATTLE RANCHES
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - PLAN I
Before
ITEM                           Beginning                                       YEARS
Development   1      2     3      4     5      6     7            9    10    11       12
(PESOS '000)
1. Cash Inflow
(a)  Total sales Plan I                           58        58    65    70    84    91   107   149   154   156   218   233    248
(b)  Loan                                           -       70    70    34       -     -    -      -     -      -     -      -      -
(c)  Total cash inflow                            58       128   135   104    64    91   107   149   154   156   216   233    245
2.  Cash Oatflow
(a) Rancher's investment contribution 1/            -        8      8     5      -     -    -      -     -      -     -      -      -
(b)  Investment of loan funds                       -       70    70    34       -     -    -      -      -     -     -      -       -
(c)  Operating expenses Plan I                    18        15    20    27    35    48    54    68    78    81    84    88          88
(d)  Total cash outflow                            18       93    98    66    35    48    54    68    75    d1    84    88          88
3.  Cash Balance (lc-2d)                               40        35    37    38    49    43    53    81    76    75   134   145    160
4. Interest Payments
(a)  Loan  2/                                       -        8    17    21    21    21    19    18    17    15    12          8      4
(b) Operating expenses  3/                          -        2      2     3     4      6      6     8      9    10    10    11      11
5.  Cash balance after interest payments(3-4)          40        25    18    14    24    16    28    55    50    50   112   126    145
6.  Loan amortization  4/                               -         -     -      -     -     9      9    17    17    26    26    35        35
7.  Cash balance after loan amortization (5-6)         40        25    18    14    24      7    19    38    33    24    86    91    110
8. Accumulated cash balance                            40       65    83    97   121   125   147   185   218   242   325   419    529
9.  Accumulated incremental herd value                  -         -    40    96   112   156   211   341   442   514   552   562    562
10. Total accumulated value (8+9)                      40        65   123   193   233   254   358   526   660   756  580   981  1,091
1/ Twenty per cent of total investment costs, 50 per cent of which is provided as labor and materials.
2/ Twelve per cent including payment for technical services.
3/  Twelve per cent on total operating expenses.                                                                                              6 ¢
4/ Repayment schedule of 5, 5, 10, 10, 15, 15, 20 and 20 per cent.
El



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 200-COW BEEF CATTLE RANCHES
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - PLAN II
Before
ITEM                        Beginning                                       YEARS
Development   1      2     3      4     5     6      7     8      9    10      11     12
(PESOS '000)
1. Cash Inflow
(a)  Total sales Plan II                          58        58    141   146   160   167   183   149   154   156   218   233    248
(b)  Loan                                           -       70     70    34    -       -     -      -     -      -     -      -      -
(c)  Total cash inflow                            58       128    211   180   160   167   183   1)49   154   156   218   233    245
2. Cash Outflow
(a)  Rancher's investment contribution 1/           -        8       8     5    -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -      -
(b)  Investment of loan funds                       -       70     70    34    -       -     -      -     -      -     -      -      -
(c)  Operating expenses Plan II                   18        15     72    79    87   100   106    68    78    81    84    88          88
(d)  Total cash outflow                           18        93    150   11    87   100   106    68    78    51    84    BB          58
3.  Cash Balance (lc-2d)                               40       35      61    62    73    67    77    81    76    75   134   145    160
4.  Interest Payents
(a)  Loan 2/                                        -        8     17    21    21    21    19    18    17    15    12          8      4
(b)  Operating expenses  3/                         -        2       9     9    10    12    13       8     9    10    10    11       11
5.  Cash balance after interest payments (3-4)         40       25      35    32    42    34    45    55    50    50   112   126    145
6.  Loan amortization  4/                               -         -     -     -      -      9      9    17    17    26    26    35       35
7.  Cash balance after loan amortization (5-6)         40       25      35    32    42    25    36    35    33    24    56    91    110
8.  Accumulated cash balance                           40       65    100   132   174   199   235   273   306   330   416   507    617
9. Accumulated incremental herd value                   -         -     40    96   112   156   211   341   442   51h   552   562    562
10. Total accumulated value (8 + 9)                    40       65    140   225   286   355   446   614   748   844   948 1,069  1,179
1/  Twenty per cent of total investment costs, 50 per cent of which is provided as labor and materials.
2/ Twelve per cent including payment for technical services.
3/  Twelve per cent of total operating expenses.
4/  Repayment schedule of 5, 5, 10, 10, 15, 15, 20 and 20 per cent.



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION        1/
INCREMENTAL COSTS AND BENEFITS - PLAN I
Y E A R S
ITEM                     1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9      10       11      12       13     14       15v
(MILLION PESOS)
BENEFITS
Incremental Sales                    -        0.21     0.71     1.87      3.13     4.94      7.49    10.86    i4.l1   16.42   20.11   25.65   27.45   28.50  28.50
COSTS
Total On-Ranch Investment Costs   2.59        6.91    11.67      8.21     3.02        -        -        -        -        -       -        -       -        -      -
Incremental Operating Costs       (0.09)l  (o.o9)-2  0.16       1.10      2.38     3.77      5.40     6.82      8.39    9.33    9.81   10.22   10.50   10.50  10.50
Technical Services                 1.09       0.63     o.64      0.62     0.62      0.40     o.40      0.440    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40   0.40
TOTAL COSTS                        3-59       7.45    12.47      9.93     6.02      4.17     5.80      7.22     8.79    9.73   10.21   10.62   10.90   10.90  10.90
Net Flow                          (3.59)    (7.24)  (11.76)   (8.06)   (2.89)    0.77        1.69      3.64     5.32    6.69    9.90   15.03   16.55   17.60  17.60
Net Flow to Ranchers   /          (2.50)     (6.61)  (11.12)   (7.44)   (2.27)    1.17       2.09      4.04     5.72    7.09   10.30   15.43   16.95   18.00  18.00
NOTES:   (a)  The financial rate of return of the project over a twenty year period is 19 per cent.
(b) The economic rate of return of the project over a twenty year period is 17 per cent.
Based on 30 ranches started first year, 50 second year and 70 third year; total of 150.
J Based on a reduction of operating costs of 3,000 pesos per ranch during first year.
3/ Excluding technical services.
/ Costs and benefits continue unchanged after year 15.  At the end of year 20 the increase in the value of the herds
totalling 7.43 million pesos is taken into consideration for calculating both rates of return.



BOLIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
INCREMENTAL COSTS AND BENEFITS - PLAN II  1/
ITEM                                                         Y E A R S
1          2           3          14          5           6          7           58J
(MILLION PESOS)
BENEFITS
Incremental Sales                     -        2.49       6.79        13.27      14.53       16.34       16.61       16.18
COSTS
Total On-Ranch Investment Costs    2.59        6.91      11.67         8.21        3.02         -          -           -
Incremental Operating Costs        (o.o9)2/   1.47        4.32         8.90      10.18       11.57       11.64       10.46
Technical Services                  1.09       0.63       o.64         0.62        0.62       0.40        0.40        0.40
TOTAL COSTS                         3.59       9.01      16.63        17.73       13.82      11.97       12.04       10.86
Net Flow                           (3.59)    (6-52)      (9.84)       (4.46)       0.71       4.37        4.57        5.32
Net Flow to Ranchers  3/           (2.50)    (5.89)      (8.84)       (3.84)       1.33       4.77        4.97        5.72
NOTES:  (a)  The financial rate of return of the project over a twenty year period is 25 per cent.
(b) The economic rate of return of the project over a twenty year period is 22 per cent.
1/  Based on 30 ranches started first year, 50 second year and 70 third year, total of 150.
2/ Based on a reduction of operating costs of 3,000 pesos per ranch during first year.
3/  Excluding technical services.
4/ After year 8 the fattening operation ceases and costs and benefits are identical to Plan I, and costs and
benefits continue unchanged after year 15. At the end of year 20 the increase in the value of the herds
totalling 7.43 million pesos is taken into consideration for calculating both rates of return.



B*LIVIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GENERAL PROJECT LOCATION                                MAP 1
s-                                 -    46                      t
-0Kl 1966                                                                        lan-156,4
f /  W:::"   '''-" f           < t{*''1                           __'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Orf 
t~~6                                                                             ' ;",KK <    KK.
tK   B  <   E    "  t    t6t 1  b o °    K         S  W  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ocl 
%                   l.go..,.daK 
pS'\.  K               K          sZ<Kt                  I            K~bol
L.a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~    ~       ,,O3CHE 
|   //\ \/-/e--_y  _-_    _   _-
62 ~ ~   P 9                                                 o 4   0  0 IO
t~~~~~~~h 
Y^V ME b    i 66taH                                                                         _1 66



B O L I V I A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECOLOGY OF THE LOWLANDS (LLANOS) OF BOLIVIA
~~7      Dense forest of the Beni, with
Inclusions of seasonally waterlogged
grassland
u-.;;--lMedium to light forest of Santa Cruz,
X  ...  with inclusions of edaphic and five-
Lt-!..L..jclimax grassland
:    :   .  ''i'  Chaco, xerophitic woodland and scrub
i  Flood plain grassland of the Beni
7I                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~with inclusions of forest
-.                                                                                        The "cultivation Steppe" of Santa Cruz
1111I11I11 11I   0                            ~~~~~Grassland of the San Matias plalns,
-7    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~~ 3                   possibly partly edaphic and partly
flood plain of the Paraguay river
0     loo  200    300  400   500
NOVEMBER 1966                                                                                                                                    IBRD-1874



