RESTRICTED
Report No. P - 542
FILE Copy
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED.DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
LIVESTOCK RPOJECT
May 4, 1967



REPORT AND RECOINMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUrIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOBIENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF
BOLIVIA FOR A LIVESTOCK PROJECr
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit in various currencies equivalent to US$2 million to
the Republic of Bolivia for a livestock project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Tiring the Annual Meeting of 1964, the Bank was approached
by the Bolivian Development Corporation for technical assistance in
the development of the beef cattle industry in the lowlands. Arrange-
ments for project preparation were made under the FAO/IBRD cooperative
program and a mission visited Bolivia in July/August 1965.     In March
1966, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
presented an application for a livestock project prepared by the FAO/
IBRD mission.   The project was appraised by an IDA mission in August/
September 1966. Negotiations took place in Washington in early IHiarch
1967 with Mlessrs. Mario Salinas Zalles, Under-Secretary at the Ministry
of Agriculture, Alberto Valdes Loma, General Manager of the Agricultural
Bank, and Gaston Guillen, Chief of the Banking Department at the Ministry
of Finance.
3.        IDA is the only institution in the World Bank Group which has
lent to Bolivia.   The status of the previous credits, as of April 30,
1967, is as follows:
(US$ million)
No.      Year             Borrower             Purpose     Amount   Undisbursed
61 BO    1964         Republic of Bolivia       Power       10.0       1.7
62 BO    1964         Republic of Bolivia       Power        5.0       0.7
71.O6      T 2.4
4.        Recently, IDA has been asked by Empresa Nacional de Electricidad,
the beneficiary under Credit 61 BO, to consider financing further expan-
sion of its power generating facilities.
5.        A mission organized under the UNESCO/IBRD cooperative program
visited Bolivia in September/October 1966 to survey the education system
and identify a project.    Their report should be completed shortly.



- 2 -
6.        The Bank is Eaecuting Agency for a transport survey in Bolivia
financed by the United Nations Development Programme. The survey began
at the end of March 1967 and should be completed in about 15 months.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED DEVEWPMENT CREDIT
7.        Borrower:                 Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiary:             Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
Amount:                   In various currencies equivalent to
US$2 million
Purpose:                 To increase beef production by
helping to finance a credit program
for livestock producers and providing
related technical services.
Amortization:             In semi-annual installments
commencing May 15, 1977, and ending
November 15, 2016; each installment
to and including the installment
payable on November 15, 1986 to be
½ of 1 percent and each installment
thereafter to-be 1½ percent of the
principal amount.
Service Charge:           3/4 of 1 percent per annum
Relending terms:         The Borrower would relend the proceeds
of the Development Credit to the
Beneficiary at 4 percent for 16 years,
including 5 years of grace.    The
Beneficiary would, in turn, make loans
to ranchers at 12 percent for 12 years,
including 4 years of grace. During the
16 year period, repayments by ranchers
would be relent again by the Borrower
through the Beneficiary on the same terms
and conditions.
PARE III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Beni Livestock Development Pro-
ject" (TO-585a) is attached.



- 3 --
9.        In Bolivia, agriculture serves mainly subsistence needs.   It
employs about two-thirds of the working population but contributes little
more than 5 percent to export earnings.    Development of beef cattle pro-
duction in the lowlands appears presently to be the most effective way
to promote expansion of agricultural exports.    By virtue of natural
characteristics and marketing facilities, the Beni Department in the
northeast of the country offers the best opportunities for production
growth.   Wiith better methods of pasture and herd management, and with
the availability of long-term credit for on-farm investment, the ranchers
in the Beni should be able substantially to increase supplies of beef for
domestic and foreign consumption.    Support for agriculture is now the
avowed policy of the Government, which aims at gradually lessening Bolivia's
dependence on mining for foreign exchange earnings.
10.       During the first 16 years, the proceeds of the development
credit would be relent to ranchers in the Beni by the Agricultural Bank
of Bolivia. This Government-owned bank is presently the only institu-
tional source of long and medium-term credit for ranch development and
has served as a vehicle for agricultural credit programs financed by
U.S. AID and IDB.   The 25 year history of the Agricultural Bank has
been a chequered one.    In the fifties, the bank suffered losses in
making socially-motivated loans to small farmers on instructions from
the Government.   The situation has improved since it was reorganized,
starting in 1963, with the help of U.S. AID.    AID funds were used to
strengthen the capital structure and U.S. consultants were assigned to
the bank to advise on policy and administration.    The present General
Manager is competent and experienced.
11.       The project would be administered by a special division of the
Agricultural Bank headed by an internationally recruited livestock expert,
acceptable to IDA, who will be the Project Director.    His appointment is
a condition of the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement.
12.       After 16 years, the Government would be free to use the repay-
ments accruing to it (after principal payments to IDA) for livestock
development throughout the country, channeling the funds through any qua-
lified credit institution.
13.       The project would improve pasture and herd management on about
150 ranches in the Beni Department by providing long-term loans to finance
investment in fencing, handling and watering facilities, ranch construc-
tion and breeding stock, related technical services, and short-term loans
for working capital.   The long-term loans would be made on the basis of
ranch development plans prepared with the help of the staff of the special
division of the Agricultural Bank and approved by the Project Director.



14.       The proceeds of the proposed credit, together with funds
derived from other sources, would be used by the Agricultural Bank in
making long-term loans to ranchers for ranch development and in pro-
viding technical services.    It is estimated that some $0.9 million of
the credit would be disbursed for foreign expenditure.    The Agricultu-
ral Bank would make short-term loans for working capital out of its
other resources. The ranchers wqould meet about 20 percent of the cost
of ranch development.
15.       The demonstration value of the project should be considerable
and interest in agricultural credit programs coupled with technical
services should spread in the lowlands. In order to lay the groundwork
for further livestock lending to Bolivia, which may follow on the pilot
project now proposed, the Government would make funds available to the
Agricultural Bank to develop several model ranches in the Departments of
Santa Cruz and Tarija, to survey land tenure in the lowlands, and to
carry out a country-wide marketing study of beef and live cattle.    The
results of the marketing study in particular would be of great signifi-
cance in formulating the basis on which IDA, or the Bank, could consider
future lending for livestock in Bolivia.
16.       Individual purchases of goods for on-ranch investment would be
small and spread over the five years of disbursement of the development
credit.   In these circumstances, bulk procurement would not be possible.
Ranchers will buy through existing commercial channels.   Numerous local
suppliers and representatives of foreign firms are established in Bolivia
and compete among themselves. IMost goods for on-ranch investment are
produced locally.    A small number of breeding bulls would be imported,
subject to the approval of the Project Director, from countries with
conditions similar to those prevailing in the Bolivian lowlands. Methods
and procedures for the procurement of equipment for the technical services
would be established by the Project Director, subject to the approval
of IDA.
PAR' IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Bolivia and IDA, the draft Project Agreement between IDA and the Agri-
cultural Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately.
18.       The draft Agreements contain the covenants normally included
in livestock development projects. The following provisions are to be
noted:



(a)   Section 4.02 (a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement provides that the Borrower will establish
at its Central Bank a Project Revolving Fund ex-
clusively to make and receive payments connected with
the Project.
(b)   Sections 1.02 (f) and 6.01 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement provide that a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia and the
Agricultural Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA, will have been executed and ratified by all
necessary action prior to the Effective Date.
(c)   Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement provides
that the Agricultural Bank will supply the working
capital required by the participating ranchers, by
means of short-term loans from its own resources.
19.       The date in Section 6.03 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment takes account of the fact that the credit documents will have to be
submitted to the Bolivian Congress for ratification.
PAR' V - THE ECNNONIY
20.       A report on the "Current Economic Situation and Prospects of
Bolivia" (TuH-168b) was distributed to the Executive Directors on January
12, 1967 (R67-8).   It concludes that Bolivia, while remaining one of
the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere, has made considerable
progress in recent years toward economic viability.    Improvements in
domestic policies, in conjunction with favorable export prices, have re-
sulted in increased public and private savings. Dependence on external
assistance has been reduced and the public sector relied in 1966 on
project aid only.
21.       Nevertheless, Bolivia will continue to need substantial capital
inflows from abroad, if the country is to maintain the investment required
to break away from the traditional economic structure. In view of heavy
service payments on the large external debt, most of the borrowing in the
immediate future will have to be on non-conventional terms; howiever, in
view of expected petroleum developments, the prospects for improved foreign
exchange earnings and for Bolivia becoming creditworthy for loans by the
Bank will have to be reviewed periodically.
PART VI - CONPLIANCE W4ITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of IDA.



PARr VII - RECOIIiENDATION
23.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION No.
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic
of Bolivia (Beni Livestock Development Project)
in an amount equivalent to US$2,000,000.
RESOLVED:
That the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Bolivia in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
two million United States dollars (US$2,000,000) to mature on and prior
to November 15, 2016, to bear a service charge of three-quarters of one
percent (3/4 of l) per annum and to be upon such other terms and condi-
tions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the form of the Development Credit Agreement (Beni
Livestock Development Project) between the Republic of Bolivia and the
Association and the form of Project Agreement (Beni Livestock Develop-
ment Project) between the Association and Banco Agricola de Bolivia,
which have been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D.C.
Hlay h, 1967
Attachments



