0
CREDIT NUMBER 107 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Beni Livestock De relopment Project)
BETWEEN
0
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 26, 1967


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 107 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Beni Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 26, 1967


﻿0
Drltopmrt idrbit Agrument
AGREEMENT, dated M\ay 26, 1967, between REPUBLIC
oF BOLIVIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTE1-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMEN ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of
the Association dated June 1, 1961, as amended Feb.uary 9,
1967 with the same force and offect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said Development Credit Regulations No. 1
being hereinafter called the Regulations).
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever use(d in this Development Credit
Agreement have the following meanings:
(a) The term "Central Bank" means the BaRco ('entral
de Bolivia.
(b) The term  "BAB" means the B(ano Agricol(t dc
Bolivia.
(c) The term "Project Agreement" means the agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Association
and BAB, as the same may be amended or supple-
mented from time to time by agreement between the
Association and BAB.
(d) The term 1'ranch development plan" means a pro-
posal for investing in fencing, stock handling and
watering facilities, essential ranch constructions,
stock and pasture management equipment and tools,
selected pasture establishment and limited numbers
0


﻿4
of breeding cattle or other rcelated on-ranch items or
any combination thereof, and for the provision of
working capital and technical services in connection
therewith.
(e) The term "Project Director"i means the livestock
expert referred to in Section 2.09 of the Project
Agreement.
(f) The term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BAB, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
(g) The term "Project Area" means the Provinces of
Balli'idn, Ya a, ? aow ory, Ienez, ercado, M31arbdu
and Mo.ros of the Departamento del Beni of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit
Account in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to
such Credit Account the amount of the Credit. The amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, this Development Credit Agree-
ment.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of this Development Credit Agreement, to withdraw


﻿」


﻿6
November 15, 20161 each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1.5, 1986, to be one-half
of one per ceu t ('/ ) of 114) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(11121lo) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTIO.NT 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost of
the goods re(piired to carry out the Project. The specific
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit, the specific goods
to be -financed therefrom and the methods and procedures
for procurement of such goods shall be determined by
agreement between the Association and BAB acting on
behalf of the Borrower, subject to modification by further
agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except tis the Ass-ociation shall otherwise
agree, the Borrro.srer shall, cause all goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used in the territories of
the Borrower exchisively in JL-be carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SF,CTIO-,\- 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be car6ed out by BAB with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound agricultural, administrative,
econonde and financial practices and shall cause BAB to be
provided, promptly as needed, with th(- funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement for the purpose of relending the equivalent of
the proceeds of the Credit to BAB. The Borrower shall
exercise its rights in relation to the Subsidiary Loan
A0,reenient in such inanner as to protect the interests of the


﻿7
Borrower and the Association. Except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any pro-
vision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) The operating policies and procedures for the carry-
ing out of the Project shall be agreed upon from time to
time between the Borrower, the Association and BAB.
SECTIO. 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish or cause
to be established at the Central Bank a Fund (hereinafter
called the Project Revolving Fund) under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association to be used
exclusively to make and receive payments connected with
the Project. The Borrower shall advance to the Project
Revolving Fund, from time to time, promptly as needed,
such amounts as shall be necessary to (i) carry out its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (ii)
meet the expenditures incurred by BAB, during the first
three years of the Project, for the purpose of carrying
out the provisions of Section 2.13 of the Project Agreement.
(b) Payments by BAB of principal and interest under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be made to the
Project Revolving Fund and the Borrower shall cause all
sums so paid to be used for the purpose of continuing the
financing of livestock development in the territories of the
Borrower, except for sums required to (i) service the
Credit, (ii) meet the administrativo expenses arising from
the Project and (iii) recover, witlin six years from the
date of this Development Credit Agreement, the sums
advanced to the Project Revolving Fund pursuant to
paragraph (a) (ii) above.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the accounts relating to
the Project Revolving Fund to be audited annually by an
accountant acceptable to the Association and shall promptly
thereafter and not later than four months after the close
of the Borrower's financial year transmit to the Association


﻿8
certified copies of such accounts and a signed copy of the
accountant's report.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the
Project Revolving Fund; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concering the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the
goods, and the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Project Revolving Fund.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end:
(a) the Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under this DevelopmenL Credit Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Project Revolving Fund, the financial and economic con-
difions in the territories of the Borrower, and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower;
(b) the Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with or threatens LU
interfere with the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and


﻿9
(c) the Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, niposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTIOx 4.06. This Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in
effect in its territories on or in connection with the execi-
tion, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall take reasonable meas-
ures to establish and maintain in the Project Area (i) an
effective foot-and-mouth disease control program and (ii)
an effective procedure for prompt clarification of land titles.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 3.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations or if any event specified in para-
graphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this Development
Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any
subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Asso-
ciation, at its option, may declare the principal of the C edit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and


﻿10
upon such declaration such principal shall become due and
payable immediately, anything in this Development Credit
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 3.02. The following are specified as additional
events for the purposes of paragraph (k) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations:
(a) BAB shall have failed to perform any covenant or
agreement of BAB under the Project Agreement.
(b) A default shall have occurred in the performance
of any covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower
or BAB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BA  will be able to perform
its obligations undei .re Project Agreeme-.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
8.01(b) of the Regulations:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of BAB have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and BAB have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental and corporate action;
(c) the Borrower has deposited into the Project Revolv-
ing Fund the amount of one million Bolivian pesos;
and
(d) BAB has employed the Project Director.


﻿11
HECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 8.02(b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, BAB and constitutes a valid and binding obli-
gation of BAB in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and BAB and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
BAB in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the Project Revolving Fund has been duly and
validly created and that all acts, consents and
approvals therefor have been duly and validly per-
formed or given.
SECTIOx 6.03. The date of October 1, 1967, in hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1972,
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association as the Closing Date.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Alinisterio de Hacienda
La Paz, Bolivia
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
MINHACIENDA
LA PAZ, BOLIVIA


﻿12
For the Association:
Liternational 1)velopieint Association
1818 H Street, N..
Washington, 1D. (. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
lildevas
Washingon, ID. C.
SECTrox' 7.03. Th incs/ro de iaciend of Ilie 3orrower
is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of the
IRegulations.
IN  ITNESS AfEREoF, tle parties hl-et.o acting tlroigh
their relpesentatives thereunto dly autliorized, have caused
Ithis Deveiopment Credit Agreement to be sigied in their
respective nm iles ndelivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the (lay an( year first
above written.
REPUBLIÄC 1o BOLIVIA
By   /s/ J. SANJINEs (1.
Authorized1 Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. BROCTIEs
General Counsel


﻿13
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project, which is the first stage of a livestock develop-
ment program of the Borrower, consists in providing beef
cattle producers in the Project Area with the following:
(1) long-term loans for investment in ranch development;
(2) related technical services; and
(3) short-term loans for working capital, exclusively
from BAB's own resources.


