Report No. PIC4430
Project Name              Georgia-Social Investment Fund Project
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Social Sector
Project ID                GEPA39929
Borrower                  Georgia
Implementing Agency       Georgia Social Investment Fund
5, S.Virsaladze St.
Tbilisi, Georgia
Tel: 99532-98-21-44
Fax: 99532-96-39-68
Date PID Prepared         November 11, 1997
Projected Appraisal       March/April, 1997
Projected Board Date      October, 1997
Background
1.   Country and Sector Background
Georgia is a country of 5.4million people bounded by the Black Sea,
Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Turkey. At independence in April 1991 it
appeared to be among the best placed of the former Soviet states to make
a successful and rapid transition. It had a highly educated labor force,
a long tradition of enterpreneurship, with significant underground
economy, and a successful agricultural sector. Furthermore, the
country's location made it primary transit conduit for goods shipped
elsewhere in the Caucasus. Since independence Georgia has suffered from
intense civil conflict, resulting in a large influx of refugees (about
270,000) worsening the economic situation of the country. In recent
years, the Georgian economy has been greatly affected by the disruption
in payments and trade within the FSU, by large terms of trade shocks,
and by output declines in Russia and elsewhere in the region. These
factors aggravated by loose financial policies after independence, have
resulted in the sharp economic decline and worsening of living
conditions currently observed in Georgia With progress achieved toward
political stability with the benefit of greater law and order, the
Government in early 1994, with assistance from the IMF and the World
Bank, a program to stabilize and reform the economy. Since then
considerable progress has been achieved in curbing inflation and
stabilizing the external value of the currency. At the same time serious
progress has been achieved in implementing deep structural reforms.
Several measures were introduced to improve targeting of social benefits
in order to maintain a minimum social safety net.
The World Bank supports the economic reform process and, in particular,
plans to contribute to the restructuring of the social sectors and the
social protection programs through advice and financing aimed at
improving the efficiency of these programs to improve service delivery
within tight resource constraints. However, this process will take time,
and meanwhile, rapid and visible actions are needed in the area of



improvement of living conditions of the population and employment
creation. The existing governmental structure, central and local, will
not have the capacity to carry out such actions efficiently in near
future. New approaches to carry out rehabilitation and maintenance at
the local level are needed to be introduced. There is therefore strong
rationale for the World Bank to respond favorably to the request of the
Georgian Government to support an operation in this area.
2.   Objectives
The principal objectives of the proposed project are: (i) poverty
alleviation through demand driven rehabilitation of social
infrastructure; (ii) capacity building of local communities and private
contractors; and (iii)generation of local employment. This will be
achieved by ensuring the participation of community members, NGOs, local
government and other stakeholders in the identification, implementation
and supervision of rehabilitation projects across a variety of sectors
(i.e. health, education, water sanitation, etc.,) The approach will help
engender an attitude of increased self-reliance by communities and a
gradual assumption of responsibility and participation in the delivery
of services and maintenance of infrastructure facilities. It will
provide a bridge between a state-centered approach to operation and
maintenance of infrastructure to a decentralized system with greater
civil society participation. Through these activities, the project will
help the government sustain its poverty reduction efforts and maintain
social cohesion during the period of economic transition, while
strengthening the institutional capabilities of local governments,
communities and NGOs.
3.   Description
The proposed project will include the three following components:
(a)    Small scale infrastructure rehabilitation of local and
regional level health clinics, pre-school and school facilities,
sanitation and hygiene works, water supply, energy-generating
facilities, roads, rehabilitation of degraded towns and villages
through environmental cleanup and tree-planting.
(b)    Institutional support for GSIF through provision of
equipment, vehicles, salaries, operating costs, training, technical
assistance and financing for monitoring and evaluation.
(c)    Strengthening of institutional and management capacity of
communities through provision of training and technical assistance
to implementing agencies, contractors and other private firms.
Technical assistance will focus on competitive bidding, preparation
of proposals contracts, monitoring work progress and community
participation.
4.   Financing
The proposed IDA credit of US$14 million equivalent is indicative this
stage and amounts to 82 percent of the total project cost (excluding
taxes). Although it is too early to identify Project costs with
precision, it is expected that about US$13.5 million would be needed for
priority investments and US$3.5 million for implementation, technical
assistance, and training. The Government, as well as local communities
are expected to make financial contributions as a requirement for credit
effectiveness. Co-financing on the grant basis will be sought during
project preparation, particularly for technical assistance training and
-2 -



studies. The USAID has already provided grant which will support the
pilot preparation phase.
5.   Implementation
The GSIF is an autonomous government agency that will work according to
the Operational Manual developed during the pilot phase. The GSIF will
implement project through registered implementing agencies (community
groups, local governments, NGOs), which in turn will procure contractors
(private contractors or community groups) to carry out infrastructure
rehabilitation works. During the main phase the GSIF's activities will
start in the two Pilot Phase target regions and gradually move on to the
other regions. It is expected that by the end of the Pilot Phase (March-
April) GSIF engineers will have approved a pipeline of approximately
twenty micro-projects.
6.   Sustainability
The two primary factors ensuring a micro-project's sustainability are a
commitment from the local or other government entities and/or the
community for the facilities future operation and maintenance, and
beneficiary participation in the micro-project's implementation, with a
specific emphasis on community input in the project's identification.
Obtaining a commitment by government authorities regarding the future
operation of the facility requires careful co-ordination with line
ministries and regional officials to ensure that the facility will not
be phased out or its function modified, and/or to understand the impacts
of privatization n a facility. Participating communities will be
requested to submit plans for sustainability and to demonstrate progress
on plans prior to micro-project implementation. Strong emphasis will be
placed on broad beneficiary participation in the identification process
so that the community's most urgent needs will be addressed. The GSIF
will target its activities to rehabilitation of existing infrastructure
that already has institutional commitment in place of budget, staff and
equipment. Further, the GSIF will focus its efforts on rehabilitation of
small-and medium-scale infrastructure facilities, given micro-project
cost limitations and the difficulty of instilling a sense of community
responsibility for large facilities that may be well beyond the capacity
of the community to maintain.
7.   Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
There is an ongoing shift by external donors from humanitarian aid to
sustainable development programs in Georgia. The Municipal
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project has offered valuable insights into
the strong performance of the semi-autonomous implementing agency.
However, Government centered projects such as the MIRP and proposed
Water/Municipal II are not capable of identifying diverse, local
community priorities.. Rehabilitation in the health sector is focusing
mainly on consolidation efforts in larger communities. There is a
development gap to be filled in terms of rural and urban community-based
projects which target the poor and involve local committees in design
and implementation.
8.   Poverty Category
The project is expected to have a positive impact on poor and low income
groups among the Georgian population, through improvement of the quality
of basic social services and infrastructure, creation of employment
- 3-



opportunities,
9.   Environmental Aspects
It is expected that the microprojects to be financed under the GSIF will
be very small, have a marginally positive or beneficial environmental
impact on the community. Therefore the proposed project is classified
under category C. However each micro-project will be reviewed from an
environmental impact and mitigation perspective, in particular, those
projects involving sanitation, water, health clinics, roads.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending
November 15, 1996.
-4-



