Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
CREDIT NUMBER 3020 GE
Project Agreement
(Social Investment Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GEORGIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Dated January 21, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3020 GE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 21, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and GEORGIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND (GSIF).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
GEORGIA (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,600,000) on the terms and 
condition set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
the GSIF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement; and
(B) The GSIF, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The GSIF declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall: (i) carry out Parts A through C of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project; and (ii) shall assist SDS in 
matters of procurement, preparation of disbursement documentation, reporting and 
monitoring of Part D of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the GSIF shall otherwise agree, the GSIF shall carry 
out Parts A through C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The GSIF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A through C of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the GSIF shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association not later than 
six 
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Association and 
the GSIF, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the GSIF on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) The GSIF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b) 
The GSIF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the GSIF of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the GSIF
Section 3.01. The GSIF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The GSIF shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound practices.
Section 3.03. The GSIF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Page  3
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The GSIF shall maintain (i) records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition; and (ii) separate records and accounts in respect of Part D of the Project.
(b) 
The GSIF shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, those for the Special Account and its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income 
and expenses 
and related statements), for the first six 
month period of Project 
execution and, thereafter, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than two (2) months after the end of the 
first six month period of Project execution and, 
thereafter, 
not later than six (6) months after the end of 
each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements 
as 
well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the GSIF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the GSIF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
Page  4
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the GSIF:
Georgian Social Investment Fund
39 (a)  I. Charcharadze Ave.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212348 MOFIN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the GSIF, may 
be taken or executed by the Executive Director or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director shall designate in writing, and the GSIF shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
GEORGIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Page  5
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
 Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Minor Works
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be procured 
under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotations for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract up to $200,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Works estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or less per contract may be 
implemented directly by the Microproject Committee in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.  
Part C:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts under Parts B, C and D of the Project, the proposed procurement plan for the 
Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for works procured in 
accordance with Part B.1; and (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for works procured in 
accordance with Part B.2; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
Page  6
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Parts B and C of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for Parts B, C and D of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for Parts A, B and C of the Project that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  7
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
under Parts A, B and C of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
(a) 
During implementation of the Project, the GSIF shall maintain the PIU 
with adequate staffing under the supervision of a manager whose qualifications and 
experience are acceptable to the Association.
(b)
The GSIF shall ensure that: (i) Microprojects are identified, appraised, 
approved, implemented and evaluated in accordance with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Operational Manual and the applicable Framework Agreement; and (ii) 
the GSIF’s operations shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Operational Manual.
(c)
The GSIF shall not amend or waive any provision of the Operational Manual 
without the prior consent of the Association.
2.
The GSIF shall carry out, biannually during the first year of Project execution 
and, thereafter, annually an independent technical and managerial audit of 
implementation of Parts A, B and C under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
Prior to the GSIF’s approval of any Microproject: (i) estimated to cost more 
than $75,000 equivalent, the GSIF shall furnish to the Association the draft Framework 
Agreement and such other documents and information as the Association may request in 
respect of any such Microproject for the Association’s review and approval; and (ii) 
having an identified negative impact on the environment, the GSIF shall furnish to the 
Association an environmental mitigation plan, acceptable to the Association.
4.
The GSIF shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by October 15, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
Page  8
matter.
