                                  Document of
                               The World Bank

                                                      Report No: ICR0000703




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-30200 IDA-30201)




                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.6 MILLION (US$ 19.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT) +
                      SDR 3.7 MILLION (US$ 5.0 MILLION)

                                      TO

                                  GEORGIA

                                     FOR

      SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND AND SUPPLEMENTAL EMERGENCY
                   EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                 June 27, 2008




Human Development Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 20, 2008)

                              Currency Unit = Lari (GEL)
                                 GEL 1.00 = US$ 0.692
                                US$ 1.00 = GEL 1.444

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CDC                      Community Development Committee
CPS                      Country Partnership Strategy
ECA                      Europe and Central Asia Region
FSU                      Former Soviet Union
GDP                      Dross Domestic Product
GOG                      Government of Georgia
GSIF                     Georgia Social Investment Fund
ICR                      Implementation Completion Report
IDA                      International Development Association
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
KfW                      German Reconstruction Credit Bank
MDFG                     Municipal Development Fund of Georgia
M&E                      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                      Management Information System
MTR                      Mid Term Review
NGO                      Non-Government Organization
PAD                      Project Appraisal Document
PDO                      Project Development Objective
PIU                      Project Implementation Unit
PMU                      Project Management Unit
PPF                      Project Preparation Facility
QAG                      Quality Assurance Group
SDS                      State Department for Statistics
SID                      Social Investment Division
SCEER                    Supplemental Credit for Emergency Earthquake Rehabilitation
USAID                    United States Agency for International Development


           Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
         Country Director: Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
           Sector Director Tamar Manuelyan Atinc
          Sector Manager: Kathy A. Lindert
      Project Team Leader: Aleksandra Posarac
        ICR Team Leader: Richard Florescu

                                                                 Georgia
                                              Social Investment Fund and
                Supplemental Emergency Earthquake Rehabilitation Project




                                                            CONTENTS
Data Sheet

 A. Basic Information ....................................................................................................................i
 B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................................i
 C. Ratings Summary.....................................................................................................................i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................................ii
 E. Bank Staff ...............................................................................................................................ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis...................................................................................................ii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................................vi
 H. Restructuring (if any).............................................................................................................vi
 I. Disbursement Profile..............................................................................................................vi

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...........................................................4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.........................................................................................................7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .....................................................................13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................................14
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................................15
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......................16

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................................18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..............................................................................................19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..............................................................................22
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .........................23
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................................25
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...............................................................34
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................................35
 Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................................42
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................................43

MAP: IBRD 33410

                                        DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information

                                                                           Social Investment Fund
Country:                Georgia                 Project Name:
                                                                           Project (SIF)
Project ID:             P039929                 L/C/TF Number(s):          IDA-30200,IDA-30201
ICR Date:               06/27/2008              ICR Type:                  Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     FIL                     Borrower:
                                                                           GEORGIA
Original Total
                        XDR 14.6M               Disbursed Amount:          XDR 18.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Municipal Development Fund of Georgia
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

      Process              Date             Process          Original Date        Revised / Actual
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:         11/04/1996    Effectiveness:           06/05/1998            06/05/1998
Appraisal:              04/29/1997    Restructuring(s):
                                                               12/10/2000
Approval:               12/11/1997    Mid-term Review:                               12/10/2000
                                                           (this cant be right)
                                      Closing:                 06/30/2002            09/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:                Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:           Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:               Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                   QAG Assessments (if
       Performance                Indicators                  any)                    Rating

Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                            No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
Problem Project at any time Yes                      Quality of Supervision
                                                                            None
(Yes/No):                                            (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       2                  2
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                  22                 23
Health                                                                 23                 10
Other social services                                                  30                 10
Primary education                                                      23                 55


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                               Primary            Primary
Participation and civic engagement                                    Primary            Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                                     Primary            Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                                  Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:             Shigeo Katsu                           Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:           D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                    Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:             Kathy A. Lindert                       Ricardo A. Halperin
Project Team Leader:        Aleksandra Posarac                     Robert Maurer
ICR Team Leader:            Aleksandra Posarac
ICR Primary Author:         Richard Florescu



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
GSIF. The Project#s development objective (PDO), as stated in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), was #to improve access of vulnerable groups to social and economic services



                                                    ii

on a sustainable basis#. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) included this as a primary
project objective to be achieved through the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure where social
returns are highest and where basic services would otherwise be inaccessible to the poor,
particularly in remote mountainous areas. However, the PAD also included secondary
development objectives, as follows: (i) to strengthen the capacity of private, small-scale
contractors so they can benefit directly or indirectly from contracts financed by the GSIF; (ii) to
build the capacity of communities so they can prepare and implement small projects; (iii) to
generate employment by requiring labor-intensive civil works in GSIF-financed micro-projects;
and (iv) to build greater capacity for policy makers to monitor and analyze trends in the level and
structure of poverty in Georgia.

Supplemental Credit for Earthquake Emergency Recovery (SCEER). On April 25, 2002, an
earthquake measuring 4.8 on the Richter scale hit Georgia, with its epicenter in Tbilisi. The
earthquake caused damage to thousands of buildings in Tbilisi, mainly in the older, historic parts
of the city. The overall level of damage to both private and public infrastructures was substantial.
As a result of the significant damages to buildings, including houses and schools, students were
relocated to other less damaged buildings. As classes were held in two or more shifts, many
schools were operating above their normal capacity.

The objective of the Supplemental Credit was to provide funding for the rehabilitation of
educational infrastructure in Tbilisi damaged by the earthquake. This was consistent with the
GSIF PDO. The Supplemental Credit (total estimated costs US$6.2 million) was approved in
March 2003.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Project development objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target        Formally           Actual Value

    Indicator           Baseline Value          Values (from                              Achieved at
                                                   approval            Revised          Completion or
                                                  documents)       Target Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Proportion of micro-project funds devoted to the 10 poorest and least serviced districts
                 in the country
Value
quantitative or  None                        11%                                     17.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    11/01/1997                  06/30/2002                              12/31/2003

Comments         * Date of December 31, 2003 is considered to be the completion date for GSIF activities

(incl. %         other than earthquake support. The improvement in this indicator's performance is that

achievement)     much more impressive considering the difficult political and economic conditions of
                 Georgia during the project

Indicator 2 :    Proportion of micro-projects delivering benefits 2/3/4 years after the investment i.e.
                 measurable improvements in service delivery, quality, and coverage
Value                                        95% generating                          87% (on average)
quantitative or  None                        benefits after 2                        of all projects still



                                                  iii

Qualitative)                                  years; 90%                              generating benefits at
                                              generating benefits                     the closing date**
                                              after 3 years; 85%
                                              generating benefits
                                              after 4 years
Date achieved   11/01/1997                    06/30/2002                              12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %        ** It is noteworthy that this figure is still valid at ICR time (2008), when most of the

achievement)    micro-projects are more than four years old.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target          Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator          Baseline Value             Values (from                            Achieved at
                                                    approval           Revised Target    Completion or
                                                   documents)              Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   22 damaged schools completely rehabilitated under Supplemental Credit
Value
(quantitative   None                          22                                      22
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   04/25/2002                    09/30/2007                              09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved (100%). Physical conditions for teaching and learning in rehabilitated

achievement)    schools significantly improved.

Indicator 2 :   Number of micro-project proposals received (Total) under GSIF
Value
(quantitative   None                           770                                    1,209
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   11/01/1997                    06/30/2002                              12/31/2003
Comments        The demand driven character of GSIF interventions combined with good
(incl. %        outreach/information campaign motivated many communities to submit their proposals
achievement)    (157%)
Indicator 3 :   Average cost per beneficiary for completed micro-projects
Value
(quantitative   None                           US$30                                  US$8.83
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   11/01/1997                    06/30/2002                              12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %        70.6% lower cost per beneficiary. This performance was possible due to the lower

achievement)    average costs of the micro-projects, combined with a high total number of beneficiaries.

Indicator 4 :   Total micro-project funds per capita devoted to rural and mountainous areas
Value
(quantitative   None                           US$5.25                                US$8.55
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   11/01/1997                    06/30/2002                              12/31/2003
Comments        The per-capita costs where 62.8% higher due to higher than expected costs of
(incl. %        transportation of construction materials and workers; also, this was due to lower
achievement)    density of the population in these areas as compared to urban areas.



                                                    iv

Indicator 5 :   Average size of community contribution (%), by years of project life
Value
(quantitative   None                          [16/16/18/20]                        20.2% (Total

or Qualitative)                                                                    average)

Date achieved   11/01/1997                    06/30/2002                           12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 6 :   Proportion of contracts with change orders exceeding 20% of contract price , by years
                of project life
Value
(quantitative   None                          [15/15/10/10]                        [3.6/0/0/0]
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   11/01/1997                    06/30/2002                           12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %        This performance indicates good project preparation and realistic technical designs.
achievement)

Indicator 7 :   Average difference between contract price and final micro-project price (%), by year of
                project life
Value
(quantitative   None                          [15/15/10/10]                        [5.7/7.0/5.7/7.3/4.1]
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   11/01/1997                    06/30/2002                           12/31/2003
Comments        Tight supervision of the rehabilitation works, backed up by improved financial
(incl. %        discipline of the contractors, contributed to the performance of having lower average
achievement)    cost differences [38% / 46.6% / 57% / 73%] compare with the initial estimates.

Indicator 8 :   Proportion of micro-projects with positive or neutral environment impact (%),by year of
                project life
Value
(quantitative   None                          [95/97/99/100]                       100/100/100/100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   11/01/1997                    06/30/2002                           12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved [105.2% / 103.1% / 101% / 100%].
achievement)
Indicator 9 :   Number of employees working days generated
Value
(quantitative   None                           494,000                             577,292
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   11/01/1997                    06/30/2002                           12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %        116.8%. Improved access to formal employment is even more important, considering

achievement)    the high level of unemployment faced by Georgia, during the project implementation.

Indicator 10 :  Number of micro-projects completed under GSIF
Value
(quantitative   None                           350                                 375
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   11/01/1997                    06/30/2002                           12/31/2003



                                                    v

Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved (107.1% of target).
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


 No.     Date ISR                                                    Actual Disbursements
         Archived                 DO                      IP            (USD millions)
   1    03/24/1998            Satisfactory            Satisfactory               0.00
   2    01/19/1999            Satisfactory            Satisfactory               2.05
   3    06/30/1999            Satisfactory            Satisfactory               2.84
   4    12/10/1999            Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory              4.63
   5    06/28/2000           Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory              6.92
   6    12/28/2000            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              10.63
   7    06/28/2001            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              14.49
   8    12/26/2001            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              17.23
   9    06/03/2002            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              17.95
  10    12/26/2002            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              18.93
  11    06/23/2003            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              19.12
  12    12/29/2003            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              19.52
  13    04/14/2004            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              19.76
  14    10/18/2004            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              21.03
  15    03/30/2005            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              22.67
  16    06/09/2005            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              22.67
  17    06/07/2006            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              24.37
  18    05/29/2007            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              24.59

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                                                 vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Following its independence from the Former Soviet Union (FSU) on April 9, 1991, Georgia was marked
by internal armed conflicts, fuelled by the separatist movements in South Ossetia and Abhazia, and
compounded by a brief civil war. Although these conflicts abated by the end of 1993, they had serious
economic and social repercussions. At that time, Georgia featured a collapsed economy (GDP dropping
to 30 percent of its 1990 level), a sharp decrease in government revenues (to 2 percent of GDP in 1993
from 30 percent in 1991) as well as hyperinflation and sharp depreciation of the domestic currency. This
had significant negative social impacts on the population: real wages falling by 90 percent and health,
education and poverty indicators worsening as a result of the sharp cuts in public spending.

The launch in mid-1994 of a comprehensive reform program, with the support of the World Bank and the
IMF, allowed a remarkable turnaround, so that by the end of 1996, the fiscal deficit had been reduced to
5.5 percent of the GDP, annual inflation stood at 14 percent, the exchange rate was stable, and the
economy registered 10.5 percent growth rate.

In spite of the above mentioned achievements and of the early reforms launched in the social sectors,
poverty remained widespread and access to social services continued to be poor. The Soviet legacy of
underinvestment in infrastructure followed by the damages caused by the armed conflicts and subsequent
years of disinvestment and lack of maintenance since independence, resulted in serious dilapidation of
infrastructure, with many facilities becoming unsafe and unusable. Access of the poor to quality social
services was seriously hampered by the depleted health and education infrastructure while the overall
living standards were also affected by the poor provision of public services. This was exacerbated by the
institutional weaknesses of the local governments, the loose legal frameworks and the lack of trust
between the local governments and their constituents. The 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Georgia, acknowledged these realities and identified programs to address them. The Georgia Social
Investment Fund (GSIF) project was prepared to help address some of these deficiencies by improving
access to sustainable small-scale basic social and economic infrastructure at the level of vulnerable
communities, and to help improve non-income aspects of poverty. The project was also supposed to
establish quick and efficient mechanisms to rehabilitate infrastructure, generating both community and
Government support. This was to be achieved by ensuring the participation of community members in
the identification, implementation and supervision of micro-projects across a variety of sectors (i.e. health,
water sanitation, etc). Strategically, the GSIF project was included in the high case scenario, and it was
consistent with two of the core CAS objectives: (i) poverty reduction by protecting human capital and
building up labor force skills; and (ii) fostering the development of the private sector while growth
recovered and additional public and private resources and capacity were developed.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

Georgia Social Investment Fund (GSIF) Project

The primary project development objective was to improve access of vulnerable groups, particularly those
in remote areas, to social and economic services on a sustainable basis. The GSIF was established to
meet this objective by mobilizing public and private resources and by channeling these resources through
small investments (micro-projects) that were likely to generate sustainable benefits. These investments
would finance the rehabilitation of existing social and economic infrastructures. In addition, the project



                                                    1

had a secondary set of objectives, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), as follows: (i) to
strengthen the capacity of private, small-scale contractors to allow them to benefit directly or indirectly
from contracts financed by the GSIF; (ii) to build the capacity of communities to allow them to prepare
and implement small projects; (iii) to generate employment by requiring labor-intensive civil works in
GSIF-financed micro-projects; and (iv) to build greater capacity for policy makers to monitor and analyze
trends at the level and in the structure of poverty in Georgia.

Supplemental Credit for Emergency Earthquake Rehabilitation (SCEER). The objective of the
Supplemental Credit (approved in March 2003) was consistent with the GSIF PDO, and supported the
rehabilitation of 22 schools in Tbilisi damaged by the April 25, 2002 earthquake.

Key Project Outcome Indicators, as originally approved, were as follows:

For GSIF: (i) proportion of micro-project funds devoted to poorest and least-serviced areas, and (ii)
proportion of micro-projects generating benefits two, three and four years after the investment. In
addition, an extensive list of output indicators was included in the PAD, of which a set of the most
relevant indicators were selected and included in this ICR (Results Framework Analysis section of the
Datasheet). The SCEER had one intermediate outcome indicator: 22 schools rehabilitated.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The project development objective was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The GSIF main beneficiaries were intended to be people living in poor and remote communities (almost
400 communities) which lacked access to basic social and economic services. Priority was envisaged to
be given to villages located in the mountainous areas that were historically neglected in terms of
infrastructure development and to communities ranked among the poorest and most in need of
infrastructure. This target group was complemented through the SCEER with a second main target group
consisting of students and teachers enrolled from the primary and secondary education system in Tbilisi
area, whose schools had been damaged by the April 25, 2002, earthquake.

Additionally, other groups were supposed to benefit, directly or indirectly, from the implementation of the
project, such as: (i) small private contactors participating in the competitive bidding and delivery of
infrastructure works; (ii) families of workers employed by the companies awarded with the contracts of
works; and (iii) local government representatives, as members of micro-project committees, getting
practical experience in competitive procurement, works supervision, budgeting and financial management.

1.5 Original Components

The GSIF Project consisted of four components as follows:

Component I: Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructure (estimated base costs US$24.8 million).
This component was to support the implementation of 350 micro-projects in poor and remote areas, using
as much as possible the local contractors, suppliers and workers. The micro-projects to be financed by
the GSIF were to improve the basic infrastructure for water supply, sanitation, solid waste management,
and rehabilitating the local clinics, primary schools and feeder roads. Priority was to be given to the
micro-projects:    (i)  promoting     community      participation in  micro-project   identification  and


                                                       2

implementation; (ii) incorporating cost sharing by communities and regional/local governments; and (iii)
integrating plans for facility operation and maintenance.

Component II: Institutional Support for GSIF (estimated base costs US$1.7 million). This
component aimed to support the GSIF through the provision of equipment, vehicles, operating costs
(salaries included), training, technical assistance, and financing for monitoring and evaluation of
implementing activities (including the support for the maintenance of the Management Information
System, designed during the pilot phase). Yearly beneficiary assessments were supposed to be undertaken
to ascertain the impact of GSIF-financed micro-projects on communities.

Component III: Support to Small Contractors and Communities (estimated base costs US$0.3
million). The purpose of this component was to provide GSIF with additional resources to its operating
budget to deliver technical managerial and organizational support to small contractors and communities.
The purpose was to enhance their capacity to perform functions related to the micro-projects (where they
were these contractors were involved). Small business contractors were supposed to get acquainted with
the competitive procurement procedures, while the communities had to prepare, monitor and supervise
the micro-project activities.

Component IV: Support for Monitoring of Living Conditions (estimated base costs US$0.3 million).
This component was to provide limited financial support to the State Department of Statistics in order to
conduct living standards monitoring surveys whose results were supposed to (i) enable detailed analysis
of poverty levels and trends and a better understanding of the country's poverty profiles; and (ii) be used
in refining the district-by-district targeting map and identifying and monitoring the new or remaining
pockets of vulnerability.

1.6 Revised Components

The scope and scale of the GSIF project components were amended with the approval (in 2003) of the
SCEER which provided additional financial support (US$5.0 million) for the rehabilitation of Tbilisi
schools damaged by the 2002 earthquake. The Government also agreed to provide an additional US$1.2
million in support of the SCEER. The SCEER included support for the first two project components, as
follows: under Component I: Rehabilitation of 22 Schools (US$5.31 million, of which IDA credit
US$4.25 million) and Component II: Provision of Institutional Support for GSIF (US$0.89 million, of
which IDA credit US$0.75 million).

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

As a result of the SCEER, the GSIF project Closing Date was extended from June 30, 2002 until
December 31, 2003. However, during the SCEER implementation, the project Closing Date was revised
three times, as follows: (i) August 31, 2005; (ii) August 31, 2006; and (iii) September 30, 2007. These
closing date extensions were mainly caused by the major political upheaval associated with the Rose
Revolution in late 2003 as well as unforeseen technical difficulties which had to be addressed under the
new construction regulations which were introduced in Georgia, as well as by issues related to the quality
of construction work in the country.




                                                     3

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project structure was kept simple with four components, with most of the project funds being directed
to the first component (88%), supporting the physical rehabilitation of social service facilities and public
utilities infrastructure in the poor and remote areas. The other three project components were designed to
support the proper implementation of the first component, including complementary activities that helped
the development and enhancement of the participatory process, enabled the proper identification of the
target communities, and contributed to the development of the private sector within a competitive
environment.

The project preparation phase benefited from the activities of a one year Pilot Phase financed by the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and by the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF). In the absence of a QAG review of quality at entry, the assessment of the project preparation is
mainly based on the way in which the lessons learned from the above mentioned Pilot Phase and from the
earlier Bank interventions, were reflected in the project design.

Lessons Learned from the GSIF Pilot Phase. During this phase, thirteen micro-projects were
implemented, three in Tbilisi and ten in several of the poorest districts of Southern Georgia and other pilot
regions. The implementation of the pilot activities revealed several aspects that were carefully considered
in the project design, including:

          (i) the communities' interest of being involved in the needs evaluation, selection and
          implementation of small infrastructure micro-projects, as well as the willingness to bring their
          own contribution (cash or in-kind) to the overall support provided by the GSIF. This lesson was
          reflected in the participatory approach of the entire micro-project cycle (preparation, selection,
          implementation, maintenance) as well as in the co-financing requirements.

          (ii) the sustainability of interventions was identified as a challenge during the Pilot Phase, and as
          a result, the requirement to assess the micro-projects' sustainability plans in the appraisal phase
          was included in the final Project Operational Manual. To address this challenge, the beneficiary
          communities were provided with technical assistance under the second component of the project.

          (iii) the demand for infrastructure civil works generated by the Pilot Phase had a positive impact
          on the emerging small private contractors sector, even in remote regions. However, it also
          became apparent that small contractors and the communities needed training and technical
          support in order to allow them to familiarize with competitive bidding procedures, to prepare
          good quality proposals to properly implement the micro-projects related activities, and to develop
          and apply proper coordination mechanisms. This need was addressed by the inclusion of the third
          component in the project.

Lessons Learned from earlier Bank-financed projects in Georgia showed inter-alia that: (i) simple
and small scale projects were more successful, and (ii) there was a need for emphasis on capacity building
as a pre-requisite for the mitigation of the risks arising from the collaboration with inexperienced project
counterparts. As a result, intensive support and assistance was included in the project for a wide range of




                                                        4

beneficiaries.   Also, requirements for small scale micro-projects were incorporated in the Project
Operation Manual.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)
The GSIF was coordinated by an Executive Board composed of high ranking government officials and
non-government representatives, whose main responsibility was to provide policy guidance and to
approve major decisions.      A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by an Executive Director
reporting to the Executive Board, was responsible for the overall project implementation. Beginning with
2006, GSIF was integrated in the Municipal Development Fund of Georgia (MDFG), and the PIU became
a division (Social Investment Division) inside the MDFG.

For the most part, the implementation of the project was satisfactory. However, in 1999 and 2000, the
implementation was hampered by the lack of adequate counterpart funds from both form the central
government and from communities. This was at a when the country experienced a particularly severe
fiscal decline wages and pensions not being paid for months. The shortage of counterpart funds adversely
impacted the implementation of the GSIF project, by delaying tender announcements, contracts (causing
work stoppages) and payments for operational services. Also, the lack of counterpart funds tended to
shift the targeting approach, for a limited period of time, from the very poor communities to less poor
communities that had more resources to meet the counterpart financing requirement, in order to continue
the project implementation.

It is important to note that during this troubled time, when the central Government was having difficulties
in meeting its obligations to its citizens, the GSIF continued to serve as a critical support mechanism that
provided small amounts of funds to maintain services where they were needed most.

The Mid-Term Review (MTR), carried out in December 2000, revealed the tendency of targeting the
less poor communities and elevated the issue to the highest levels of decision making in the Ministry of
Finance. At that time, it was agreed that for the remaining micro-projects, efforts needed to be refocused
to the very poor communities which now had to contribute a small percentage (8%) of the total micro-
project cost, compared to the 16% originally envisaged.

Additionally, the MTR identified several other issues that needed to be addressed in order to fully meet
the project development objectives, such as: (i) weak performance of the Institutional Support Unit (ISU);
(ii) limited capacity building results for small contractors and communities; and (iii) poor quality of
works in some micro-projects.           In order to overcome these issues, the MTR made several
recommendations covering improvement of procedures and development of adequate staffing and training
plans, which were implemented, as agreed, by May 2001. Following the MTR, the implementation of the
original GSIF project was back on track and it was successfully completed in December 2003
notwithstanding the overall deterioration in the fiscal situation for the country overall.

The SCEER implementation was generally satisfactory in spite of the unexpected implementation
difficulties encountered for which three Closing Date extensions were granted, as noted above. The main
implementation problems for the SCEER arose from the poor quality of the works and materials used for
the construction of the initial buildings. Also, some of the initial technical designs failed to take into
consideration all the relevant constraints (e.g. geological). This could not have been identified at the
preparation stage due to the fast preparation period of the SCEER, and most importantly, because
preparation took place prior to Georgia's adoption of the new building standards. In order to comply with
the country's new standards of quality and safety in constructions, feasibility studies had to be conducted
and additional work to be carried out during the implementation of the SCEER.


                                                       5

The social unrest and tense political events culminating with the Rose Revolution in November 2003, led
to a change in Government and to the launch of an ambitious reform program. But the above mentioned
political turmoil, contributed also to delaying the pace of the project implementation, without hampering
ultimate implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization.

Design: Besides the two main PDO performance outcome indicators, the project included a large number
of performance output indicators which were to be used for monitoring project implementation and
performance. During the project implementation, the supervision missions (including the MTR) revealed
that the list of output indicators was overly complex and recommended to use indicators most relevant for
assessing the PDOs. The final list of indicators which were monitored is included in this ICR (Results
Framework Analysis). The combination of the above mentioned sets of indicators resulted in a good tool
for measuring the PDOs in terms of coverage/targeting and sustainability.

Implementation and Utilization: The M&E was based on a fairly complex management information
system (MIS) developed during the Pilot Phase and complemented by the implementing agency during
the overall project implementation phase. The MIS incorporated data resulting from the day to day
implementation reports, periodical reports, supervision missions and external evaluations. The MIS
comprised five main modules: resource targeting, micro-project portfolio, compound prices, micro-
project budgeting and micro-project follow-up. Links with the accounting system were created as well.
In addition, auxiliary database on supervisors, contractors, micro-project committees and NGOs were
maintained. The physical inspections on the project sites revealed proper utilization of the project funds
and of the goods, works and services financed.

GSIF opened and maintains a Web Page (www.mdf.org.ge) which is an important information
dissemination tool in its public information campaign where relevant information is presented. Thus,
transparent information is available for the competitive selection of the micro-projects, as well as
information related to each of the selected micro-projects at any stage of their implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Given the relatively small size of civil works and the rehabilitation nature of most community
infrastructure projects, there were no environmental issues during project implementation. Moreover,
taking into account that almost one third of the micro-projects were related to the rehabilitation of
irrigations, sanitation (sewerage) and water supply facilities (clean water), the environment impact was
rather positive. As indicated by the intermediate indicator [Intermediate Outcome indicator (IO) 8], all
the micro-projects had a neutral or positive environment impact. The social safeguards were not triggered,
since there was no need for land acquisition and resettlement under the sub-projects.

There were no significant issues related to the procurement since the procedures used were quite simple
and the GSIF developed a good procurement capacity.

The GSIF succeeded to develop a suitable financial management capacity, also confirmed by the fact that
all the project audits have been unqualified. The project financial management reports were produced and
submitted regularly to the Bank, and found acceptable.




                                                     6

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

During the implementation of the GSIF, even at the MTR stage, an increasing demand for more
investments in small infrastructure in poor communities was identified and discussions for a follow-up
phase were initiated. As a result, the approval of the GSIF2 in 2003, was regarded as a natural
continuation of the GSIF project. Several achievements of the first phase supported the successful
transition to the second phase (e.g. institutional capacity of the implementing agency, implementation
procedures, sustainability pre-requisites, and community social capital building) and are detailed below:

The follow-on project was implemented by the same PIU that coordinated the implementation of the
GSIF and SCEER. Later on, the PIU was incorporated in the Municipal Development Fund of Georgia
under the name of Social Investment Division ­ SID. Thus, the institutional capacity built during the first
phase proved to be extremely useful for the implementation of the second phase. The procedures and
processes developed for the purpose of the GSIF project were used under the GSIF 2 (with the additional
improvements deriving from the lessons learned under the GSIF project).

The competitive selection of the micro-projects, included inter-alia, mandatory criteria related to the
maintenance of the rehabilitated infrastructure in the post completion period. Thus, signed commitments
of the local authorities as well as operations and maintenance plans were provided. Also, mechanisms of
cost recovery and other forms of community in-kind contribution aimed at ensuring adequate
sustainability, were considered, particularly for the water supply and sanitation micro-projects. Among
the measures mentioned above, the cost recovery measures were not so easily accepted given the high
poverty incidence in some specific areas. However, the field visits made during the project supervision
and during the ICR mission revealed fairly adequate maintenance during the post completion period, even
three, four yeas after the completion.

The consultative processes developed under the GSIF project, although difficult to be undertaken at the
very beginning, became a natural way of taking decisions in the interest of the community, which led to
the human capital development and for ensuring sustainability of investments.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project objectives were clear and valid for the entire project life and continue to be relevant to the
country's social and economic development of today. These objectives, as well as the project design
responded adequately to the typical conditions of post conflict countries and emergency situations (crisis
of various natures).

The CAS for Georgia, dated September 1997, identified two of its core objectives: (i) poverty reduction
by protecting human capital and building-up labor force skills; and (ii) fostering the development of the
private sector, for which the GSIF PDOs were relevant at the project preparation time.




                                                     7

During the project's implementation, the country faced severe economic distortions and financial crisis.
In the mist of this troubled time, the GSIF was one of the very few instruments that provided small
amounts of funds to maintain the provision of social services in poor and remote areas.

Although economic growth was resumed beginning with 2001, the fiscal and governance situation
deteriorated and overall poverty rates continued to be high (close to 30% in 2007, with significantly
greater incidence in the rural areas and secondary cities). Improving community and social services
remains an important challenge and the infrastructure still suffers from the chronic lack of investments
from previous decades. The SIF proved an effective mechanism to address this.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)

Overall rating for outcomes: satisfactory.

The project development objective - to improve access to vulnerable groups to social and economic
services on a sustainable basis - is measured by two PDO outcome indicators as well as by two
intermediate outcome indicator (IO 1 and 10). Together, these assess the main elements of the PDO
(coverage of vulnerable groups, access and sustainability). In addition, the ICR assesses overall project
achievements against the secondary project objectives identified in the PAD, taking into account other
relevant indicators monitored by the project, particularly those related to project beneficiaries, social
capital, gender and employment.

The project primary PDO is assessed by the outcome indicator 1, Intermediate outcome indicators 1 and
10, and PDO outcome indicator 2, as follows:

Targeting the vulnerable groups [PDO indicator 1]. The efforts of identifying micro-projects in
heavily underserved, remote and poor areas paid off, and, in the end, the original target (of 11%) for the
proportion of funds devoted to the 10 poorest and least serviced districts was exceeded, reaching the level
of 17.6% over the life of the project.

Improved Access [IO indicators 1 and 10]. The completion of the 375 micro-projects under the GSIF
project allowed improved access to social services (health, education, social assistance), public utilities
(water supply, sanitation, electricity and gas supply, communications) and community small infrastructure
(roads, bridges micro-dams, irrigations) in 77 districts.

For the social services, the improvement is mainly related to the better quality of the services provided to
almost the same number of beneficiaries, following the rehabilitation woks of the existing facilities. Thus
rehabilitated schools could provide safe and proper conditions for the delivery of education programs, as
well as the medical units (dispensaries) for the provision of health services. As far as the public utilities
(water supply, sanitation, gas pipes, electricity) and community infrastructure (roads, bridges) are
concerned, the improvement is also quantitative, since the micro-projects implemented led to the creation
of many new facilities and hence to an increase in the number of beneficiaries. The GORBI's Beneficiary
Survey (Annex 5) reveals a great level of satisfaction among the interviewed community members.
Eighty nine percent of them considered that the micro-projects implemented met the most critical needs
of their communities.

On aggregate, almost 2.4 million people (compared with 1 million initially estimated) benefited from the
results of these investments (Annex 2 of the ICR presents a detailed list with the completed micro-


                                                      8

projects, their typology, number of beneficiaries, average costs and other related information). In addition,
rhe rehabilitation of the 22 secondary schools damaged by the earthquake in Tbilisi under the SCEER
allowed the delivery of education programs in decent and safe conditions, with more that 18,188 pupils
and 1,885 teaching staff benefiting from these investments [IO indicator 1].

Sustainability [PDO indicator 2]. Usually, the sustainability is an area of concern in the social
investment funds, and GSIF project was assessed several times from this angle during its implementation.
The results and the recommendations of the impact assessments and social studies conducted in 2000,
2001 and 2003, have been adequately used in the continuous improvement of the implementation
procedures under GSIF.        Thus, the PDO indicator regarding the proportion of the micro-projects
generating benefits in post-investment phase was met as well with an average of 87% of all projects still
generating benefits at the project completion date (more than four years of life for many of them).

In order to evaluate the sustainability of the micro-projects in the post completion period in 2003, the
GSIF commissioned a study that developed a methodology and conducted a sustainability assessment
targeting several water/sanitation and educational micro-projects in selected districts. The developed
methodology was quite complex, taking into account nine basic factors among which we can randomly
mention: (i) the willingness of the community to contribute to the maintenance with financial resources,
labor or transportation; (ii) the staffing in terms of number and qualification; (iii) the existence of the
financial factors; (iv) the compliance with exploitation standards, or (v) the assignment of responsibility
for the maintenance of the facilities. The study showed that, for some water/sanitation type of micro-
projects, the sustainability was hampered by the non-payment of the user fees and recommended that
more emphasis be put on the establishment and pro-activity of the community users associations.

In some cases, the capacity of the developed/rehabilitated infrastructure exceeded the needs of the
community, leading to higher unit costs for maintenance. Although the average cost of the micro-projects
(US$52,500 equivalent) was smaller than the initial estimates of US$60,000, for some poorer
communities it proved to be too much.

The field visits carried out as part of the preparation of this ICR demonstrated that the facilities
refurbished are well maintained and are providing the intended services to their beneficiaries in good
conditions. Also, the recent policy developments such as the introduction of the per-capita financing
formula in education, or the increased autonomy of the family doctors practice in health, provide a legal
framework conducive to a more effective securing of financial resources needed to ensure medium and
long term sustainability.

The autonomy of schools where the parents are represented in the boards, associated with the per-capita
financing formula (beginning with 2005) allowed for both increased revenues and better management of
resources directing them towards the priorities jointly (parents and school management) established
including maintenance of the infrastructure (Tbilisi school #24 rehabilitated under the SCEER).

The provision of the primary care health services by the family doctors in a semi-private setting
(beginning with 2001) created an environment that stimulated the initiative and the creativity for
developing activities that could generate additional revenues and support both maintenance and further
new developments. A relevant example is the development and provision of training programs for family
doctors and nurses by the Policlinic # 9 in Tbilisi, which became a reference training center as well.

The Project's secondary development objectives mentioned in the PAD were to: (i) strengthen the
capacity of private small-scale contractors; (ii) build capacity of communities to prepare and implement
small projects; (iii) generate employment by implementing labor intensive civil works micro-projects, and
(iv) build greater capacity for policy makers to monitor and analyze the poverty profiles in Georgia.


                                                      9

(i) strengthen the capacity of private small-scale contractors. 375 small civil works contracts were
carried out under the GSIF, a number that exceeded the initial estimates of 350 contracts. The contractors
learned from the training provided, from the experience of the competitive procurement, as well as from
the works they carried out under qualified supervision. This led to improvements in the financial
discipline as evidenced by a much smaller average difference between final contract price and initial price
than the original targets: final 4.1% compared with initial 10% for the fourth year of the project
implementation [IO 7]. Also, there was no contract in the last three years of project life to exceed the
initial contract price by more that 20% [IO 6].

(ii) build capacity of communities to prepare and implement small projects. The achievement of this
objective is confirmed by the 375 micro-projects actually implemented [IO 10]. Also, the high number of
proposals (1,209), out of which most of them were eligible, reflects a high interest and good capacity of
preparing projects [IO 2]. Only a portion of the original proposals were financed by the GSIF; many of
them were later financed by the follow-on GSIF2 project.

Important gains were obtained in the area of social capital building as well. By their nature, social
development funds contribute to the building of the social capital. At the beginning of the GSIF 1, the
social capital concept was a poorly defined concept and essentially it did not exist. This was the legacy of
the past lengthy Soviet experience, which eroded the community members' trust in local and central
authorities and civic organizations. The participatory process promoted by the GSIF in a bottom up
approach for the entire micro-project cycle, from the local needs assessment to the final acceptance of the
works, contributed to significant changes in the attitude and social sentiments of the community members
who became more responsible for their destiny. If, in the beginning, there was a general social feeling
that local and central authorities should be responsible for any kind of community developments, later on,
this attitude changed, as the micro-project cycle advanced and tangible results could be seen, and people
became more interested to participate in the community decision making process, and to support the
implementation of micro-projects.       Over the entire project life, 23,385 people participated in the
community meetings, women being quite visible, with more than 40% participation.                   Also, the
community participation in the micro-project financing (20.2%) actually exceeded the initial estimates of
16% despite initial problems of counterpart fund challenges [IO 5]. The GORBI's Beneficiary Survey,
revealed also a high perception of community participation to the meetings at which the projects were
selected (64% of the interviewed ones).

The Social Impact Studies conducted in 2000 and 2003, in selected regions covering a wide range of
micro-project typologies, confirmed the first positive signs of social capital building, although the overall
feeling of the researchers was that much remained to be done at the community levels. This was valid
especially in the post completion phase when additional resources for adequate functioning and
maintenance had to be secured to ensure sustainability.            The result of these studies and their
recommendations were taken into account in the design of the GSIF 2 project.

(iii) generate employment by implementing labor intensive civil works micro-projects. The contracts
implemented under GSIF/SCEER supported 17,494 jobs out of which 14,818 jobs were temporary and
2,676 jobs were permanent, leading to a total of 577,292 employees labor days, which again exceeded the
initial estimates (494,000) [IO 9]. The results are even more valuable since they were obtained in periods
of time when the country suffered from severe economic contractions and the unemployment was
extremely high.

(iv) build greater capacity for policy makers to monitor and analyze the poverty profiles. The
technical support provided under the project to the State Department of Statistics (SDS) of Georgia,
enabled the institution to (i) improve the existing statistical instruments; (ii) develop poverty evaluation


                                                     10

methodology, and (iii) conduct comprehensive assessments of the population's living conditions and
poverty. The 2002 SDS report on Poverty Monitoring in Georgia provided various poverty lines for the
period 1996 ­ 2001, based on the developed methodology that considered mainly three criteria: food
consumption, access to education and access to health services, and used data from the household surveys
conducted regularly. Regular household surveys continued to be conducted.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

As in most of the social development fund projects, it is difficult to provide an overall project economic
and financial analysis because of the difficulty of quantifying the benefits in the absence of the necessary
data. Even if the data regarding the unit costs are available, as in the case of the GSIF, the relevance of
comparison is not that meaningful due to the diversity of micro-project types and the local conditions
where they are implemented.

While it was not feasible to calculate the Economic Rate of Return of micro-projects, the assessment of
the unit costs of micro-projects reveals that the actual average cost per beneficiary (US$ 8.83) was much
lower than anticipated (US$30) [IO 3], as a result of the higher final number of beneficiaries: 2.4 million,
compared with roughly 1 million initially estimated. At the same time, the final average micro-project
cost (US$52,418) was lower that the initially estimated one (US$ 60,000). However, it must be noted that
the average micro-project costs per capita spent in rural and mountainous areas [IO 4] turned out to be
higher (US$8.55) than the initial estimate of (US$5.25) due to the high costs related to the transportation
of construction materials and workers, as well as to the smaller number of beneficiaries of the projects
implemented in remote and high altitude areas.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

As documented above, the GSIF has achieved its PDO, by: (i) completing 375 micro-projects which
provided improved access - both in quantitative and qualitative terms - to social and economic services
for more that 2.4 million people; (ii) directing significant project funds to poor communities (17.6%
compared with the initial target of 11%); and (iii) ensuring adequate sustainability (87% compared with
the initial target of 85%). The SCEER fully achieved the intermediary objective by completing the
rehabilitation of the 22 schools, as initially agreed. Also, several secondary indicators such as: the
number of micro-projects, the overall community and gender participation, the unit costs, the employment
support or number of beneficiaries - were met as documented above. It is important to point out that these
accomplishments were realized despite considerable difficulties (financial, political or social) which the
country faced during the project implementation. In light of the difficult implementation context and
considering that the project objectives and design remain relevant to the country's context as well as the
effective and efficient manner in which the project was implemented, the overall outcome is rated as
satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)




                                                     11

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Reduction. The poverty estimates based on the annual national Household Surveys, have
indicated little change in the poverty index in Georgia in the years leading up to the Rose Revolution,
maintaining it around 50 percent. However during the recent years the poverty started declining at a slow
pace, going towards the level of 30 percent. As a cross-check, IDA and the Ministry of Health, Labor and
Social Protection conducted a Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) in late Fall 2007, whose
preliminary estimates suggest a lower overall poverty incidence, particularly among urban population.

The impact of the project on poverty reduction can be most strongly felt, however, on the non-income
dimensions of poverty, particularly access to education and health services. 213 out of the total of 375
micro-projects financed under GSFI covered education and health facilities mostly in poor rural areas, it
can be considered that the project had a positive impact on poverty reduction. During the project life, the
overall fiscal situation of the country was a severe constraint to providing these services and without this
project, such services and facilities would surely have deteriorated significantly.

Gender. Out of the total of 23,385 people who participated in more than 1,000 community meetings held
over the entire project life, an average of more than 40% were women. In rural and poor areas, the
women were even better represented.

Social Development. The involvement of the beneficiaries in the entire micro-project cycle which
allowed a bottom-up approach in the identification of needs, the preparation of the proposals and the
implementation of the micro-projects, led to significant results in the social capital building process,
enabled a strong social cohesion at the community level and gave real ownership of the communities over
the micro-projects implemented. These features of social development were hardly acknowledged or did
not really exist before the GSIF project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project led to visible institutional development impact, both at local and central levels.

At local level, the consultative and participatory approaches used during the entire micro-project cycle
allowed the local administration structures to develop the ability to work in partnership with other
stakeholders, and to gain their trust. The technical assistance provided at the micro-project sites helped
the local administration institutions to develop capacity to identify and prioritize the community needs,
prepare and implement projects and follow-up to ensure sustainability.

At central level, the institutional capacity developed for the State Department of Statistics (SDS), enabled
it to conduct household surveys and to produce reliable poverty evaluations. However, a challenge which
the SDS still faces is the possibility of losing staff that have been trained under the project and who
acquired good technical skills, due to the continuous staff turnover in the Government agencies.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

One main unintended outcome of the GSIF project was that in 2006, GSIF was integrated into the
Municipal Development Fund of Georgia, thereby ensuring the sustainability of GSIF activities beyond
the GSIF1 and 2 projects. It also insured a single unified approach to providing services and capacity
building at the local level.




                                                     12

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

The impact assessment conducted by the Georgian Opinion Research Business International (GORBI) in
2003, states that GSIF has significantly assisted target communities in restoring infrastructure. All the
surveyed communities reacted positively to assistance, even in cases when the micro-projects had not
become fully operational, or were only partially operational. Community members emphasized that
"without the assistance of GSIF they would have never achieved this by themselves." The study also
revealed that all surveyed GSIF micro-projects were carried out according to the established "acceptance
and delivery" procedure (primary and final), which signifies that they were accomplished in a timely and
high quality manner.

Ninety three percent of the interviewed members of the local community believe that the projects
completed within their community had been a success (73% thought they were very successful, 20% -
successful). Also, 89% said that the project met the most critical needs of the community and that the
project benefited the social group for which it was intended (i.e. water supply system ­ by rural
population, school ­ by teachers and students, hospital ­ by personnel and patients). In addition, 93% of
the interviewees said that they themselves had directly benefited from the projects; 64% of interviewees
said that the community had participated in selecting the project, and the same number said that they had
attended the community meeting at which the project was selected. Only 16 out of 305 interviewees
stated that they had not participated in the community meeting because they had either not known about it
or they had decided that their participation was not necessary.

The weaknesses found by the impact assessment were mostly related to less effective participation and
performance of maintenance in some of the beneficiary communities. Most of the reasons for the lack of
maintenance by some communities were of a psychological nature, arising from community mentality
(responsibility vs. passiveness). Certain social factors have been reinforced over time and have become
habit. It was commonly believed that the government had to take care of general construction and
maintenance issues and that this was not the public's responsibility.

Detailed findings and recommendations of the Impact Assessment can be found in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

As mentioned above, the three main PDOs were achieved, and the short term sustainability is ensured for
most types of project investments. The content of the training programs delivered to the micro-project
committees and representatives of the local administration enabled them to prepare maintenance plans
and adequately budget the related post completion activities. Further the GSIF was continued in GSIF II
and the institutional mechanism was made more sustainable by merging this function with the Municipal
Development Fund.

However, the medium and long term sustainability depends much on the continued responsible
engagement of the communities and local administration. It also depends on the country's overall
macroeconomic performance, which currently is robust, but can still be vulnerable to internal and external
economic and political shocks.




                                                     13

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

The project was prepared based on the experience of an earlier USAID financed pilot and the PPF, both
of which revealed useful lessons that were incorporated into the project design, thus ensuring good quality
at entry. At the design phase, significant attention was paid to the technical aspects of the infrastructure
rehabilitation but less so on the community engagement. This was for the most part due to the fact that
the Bank team which prepared the project with the Government was from the Bank's infrastructure sector,
focusing mainly on construction and rehabilitation of dilapidated facilities. Once the responsibility for
project supervision shifted to the Bank's Human Development sector, the emphasis of the project also
shifted gradually towards greater community mobilization and participation. In the end, a good Bank
cross-sector collaboration was achieved with beneficial results for the final project outcomes based on the
combination of the elements specific to each of the above two mentioned sectors involved.

It should be noted that the Bank team was also quite responsive to the urgent request from Government of
Georgia to support the rehabilitation of the Tbilisi schools damaged by the April 2002 earthquake. The
additional financing (SCEER) was prepared and approved within six months of the original request.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the Bank devoted adequate resources for the implementation phase of the project. The Bank
team carried out regular supervision missions and the MTR was professionally conducted with a high
degree of responsibility and comprehensiveness, alerting the Government and the implementing agency
on the bottlenecks and facilitating timely remedies. The frequent field visits made by the Bank's
supervision teams allowed for good interaction with the community members, local authorities
representatives, contractors and NGOs, and furthered the team's understanding about key project
implementation issues.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during both project preparation and implementation phases, the overall
Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory




                                                    14

Despite the hardships caused by the social and political turmoil that affected the country during the GSIF
/SCEER project, and the severe economic and financial crisis, the Government remained committed to
project objectives and ensured smooth implementation. As noted earlier, the lack of timely provision of
counterpart funds during the years 1999-2000 (both at central and community levels) did slow down
project implementation for a short period. However, following the Mid-Term Review this problem never
arose again.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

In the early phase of the project life, the performance of the PIU was found to be relatively weak, and this
was identified as a significant issue by the MTR, which made specific recommendations for improvement.
Following the implementation of these recommendations, the performance improved and as time elapsed,
the unit evolved from a regular PIU to a real PMU with a complex structure, well defined responsibilities
and skilled staff who acted not only as a management unit but also as a technical advisory unit. The result
was beneficial to the project performance and the unit was effective in carrying out all aspects of the
project implementation such as financial management, procurement arrangements, reporting activities and
disbursements. The seriousness with which the M&E activities were considered can be an example for
many other similar projects. The capacity developed in the PIU for working at the community level
(which was renamed as the Social Investment Division of the Municipal Development Fund) was able to
to have a wider impact when merged with the MDF.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Given that both Government and GSIF performance are rated satisfactory, the overall Borrower
performance is rated as Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Several lessons were learned from the experience of this project, providing valuable information which
was used in the follow-up operation (GSIF2). Also, these lessons confirmed several findings of the 2002
OED report on "Social Funds: A Review of World Bank Experience." Among them the most important
were related to:

Sustainability. The engagement of community members and local governments is critical to both
implementation and especially post-completion phases. If there is a high degree of collective enthusiasm
for the first phase, in the post-completion phase the enthusiasm tends to diminish, and the responsibility
for maintenance tends to be neglected, thus the sustainability suffers, despite the existence of the
management, operation and management plans. This is mainly valid for the public utility infrastructure,
as also mentioned in para 3.2 above, whose sustainability is somehow more difficult to be achieved than
in the case of education and health micro-projects (reflected also by the above mentioned OED report) .

Efficacy. The successful results of the GSIF project in the Georgian context (post-conflict and crisis
situations) indicate that this instrument (SIF), is an appropriate tool for dealing with such situations
(recognized also by the OED study). The eventual merger of the SIF into a more mainstream mechanism
of the Government is also in keeping with best practices.


                                                     15

Size of rehabilitated infrastructure. All aspects of each micro-project, including its size, require a very
careful consideration; also, necessary trade-offs should be taken into account, such as the objective of the
micro-project, its technical aspect and its cost. In several cases, mostly related to rural school buildings, it
was observed that the size exceeded the needs of the current number of students. Those schools were
built in early 1950s and 1960s and used to serve a much bigger number of students. The student
population has decreased over time because of outmigration and declining fertility. In the cases of such
micro-projects, the communities and GSIF were facing a dilemma whether to refurbish only a part of the
building or entire building. Whenever possible, only parts of the buildings were refurbished, but with
careful consideration concerning the quality of learning environment and technical feasibility. However,
in some cases, this type of work (particularly roof repairs) could not be done only partially.

Counterpart funds. The percentage of counterpart funds for this type of micro-projects should be
estimated carefully, taking into account the particular circumstances of the country and the ability to
contribute. In this project, the lack of timely counterpart funds, either from the community side (due to
low ownership), or from the government side (caused by the overall poor macroeconomic situation),
generated delays in implementation, dissatisfaction among the contractors and community members, or
tended to temporarily shift the focus from the poor to better-off communities. Smaller community
contribution would probably be more appropriate for a country such as Georgia, where poverty is
widespread especially in the rural areas.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The MDFG as implementing agency and the Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Borrower, reviewed
and provided comments on this ICR, which were considered and appropriate changes were made,
wherever possible.

(b) Co-financiers

Beginning with March 2000, the German Government provided non-reimbursable financial support
through the German Reconstruction Credit Bank (KfW), for additional micro-projects, under the
Employment Generation Program, targeting the Borjomi-Kharagauli National Park Zone. The program
was implemented using the same GSIF1 operational manual, with minor differences related to the local
and government contributions and maintenance support requirements. The KfW program supported 25
micro-projects (13 out of the total of 26 in the education area). Development of community centers,
water supply systems and roads were also supported by this program.

The discussions with the GOPA implementing consultants for the KfW-supported program revealed a
satisfactory performance in terms of implementation and maintenance, especially for schools, roads and
water supply micro-projects. Less encouraging comments were provided on the community centers, for
not being used to their full capacity or to their initial destination, in the post-completion period.

However, the above mentioned overall satisfactory performance constituted an incentive strong enough
for KfW to finance a follow-on project totaling EUR 7.5 million.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                        16

The NGO community participated in project implementation as real partners of local communities, being
mainly involved in the: (i) promotion of micro-projects at the community level, (ii) assistance for the
identification of community priorities; and (iii) provision of assistance and training for the preparation of
the micro-project proposals.

The partnership with the NGOs continued throughout the entire project life and contributed to the
development of a sense of ownership in the beneficiary communities, and most importantly, to the overall
change of people's mentality, and to restoring of trust in the local authorities. Almost 1200 communities
benefited from the NGOs' support in the various phases of the project implementation. Also, several
NGOs were competitively commissioned for conducting social impact evaluations and sustainability and
maintenance studies (see Annex 9, where these studies are listed).

At the same time, the GSIF was beneficial to the NGO sector development as a whole, by providing
resources that supported their participation in various project activities.




                                                     17

   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                               Actual/Latest
             Components                 Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
                                         (USD millions)       Estimate (USD
                                                                 millions)            Appraisal

REHABILITATION OF SMALL
SCALE INFRASTRUCTURE                           24.80                19.83               79.96

INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO GSIF                   1.70                 3.07              180.59
SUPPORT TO SMALL
CONTRACTORS AND                                 0.30                 0.27               90.00
COMMUNITIES
SUPPORT FOR MONITORING OF
LIVING STANDARDS                                0.30                 0.08               26.66

PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                    0.70                 0.61               87.14
                  Total Baseline Cost          27.80                23.86               85.83
Physical Contingencies                          0.30
Price Contingencies                             0.20
                   Total Project Costs         28.30                23.86               84.31
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT (SCEER)                     5.31                 6.13              115.66
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO GSIF                   0.89                 1.00              112.36
TOTAL SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT                       6.20                 7.13              115.00

TOTAL GSIF+SUPPLEMENTAL                        34.50                30.99               89.83

   (b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal       Actual/Latest
               Source of Funds                    Estimate          Estimate         Percentage of

                                              (USD millions)     (USD millions)        Appraisal

 Borrower                                           5.80              3.02              52.07
 Local Communities                                  2.50              1.72              68.80
 International Development Association (IDA)       20.00              19.12             95.60
 TOTAL CREDIT                                      28.30              23.86             84.31
 Borrower                                           1.20               1.67             139.16
 International Development Association (IDA)        5.00               5.46             109.20
 SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT                                6.20              7.13              115.00
 TOTAL GSIF+SUPPLEMENTAL                           34.50              30.99             89.83
 German Reconstruction Credit Bank
 (KfW)                                              2.33               2.33             100.00


 Note: The IDA credit and the SCEER were 100% disbursed in SDR terms. However, the tables above
 show cumulative disbursements in US$ historical equivalents and hence the values are smaller because of
 the SDR exchange rate fluctuations.




                                                   18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component I: Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructure (actual total costs - GSIF: US$19.83
million + SCEER: US$6.13 million)

GSIF, selected and supported the implementation of 375 infrastructure micro-projects (out of 1209
proposals) in poor and remote areas, making the best use of local resources (e.g., contractors, suppliers
and manpower) to the largest possible extent. The micro-projects financed by the GSIF aimed at
improving the basic infrastructure for water supply, sanitation, solid waste management, and
rehabilitating the local clinics, primary schools and feeder roads. Priority was to be given to the micro-
projects: (i) promoting community participation in micro-project identification and implementation; (ii)
incorporating cost sharing by communities and regional/local governments; and (iii) integrating plans for
operation and maintenance.

The micro-projects were conducted in the following districts: City Tbilisi (microprojects: 73- completed);
Achara (10); Guria (22); Imereti: (55); Kakheti (36); Conflict zone (16); Mtskheta-Mtianeti (33); Racha-
Lechkhumi (17); Samegrelo-zemo Svaneti (27); Samtskhe-Javakheti (47); Kvemo Kartli (33); Shida
Kartli (6). 16 sub-projects were completed in post-conflict zones (namely Gulripshi, Tskhinvali and
Liakhvi Gorge). The table below presents a breakdown of the micro-projects by typology, community
participation, and average size:



                                                             Average Cost    Community     Cost Per
      Typology           Projects    Beneficiary     %          (US$)        Contribution Beneficiary
                                                                                (% of       (US$)
                                                                              Average
                                                                               cost)

      Health                  43          675,097   27.9%        53,701.95         19.0%         3.42

      Education              170          239,423    9.9%        49,007.76         27.3%        34.80

      Water System           104          612,130   25.3%        48,240.76         15.8%         8.20

      Irrigation                5          12,830    0.5%        53,495.85         10.4%        20.85

      Sanitation               1           40,000    1.7%        66,856.83          9.7%         1.67

      Electro Energy            2          23,421    1.0%        59,812.44         18.6%         5.11

      Communication            2           23,600    1.0%        57,408.43         17.8%         4.87

      Roads                   13          435,887   18.0%        55,320.99         15.5%         1.65

      Bridges                  7           24,986    1.0%        56,198.72          9.5%        15.74

      Community
      Center                  17          244,205   10.1%        43,299.43         91.3%         3.01

      Shelters                  1          40,000    1.7%        54,508.65         24.8%         1.36

      Electricity Lines        1           14,000    0.6%        77,278.98          4.2%         5.52

      Gas Supply                6          25,149    1.0%        34,743.58         12.8%         8.29

      Other                     3            7,934   0.3%        23,981.49             7%        9.07

      Total                  375        2,418,662   100.0%       52,418.28         20.2%         8.83




                                                    19

SCEER provided for additional resources that were envisaged to support the rehabilitation of educational
infrastructure of Tbilisi schools, damaged by the April 25, 2002 earthquake.

Of the 127 educational facilities (secondary schools and nursery kindergartens) in the initial list, proposed
to be rehabilitated, the Bank agreed, jointly with the Government, on a list of 22 schools to be supported
by the supplemental credit. The selection was conducted by a Commission established by the Tbilisi
Merya (City Hall) which included representatives of various relevant Government agencies and entities,
based on the following agreed criteria: (i) the damage of the building had to exceed the 2nd degree; (ii)
the area of the building was not to be rented by the other private structure; (iii) there had to be no
rehabilitation works conducted after the earthquake; and (iv) the school had to serve more than 70% of
students (compared with the designed capacity).

As a result of the successful rehabilitation of the 22 secondary schools in Tbilisi, 18,188 students and
1,885 staff are currently benefiting, learning and teaching in adequate and safe conditions.

Component II: Institutional Support for GSIF (actual total costs - GSIF: US$3.07 million +
SCEER: US$1.0 million)

This component supported the GSIF through the provision of equipment, vehicles, operating costs
(salaries included), training, technical assistance, and financing for monitoring and evaluation of
implementing activities (including for the upgrade and maintenance of the Management Information
System, designed during the pilot phase).

Under this component, the GSIF carried out beneficiary and impact assessments, undertaken to ascertain
the performance of the implementation process and the results of the GSIF financed micro-projects (see
list provided in Annex 9). Their findings and recommendations are presented in the various sections of
this ICR, and they were considered a valuable learning source for both the improvement of the GSIF
project performance and for the design of the follow-up operation.

A comprehensively developed, updated and properly maintained MIS (for the entire project life) was
extremely useful for the M&E activities of the project. The developed and constantly updated video
archives allowed for convincing comparisons between a "before" status and what has been achieved at the
completion of the micro-projects supported under the project.

Component III: Support to Small Contractors and Communities (actual total costs US$0.27
million)

This component provided additional resources of the GSIF, to deliver technical managerial and
organizational support to small contractors and communities in order to enhance their capacity to perform
the functions related to the micro-projects.        Small business contractors got acquainted with the
competitive procurement procedures and with their responsibilities during works and warranty period.

More than 350 biddings were announced and more than 600 local contractors participated. If during the
first rounds of tenders the number of bidders was small, and the quality of their proposals was quite weak
(many of them being rejected), in the next rounds, as a result of the experience acquired, the competitive
process improved significantly. More than 14, 000 workers were employed for the implementation of
micro-projects.

The community participation was satisfactory on average, considering that more than 23,000 people
participated in the community meetings (initial and follow-up meetings), women being well represented



                                                     20

(almost 42%). The participation effort paid off, considering that almost 2.4 million of people benefited
from the micro-projects financed under the GSIF project.

Component IV: Support for Monitoring of Living Conditions (actual total costs US$0.08 million).
This component supported the State Department of Statistics capacity in conducting living standards
monitoring surveys based on which, more realistic poverty assessments were conducted. These surveys
provided the social policy decision makers a better understanding of the country's poverty profiles. The
surveys conducted regularly on a quarterly rotating sample of 3,500 households also allowed for a better
identification of district-by-district poverty pockets, supporting thus the micro-projects target towards the
poor communities.




                                                      21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

As in most of the social development fund projects, it is difficult to provide an overall project economic
and financial analysis because of the difficulty of quantifying the benefits in the absence of the necessary
data. Even if the data regarding the unit costs are available, as in the case of the GSIF, the relevance of
comparison is not that meaningful due to the diversity of micro-project types and the local conditions
where they are implemented.

While it was not feasible to calculate the Economic Rate of Return of micro-projects, the assessment of
the unit costs of micro-projects reveals that the actual average cost per beneficiary (US$ 8.83) was much
lower than anticipated (US$30) [IO 3], as a result of the higher final number of beneficiaries: 2.4 million,
compared with roughly 1 million initially estimated. At the same time, the final average micro-project
cost (US$52,418) was lower that the initially estimated one (US$ 60,000). However, it must be noted that
the average micro-project costs per capita spent in rural and mountainous areas [IO 4] turned out to be
higher (US$8.55) than the initial estimate of (US$5.25) due to the high costs related to the transportation
of construction materials and workers, as well as to the smaller number of beneficiaries of the projects
implemented in remote and high altitude areas.




                                                     22

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                               Title               Unit Responsibility/
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Robert Maurer                Senior Urban Specialist              ECSIN  PTL
Mary Beth Schmidt            Social Funds Specialist              ECSHD
Anna D. Staszewicz           Financial Analyst                    ECSIN  FM
Luigi Giovine                Institutional Specialist             LCSPF
Jagdish Jassal               Procurement Specialist               ECSCS  Procurement
Irakli Managadze             Operations Assistant                 ECSIN
Betsy McGean                 Social Scientist                     ECSIN
Eric Peterson                Architect/Technical Specialist       ECSIN
Sergei Popov                 Water Engineer/Technical Specialist  ECSIN
Manzoor Rehman               Civil Engineer/Technical Specialist  LCSPF
Shobha Subramanian           Team Assistant                       ECSIN
Caroline Makram Milad        Team Assistant                       ECSIN


Supervision/ICR

Aleksandra Posarac           Lead Economist                        ECSHD TTL
Mary Beth Schmidt            Social Funds Specialist               ECSHD TTL
Antonio C Lim                Operations Officer                    ECSHD TTL
Caroline Mascarell           Operations Officer                    ECSHD TTL
Yingwei Wu                   Procurement Accredited Staff          ECSPS
Anush Bezhanyan              Sr. Operations Officer.               ECSHD
Hjalte Sederlof              Consultant                            ECSPE
Alexandre Marc               Advisor                               ECSHD
Tamar Gotsadze               Health Specialist                     ECSHD
Eugenio Francesco Mancinelli Consultant                            ECSHD
Hideki Mori                  Sr. Social Protection Specialist      ECSHD
Richard Flroescu             Sr. Operations Officer                ECSHD
Carmen F. Laurente           Sr. Program Assistant                 ECSHD




                                                23

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                          No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                                        19.73
  FY97                                                                        79.23
  FY98                                                                        70.16
  FY99                                                                          2.16
                            Total:                                           171.28
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                        47.63
  FY99                                                                        67.60
  FY00                                          11                            49.36
  FY01                                          24                            91.19
  FY02                                          15                            54.40
  FY03                                          13                            63.65
  FY04                                           8                            31.00
  FY05                                           1                              1.48*
  FY06                                                                          0.68*
  FY07                                           2                              3.17*
  FY08                                                                          0.17*
                            Total:              74                           410.33

The GSIF/SCEER was supervised together with GSIF2 during the FY05-08 and did not have a separate
budget.




                                              24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

         Impact Assessment for Social Investment Fund in Georgia

                                 Main Results and Recommendations

Different project success rates (i.e. sustainability and effectiveness) depend on the cohesion of the local
community and the conscientiousness of the local authorities and project operators. Thematically, similar
projects seem to evoke similar trends, even if analyzed in different regions. For example, the level of
community satisfaction is equally high when it comes to school restoration projects and is somewhat
similar regarding water-supply projects. In all the projects in Tbilisi involving water utilities, the
communities had the same approach. It is notable that all the micro-projects of Georgian Social
Investment Fund under surveillance accomplished the "acceptance and delivery" procedure (primary and
final), which proves timely and high quality delivery of the micro project's objective from both the
community and the contractor's side. The weaknesses found are mostly related to ineffective performance
of the Communities related to the maintenance and sustaining obligation.

1.       How to address more effectively the needs and priorities of the poorest strata of the
population through various micro-projects.

Research results show that GSIF has significantly assisted target communities in restoring infrastructures.
All the community reacted positively to assistance, even in cases when the micro-projects had not become
fully operative, or were only partially operative. Community members emphasized that "without the
assistance of GSIF they would have never achieved this by themselves."

93 percent of the interviewed members of the local community believed that the projects completed
within their community had been a success (73% thought they were very successful, 20% - successful).
89 percent said that the project implemented met the most critical needs of the community and that the
project benefited the social group for which it was intended (i.e. water supply system ­ by the rural
population group, school ­ by teachers and students group, hospital ­ by the personnel and patients
group). In addition, 91% of community members believed that the poorest members of the community
would capitalize on the project. 93 percent of the interviewees said that they themselves had directly
benefited from the projects. 97 percent noted that women benefited from the projects. 64 percent of
interviewees said that the community had participated in selecting the project and the same number said
that they attended the community meeting at which the project was selected. 16 out of 305 interviewees
stated that they had not participated in the community meeting because they had either not known about it
or because they had decided that their participation was not necessary.

Inactivity from members of the community is clearly demonstrated by the fact that a high proportion of
interviewees refrained from answering many questions, or from giving concrete evaluations and opted to
remain silent.

One half of the interviewees (51%) glossed over how the micro-project had been selected. The other half
said that the project had been unanimously selected at the meeting. 73% of the interviewees confirmed
that the community had elected the Micro-Project Committee to implement the project. 23% said they had
no idea how it had been done and only 4.6% said they did not elect the Micro-Project Committee. The
majority of interviewees had a correct understanding of the responsibilities of the Micro-Project



                                                      25

Committee. 66% said they were happy with the work done by the Committee. 14% were dissatisfied with
the Committee's performance.

Figure 1. Project evaluation related issues



 100%          93%              89%               91%

                                                                   64%              66%

  50%


    0%
            Project is        Project           Project        Community            The
           Successful      Applies to the     Benefits the    Took Part in     Community is
                          Main Needs of          Most         Selecting the    Content with
                                the          Impoverished Micro-Project Work of Micro-
                            Community         Members of                          Project
                                                  the                           Committee
                                              Community


Significantly, more than one third of the interviewees (34%) could not clearly state why they believed the
project had been a success. It is also worth mentioning that in those communities where schools and
kindergartens had been renovated, people evaluated the success of the project more easily: therefore 28%
of interviewees mentioned new schools and kindergartens as a successful result of the project. 17 percent
believed success was due to improved facilities in hospitals or policlinics. 5 percent considered a project
was successful because of improved tap water supplies. This confirms that community members did
notice the positive results of projects - an optimistic indicator. However, while estimating a project as
"highly effective", community members also often listed shortcomings.

Usually, the Fund assistance was unexpected and therefore perhaps the initial pleasant surprise often
prevented community members from making informed criticisms and evaluations. This was
understandable bearing in mind that this was the first assistance many of them had received for decades.
Therefore, the overwhelming majority of interviewees (87%) could not comment when asked about how
the project could have been improved.

Few said that projects should have been carried out more professionally or conscientiously, or that some
aspects went out uncompleted ­ something that should have been controlled by the community itself.
Only four interviewees clearly justified their estimations: one spoke of a lack of financial resources and
two others mentioned internal disruptions within the water-supply network. Even those evaluating the
project's achievements as ineffective could not explain why they so considered. The question of what
should have been improved to make the project more effective was answered by those community
members who were satisfied with the projects and who made certain suggestions.

A certain passivity from community members is corroborated by the fact that only 14% (42 interviewees)
replied (affirmatively or negatively) when asked if they had experienced problems with the project. In
addition, one third of interviewees refrained from mentioning whom they had addressed the issues.
Another fifth (19%) of interviewees claimed that they had no problems and the same number said they
had addressed emerging problems to the project administration. Only eight interviewees mentioned the
Micro-Project Committee as a body responsible for resolving problems. An even larger number of


                                                    26

interviewees (13) believed that they could settle a problem with the involvement of GSIF officials. All
these aspects confirm that community members often refrained from participating in project
implementation and preferred to speak of actual results. In the long run, such passivity will have a
negative effect on the long-term effectiveness and sustainability of a project. This is especially true for
those regions where, due to some objective circumstances, the Micro-Project Committee members are
themselves relatively passive. Clearly, several efforts should be made to stimulate and mobilize the
community beforehand. Difficulties are also faced in implementation when there is no particular
community administrator) for the project. For instance, when schools are involved, the teachers and the
students are the ones who take upon themselves the responsibility of the restored building. The situation
is different, however, with projects involving restoration of water supply systems. In this case, unless an
association of water consumers has been established, it is unclear who is supposed to assume
responsibility for looking after the water supply system after completion of the project. Consequently,
there have been interruptions in water supplies to villages. (The aforementioned association of water
consumers is a union of community members which collects water rates for water-supply maintenance.)
Since the establishment of an association of water consumers was possible only in a few cases, it become
clear why drinking water still remained an issue even in communities where the water supply system had
been overhauled.

On the issue of pipelines, there was dissatisfaction within the communities because of the frequent
failures in the local network, although few problems occurred with the major pipeline (for bringing
drinking and irrigation water, as well as gas), which was repaired with funding from GSIF. Such failures
often had two types of consequences ­ if the yard of one neighbor was flooded due to a tap malfunction,
the second neighbor's access to water supply was cut off. As to the gas pipeline projects, interviewees did
not deny that they were aware that natural gas "would have not been piped directly to their houses" under
the GSIF project, and they openly expressed discontent on this subject. However, at the same time, they
acknowledged the prospective importance of the project because sooner or later every resident needed to
be able to afford installing an internal network, as "it is still cheaper than storing up firewood in winter."
Interestingly enough, a defective internal network is commonly caused by the lack of mobilization, the
inactivity and distrust on the part of the community. The community could have improved the internal
network by raising additional funds; however many believed this was the responsibility of the authorities
and therefore the problem remained unsolved.

38 percent of interviewed members of the community attended the community meeting at which a project
was selected and where the Micro-Project Committee was elected. This figure is quite a good indicator
for communities. The attendance rates are presented in graph #2.

Reasons for not attending the meeting were not given by the majority of respondents ­ 67%. Others often
mentioned they had no knowledge about the meeting (10%) or that they were not around (13%) at that
time of the meeting. Some respondents said they were busy and did not have time to go to the meeting
(3%), or they did not consider that their attendance would make a difference (2%) -"They will manage
without me".

The attitude of community members towards GSIF was totally different from how they felt about the
local authorities. Twice as many interviewees (78%) gave a positive evaluation to the work of GSIF. 41%
of this number thought that the work had been excellent, 31% said that it had been good. Regrettably, a
certain number of interviewees could not either recall the name of the Fund or had never inquired about
which agency had implemented the project. The Fund's goal is not only to assist the population, but also
to inspire trust. General nihilism and lack of trust, so common in Georgia at that time, strongly hindered
reforms from being implemented in the country, as well as all types of social and political processes.




                                                      27

Figure 2. Participation in community meetings


    Tbilisi- Medical and Prophylactic      1          8
       Tbilisi-War Veteran's Hospital         4                     9
       Tbilisi-Mother's and Children's       3         5
       Tbilisi-Clinic for Poor Citizen's      4                7
       Tbilisi- Deaf Children's School        4                     9
                  Tbilisi-School #126          5           3
                 Tbilisi- Polyclinic #17          8                     3
                  Tbilisi- Polyclinic #9          8                          7
                    Patardzeuli-School         5                  6
                       Kakabeti-School        4      1
                       Sagarejo-School     1      6
               Khondoli-Water Supply        2         6
              Kharajala-Water Supply            6          1
                  Telavi-Sport School      1      6
                      Sadakhlo-School            7                  3
                     Marneuli-Hospital         5                  6
                          Zvare-School            8
 Khidari-Community Center Building          2          7
         Marelisi-Community Center            4
                        Vardzia-School      2    3
                         Kitskhi-School         6
                       Leghvani-School        4         3
  Varkhani - Village Councel Building      1      6
                    Kharagauli-School           6
                       Varkhani-School      2         6
              Buzaveti - Water Supply        3       3
                Kartsepi-Water Supply      1   3
              Totkhami-Water Supply          3
                        Sadzeli-School     1      6
                Atskhuri-Water Supply          5
              Tsinubani-Water Supply        2    3
                             Sviri-Road      3        4
                           Armazi-Gas          5       1
             Chardakhi-Water Supply          3       3
                 Grigoliantkari-School        4       2
           Abanoskhevi-Kindergarten         2         6
       Bulachauri-Melioration Water             6          1
                  Gudamakhri-School        1      6
                       Zhebota-School      1      6
                     Tushurebi-School         4         3

                                         0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
                                   Attended                Didn't Attend



Across the board, a common trend was clearly detected: everyone, from representatives of local
authorities to community members, believed that the smaller the amount of funding was requested for
projects, the bigger were the chances to receive it. Such an attitude caused many problems to community
members and project administrators, alike. The communities were very often tempted to minimize the
budget of a project and then, during implementation, they would show dissatisfaction when money was
insufficient for materials or works. The Fund would need to make serious efforts to tackle deliberate
minimization of budgets on the part of communities. It would be essential for the Fund to point out the
negative effects of such attitudes through information materials handed out to communities.



                                                     28

2.       What inhibits overall participation of the community in a micro-project.

A great number of reasons prevent community members from participating in project selection and its
subsequent workings. Most of these reasons are of a psychological nature and stem from community
mentality (e.g. issues concerning irresponsibility or passiveness). Certain social factors have been
reinforced over time and have become habit. For instance, it is commonly believed that the government
should take care of the general issues and that this is not the public's responsibility. This tendency is
particularly apparent when the project involves restoration of some official institutional compounds.
Since community members do not even take interest in the project details, less do they know about the
source of funding.

Soviet experience: The modern social and economic structure differs severely from what existed in the
recent past. However, the former practices are still largely affecting attitudes and social sentiments. For
instance, the population of a village does not feel responsible for its own water supply system, or the
hospital personnel is not getting involved in looking after their hospital buildings. Taking responsibility is
somehow a new approach for the Georgian society. In the past, this was the government's task, which
more or less managed to keep the existing infrastructure in order. This is one of the reasons for which the
majority of community members cannot make a concerted move and only a few enterprising individuals
take up initiatives and, most importantly, manage to achieve results.

The initiative of isolated community members vs. mobilization of the whole community? Clearly, GSIF
activities largely depend on consumer ideologies and attitudes, as well as their ability to adequately
manage financial resources, either provided by the Fund or available locally.

In Tbilisi, the situation is slightly different. The success of a project depends on the enthusiasm of one or
a few individuals, while the major part of the community is less active. Naturally, these few people cannot
guarantee the sustainability of a project. Therefore, despite the fact that projects are being successfully
completed, they appear less sustainable in the long run. A good example of this situation is the hospital
for war veterans in Tbilisi. Despite its renovation, after a year, many things needed to be repaired again.
Since the hospital foundation was not reinforced (as per the Project Appraisal report, this was not
proposed in the scope of works as it should have, at that time) the April 2002 earthquake did a lot of
damage to the hospital building which is currently declared as an unsafe building. Another example is an
irrigation system in the village of Bulachauri (Mtskheta Region). The community failed to clear the pipes,
which should have been done at regular intervals. Consequently, the system became inoperative once
again.

In contrast is the example of the Tbilisi policlinic #17. Its foundation was reinforced, although the project
had not included a major overhaul of the policlinic building. The damage caused by the earthquake was
thus insignificant.

Pessimism and lack of trust towards central and local authorities: It is crucial to hold meetings and
trainings in those communities which are less active. Visual materials (information leaflets, armbands or
badges) are useful tools to inform the community members about the Fund's objectives and to secure the
public interest. However, community members should be well aware not only about the Fund's activities,
but should also be able to approach the Fund's representatives easily. Not only will this facilitate the
project itself, but people's trust in their own government would also be raised. Significantly, 93% of the
public at large participate regularly in the election process, but only 32% are satisfied with the
performance of their local authorities.




                                                       29

Lack of availability of information about the Fund: A number of interviewed community members was
completely unaware of the GSIF activities. For instance, residents of villages in the Samtskhe Javakheti
region would often say that they were being assisted by "Americans", while in the Kharagauli area, the
credit for assistance was attributed to "Germans". Even in Tbilisi, where information should be more
readily available, GSIF activities are obviously not known. Also, quite frequently, the members of
Micro-Project Committees did not consider it necessary to inform themselves about the source of funding.
Few had detailed information on the Fund's activities but it was difficult for them to identify the funding
criteria. Again, this points out the necessity for further mobilization of the whole community, and to avoid
focusing on selected individuals. Quite often, when asked if they had any knowledge about the Fund, the
community members (25%) declared they had heard of it either from the local government officials, or
from governors or directors of various agencies. In most cases (38%) interviewees said that they did not
know how the community had learned about GSIF. Others said that they found out about the project only
after it had been completed.

The fact that part of the interviewed community members, were unaware of project funding requests and
of their submission addressees confirms that there is a lack of information and that community members
are passive.

Figure 3. Other project and fund-related experience within communities




      Were any other
    Projects Executed in
                            15               40                         45
   the Village by GSIF or
       other Funds?




                         0%        20%          40%         60%          80%        100%


                     Yes                     No                      Don't know



Access to information on the Georgian Social Investment Fund's activities could have been facilitated
through advertisements- via broadcast on television and radio, by use of leaflets or by assigning a
distributor of information. A special television program could be made highlighting the successes of the
first phase of GSIF's activity. Examples of real-life success stories are compelling evidence.

Lack of trust towards local and central authorities. As mentioned earlier, the majority of interviewees
were dissatisfied with the performance of their local authorities and even more disappointed with that of
the central government. This is not surprising. It is common knowledge that corruption is deeply
entrenched in state institutions. Therefore, when it comes to governmental goodwill and charity, the
public is skeptical. So community members found it rather difficult to believe and to be cognizant of the
fact that the Georgian Social Investment Fund is a state organization and its activities stem from a
governmental initiative. Therefore, visual materials about the Fund and its activities would have been
most useful.

When comparing various types of project (e.g. water supply - drinking or irrigation water, gas supply
systems and restoration of schools and kindergartens), it became obvious that projects involving
restoration of schools and kindergartens were very successful, whereas some problems occurred and still
persist for post-completion projects relating to water or gas supply networks. Such problems led to


                                                       30

conflicts within communities. In addition, during the implementation phase of these projects, different
infringements found good ground to develop. For example, there was opportunity for attempts to sell the
pipes or to use the old pipes instead of purchasing new ones. Therefore, the Georgian Social Investment
Fund would definitely need to create a rigid control system. This could take the form of a board of
supervisors comprising the community members. Unlike Micro-Project Committees, the board of
supervisors may base its functions on certain regulatory and control capacities, including the supervision
of the works being performed (both restoration and construction).

3.       What stops micro-projects from being sustainable and how to solve related problems.

Insufficiency of information provided. Although GSIF projects are technically well designed and
properly implemented with meetings being held prior to implementation for raising sustainability, this
does not seem to be enough. Obviously, several efforts should be made to activate the population and
raise awareness within the community, i.e., a general understanding of the rules and types of the projects.
During the community meetings, GSIF was distributing the printed materials, but these were not covering
all aspects since part of Communities were still not well informed about the features of certain projects,
about who were the participants and what were their responsibilities in the projects. Again, informative
literature could have played an important role here. It is evident that the low indicators on the public
awareness campaigns are due to general passiveness of the communities.

Procedural issues. General and regular attendance at meetings is important. Holding meetings in smaller
groups (the so-called focus groups) would have also been advisable here so that more concrete issues be
discussed in more depth. It would have been worthwhile holding second general meetings with the
population to reveal the details of the decisions made for the respective projects. Using this procedure, the
Georgian Social Investment Fund could have stimulated the feedback, revealed the actual needs and
defined the future plans for assisting the population.

It would have been valuable discussing ideas in parallel to selecting Micro-Project Committee members,
thus actively engaging the community members in project-related activities as well as in the mobilization
and regulatory mechanisms.

Working out and arranging public discussions of ongoing sustainability plans. Making plans and
setting particular goals (including founding an association of water consumers) is usually required not
only for the implementation of a project, but also for sustaining it afterwards. Plans need to be discussed
at community meetings. The Georgian Social Investment Fund should have offered technical
consultations to community members, giving examples of successes already achieved in similar projects.
There are many such examples that were carried out by the Fund. The Fund conducted trainings and
supervised and controlled activities, but it is still evident that communities should have been more
involved in terms of setting their own plans.

Transparency and management of finances. This research showed that a greater engagement of the
communities in a micro-project had a direct result: there was more willingness and readiness to look after
the restored facilities. Implementation, fundraising and maintenance (for the cases where buildings were
repaired) are all aspects of community participation. But maximum transparency and particular emphasis
should be given to the way the money was spent. A third (30%) of the interviewed community members
who personally had made financial contributions to the project said that they did not know how the
money was spent. More than half of the interviewees (57%) were not even aware of the possibility to find
out how the money allocated for the project had been used. A quarter of the interviewees (25%) claimed
that such a mechanism did not exist. Based on how the community members described their awareness
about the financial aspects, it was clear that holding general meetings and Micro-Project Committee



                                                     31

sessions during the course of the project was most effective in maintaining a strong transparency. This is
how 46% of the more knowledgeable interviewees perceived expenditure-related issues.

It should be noted that the majority of the community (64%) was unaware of the amount of financial
contribution from the community side. A further 13% said that the community had made no contribution
- which is misleading, as in all cases the community's share was paid at the very least by the local
authorities. Many respondents cited different numbers and percentages. It is rather difficult to ask people
to control factors they are unfamiliar with. Which is the reason why transparency must be secured. The
Fund representatives could at least discuss these issues during the training meetings. They should also
require that transparency be a major criteria for obtaining finances for a project.

Official documentation. Certain official documentation and agreements, or even a Memorandum of Trust
or Responsibility should have been prepared. The Georgian Social Investment Fund could have signed a
Memorandum of Responsibility or other similar agreements with each unit of the community. This would
have included a written (printed) description of the project: its scope, finances/budget and the
contribution/role of the community. It would have outlined the community rights and responsibilities, as
well as those of the MPC and the functions and responsibilities of the board of supervisors. The
community members would have signed all memorandums, with a copy for the recipient and the GSIF,
respectively. If we were to add to these official documents the booklets and brochures about GSIF and a
project-proposal application form, the level of awareness among the population would have tremendously
increased. This would, in turn, have created a sense that individuals are able to make a difference. It
should be noted that the set of project documents (one copy) needs to be kept within the community and it
should be available for all community members.

Community organizations and lack of local non-governmental organizations. The study shows that the
majority of communities have little participation in non-governmental organizations. There are almost no
non-governmental organizations working for the community development. In the case of GSIF projects,
the activity of non-governmental and governmental organizations may guarantee the success of the
project. The project analysis clearly showed how important the role of the local authorities would have
been for the success of the project. This role would have been assigned to non-governmental and
community organizations when the local authorities were not managing projects. The Georgian Social
Investment Fund could have encouraged the establishment of non-governmental organizations, thus
developing community structures.

The only fully functioning non-governmental organization mentioned in the survey was in the Kharagauli
district. Accordingly, the report is not presenting a significant picture of local non-governmental
organizations. All mentioned non-governmental organizations are presented in Annex 1, at the end of this
document.

Also, the opportunities for local non-governmental organizations were very limited. The lack of
electricity, telecommunications and technical equipment show that the existing organizations were not
linked to other national and international projects. Their activities were limited mostly to specific local
problems and for which they had to find solutions; but even achieving these goals was hampered by
serious economic shortages.

Soviet experience ­ Stemming from all the above, the community members still have certain expectations
regarding the state responsibility. Since today, this is no longer realistic, it is important to increase the role
and responsibilities of the community members providing agreements, memoranda, or establishing non-
governmental or community organizations. Changing the Soviet mentality and attitudes requires time and
a large, and systematically repeated trainings and workshops.



                                                      32

4.       Obstacles hindering project success on the side of: the community, the public organizations,
the non-governmental organizations and the state institutions.

Insufficient community and local non-governmental activity. As noted above, full success of projects
requires maximum support from the community.                  Forming community and non-governmental
organizations remains a practical way to mobilize the community. Otherwise, it is idealistic to expect civil
consciousness from people under tensioned financial circumstances. The Georgian Social Investment
Fund could have cited successful examples in other communities - sounding a note of hope is always a
powerful stimulus.

Involving local authorities. Projects which we have been already reviewed show that when the
community network and the non-governmental organizations are weak (especially in rural areas) the only
effective means for bringing the people together is by using the local authorities. Some types of
organizational structure need to be in place before embarking on long-term projects. It is actually often
the case of the members of the Micro-Project Committees, who also represent the local authorities or the
official structures (whether communal or social). The largest part of the community (65%) noted that their
local administration had implemented GSIF micro-projects. Despite this, one-third of those questioned
(33%) still could not specify whether or not the local authorities took part in any activities related to the
project.

Knowledge of project selection criteria. In addition to the members of the community, the members of
the Micro-Project Committee often had difficulties in naming the criteria by which their project had been
selected by the Georgian Social Investment Fund. This was often a good reason for frequent visits to
community representatives of the Fund. The issues presented were often minor and trivial. This situation
could have been avoided if an information awareness campaign had been prepared beforehand ­ covering
project criteria and requirements (including project maintenance issues).

Information Service and Trainings. A lot has been said about the necessity for information support.
So, we could briefly review the necessity for training and education. Since Georgian Social Investment
Fund projects (and similar assistance, in general) are the exception rather than the rule, it is sort of
difficult for the communities to "learn from their own mistakes". Therefore, the preliminary preparation
of target communities undertakes greater significance. Communities need to receive more comprehensive
information about the Georgian Social Investment Fund, including: a clear explanation of its general
objectives, its criteria for selecting projects, how project proposals and business plans need to be designed,
the responsibilities of community members regarding execution and maintenance of the project, the
designation and responsibilities of the Micro-Project Committee, and finally - issues of mutual
responsibility between the community and the Fund. Providing communities with previous successful
examples needs to be, once again, strongly stressed ­ since they are not prepared to receive assistance nor
are they knowledgeable about using it rationally. Equally, it is not realistic to base a project success on the
personal initiative of just one or several individuals. In all cases, any kind of mutual agreement needs to
be thoroughly and precisely supervised.




                                                       33

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

NA




                                      34

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)


                                      ON

      CREDIT # IDA 3020-GE and SUPPLEMETAL CREDIT #IDA 3020-1 GE
           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.6 MILLION and SDR 3.7 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                         GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA


                                       FOR


    Social Investment Fund Project (SIF-1) and additional project activities




                  Municipal Development Fund of Georgia (MDFG)

                        Social Investment Department (SID)




                                      35

          I.      Project summary


      The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) covers the period 1997-2007, during which the Social
  Investment Department (SID) (former Georgian Social Investment Fund /GSIF/) of the Municipal
  Development Fund of Georgia (MDFG) carried out its activities for the projects: (a) initially, the total
  cost of the Georgian Social Investment Fund (GSIF I) Project was financed by the World Bank and later
  on a grant was added, allocated by the German Reconstruction Credit Bank for the implementation of the
  "Employment Generation Program in Borjomi-Kharagauli National Park Support Zone"; (b) the
  Rehabilitation Project of the education facilities (Schools) damaged during the Tbilisi earthquake of April
  25, 2002, for which the World Bank (WB) allocated a supplemental credit for GSIF-1 project.

          a. Objectives and components (CREDIT # IDA 3020-GE)

          The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and Project Agreement (PA) between Georgia and
  the International Development Association (IDA) was signed on January 21, 1998, and was ratified by the
  Parliament of Georgia on May 12, 1998. The DCA/PA became effective on June 5, 1998. The
  Government of Georgia signed the Financial Cooperation Agreement with the Government of Germany
  on December 21, 1998. The Government of Georgia signed the Financing and Project Agreement with the
  German side on March 1, 2000. GSIF and the German side signed the Separate Agreement subsequent to
  the Financing Agreement on March 16, 2000.
          The objective of the Project was to improve the access of vulnerable groups to social and
  economic services on a sustainable basis. The project consists of the following parts with the purpose to
  achieve the respective objectives:
  -   Part A: Microprojects in Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructure aiming at financing
microprojects to improve social, economic, sanitation and environmental infrastructure and to support
income generation activities in accordance with the provision of the Operating Manual.
  -    Part B: Institutional Support for the GSIF aiming at strengthening the Fund's operational capacity
       through:
      (a) Provision of training and technical assistance to the Fund's staff in areas of financial planning,
          management, participatory community development, institutional analysis, contracting and
          bidding procedures, and project supervision;
      (b) Provision of equipment and vehicles; and
      (c) Carrying out of technical, managerial and financial audit.
  -    Part C: Support to Small Contractors and Communities through:
      (a) Provision of technical assistance and training to small construction firms to increase their
          technical and managerial capacity;
      (b) Provision of training and technical assistance to personnel of local governments, non-
          governmental organizations, communities and Micro-projects Committees in community
          participation, conducting competitive bidding, preparing contracts, and monitoring work progress.
  -    Part D: Support for Monitoring of Living Conditions through carrying out a survey of about 3,5000
       households throughout Georgia and training of staff of SDS.
          The Project Implementation period was between 1998 and 2003 (after the closing date
  extensions) and the total project cost was 30.63 mn USD (at the date of the Agreement signing), in
  breakdown:
      · 20 mn USD equivalent (SDR 14.60 mn) credit on standard IDA terms of 40 years maturity
          including 10 years grace;
      · 5.80 mn USD equivalent funding by Georgia;
      · 2.50 mn USD equivalent co-participation of local communities;



                                                       36

    · 2.33 mn USD equivalent (5.00 mn DM) grant by the German Reconstruction Credit Bank (KfW).

        b. Objectives and components (SUPPLEMETAL CREDIT #IDA 3020-1 GE)

        The amended Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and Project Agreement (PA) between
Georgia and the International Development Association (IDA) signed on May 2, 2003, were ratified by
the Georgian Parliament on July 16, 2003. The amended DCA/PA became effective on August 18, 2003.
    The objective of the Project was to continue the financing of the original project components, namely:
-Component 1: Micro-projects in Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructures but focusing on the
rehabilitation of educational facilities in Tbilisi damaged by the April 25, 2002, earthquake; and
-Component 2: Institutional Support for the GSIF to carry out implementation. The re-enforcement of the
damaged infrastructures was supposed to upgrade these educational facilities to make them safe against
an earthquake of at least similar magnitude as the one in 2002, and to meet the existing norms and
standards. In order to protect the investment, the rehabilitation work was also supposed to include the
mitigation of endemic drainage problems encountered with most of the targeted facilities.
        The Project Implementation period was between 2003 and 2007 (after the closing date
extensions) and the total project cost was 5.00 mn USD (at the date of the Agreement signing), in
breakdown:
    · 5.00 mn USD equivalent (SDR 3.70 mn) credit on standard IDA terms of 40 years maturity
        including 10 years grace.

II.     Major Developments and achievements related to the Project Objectives

a. Project Management and Activities

    The Georgian Social Investment Fund (GSIF) was established by the Presidential Decree (August 16,
1996). It was the joint initiative of the Government of Georgia, World Bank and USAID. On 30 April,
1998, the GSIF became a legal entity under the public law. With the purpose of a better coordination and
improvement of social investments implementation, the Government decided in 2005 to integrate GSIF
into the MDFG. The Decree of the President of Georgia was issued (#1027, December 6, 2005) "On
merger of the Juridical Entity of Public Law- Georgian Social Investment Fund with the Juridical Entity
of Public Law-Municipal Development Fund". The Government of Georgia issued the Decree #4 on
January 12, 2006, and approved the new Charter of the MDFG. The GSIF was legally integrated into the
MDFG and correspondingly, the MDFG assumed all rights and obligations of the GSIF, including those
set    in the Project Agreement, the Operating Manual, the Ministry of Finance-GSIF project
implementation agreement. Each and every reference to the "Georgian Social Investment Fund" is
replaced with the "Municipal Development Fund of Georgia", and each and every reference to the "GSIF"
is replaced with the "MDFG" in Development Credit and Project Agreements,. On March 20, 2006, the
World Bank signed the Amendment of the Development Credit and Project Agreements (Georgian Social
Investment Fund project /Credit #3758 GE/).

b. Social Investment Fund First Project (CREDIT # IDA 3020-GE)

    Initially, the total cost of the Georgian Social Investment Fund (GSIF I) Project was financed by the
World Bank and later on a grant was added, allocated by the German Reconstruction Credit Bank for the
implementation of the "Employment Generation Program in Borjomi-Kharagauli National Park Support
Zone".
    The following project components have been implemented:

Part A: Micro-projects in Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructure


                                                      37

  · Financing of Micro-projects to improve social, economic, sanitation and environmental
     infrastructure and to support income generation activities in accordance with the provision of the
     Operating Manual. The GSIF completed rehabilitation works under the Ist Project; as a result,
     375 facilities (IDA portion) have been rehabilitated. The total 1209 proposals from different
     communities were submitted to the GSIF. The GSIF under its Ist Project managed to implement
     16 facilities in the post-conflict zones (namely, Gulripshi, Tskhinvali and Liakhvi Gorge).
     Currently, in the frame of GSIF-1 (IDA portion), the statistic data of the Fund's activity show:
     among the completed MP, the highest demand by typology is for education facilities (170), then
     for water supply facilities (104), health facilities (43), culture centers (136), roads (13), bridges
     (7), gasification (6), melioration (5), power supply (3), communications (2), etc. Works were
     conducted in the following districts: City Tbilisi (microprojects: 73 - completed); Achara (10);
     Guria (22); Imereti: (55); Kakheti (36); Conflict zone (16); Mtskheta-Mtianeti (33); Racha-
     Lechkhumi (17); Samegrelo-zemo Svaneti (27); Samtskhe-Javakheti (47); Kvemo Kartli (33);
     Shida Kartli (6).

Part B: Institutional Support for the GSIF
  · Strengthening of the Fund's operational capacity through: Provision of training and technical
     assistance to the Fund's staff in areas of financial planning, management, participatory
     community development, institutional analysis, contracting and bidding procedures, and project
     supervision; Provision of equipment and vehicles; and Carrying out of technical, managerial
     and financial audit. The Supervisory Board (SB) sessions were conducted as planned. The donor
     supervisory missions were regularly held, as well as the planned international audit while the
     local Palace of the Chambers was controlling the projects. The MDFG works in its regular
     publications in Georgian and English languages. The MDFG continued the cooperation with the
     mass media representatives, updated regularly the Internet Webpage and, nowadays, proper
     information may be checked at the following e-address: www.mdf.org.ge (which used to be
     www.gsif.ge). All bid announcements were transparently placed on the MDFG web page and
     advertized in local/international newspapers. The MDFG staff registered videos of working
     meetings in cities and districts. During the reported period, the video archives were being updated
     and arranged. During the reported period, the IT department performed various development
     activities for reports and similar subjects. In the reported period, the MDFG used to conduct
     different consultation meetings/seminars/trainings with the various line ministries, local and
     international organizations. The GSIF Beneficiaries Impact Assessment revealed some
     problematic issues , which were determined during the preparation of the GSIF II Project; these
     needed to be addressed in order to: ensure more involvement of the population in the Project
     implementation process; activate training and community mobilization activities (community
     contribution collection, facility monitoring, implementation of sustainability plans and
     specification of responsible units); maximally utilize the potential of international and local
     partner organizations oriented for community mobilization activities; reduce the community
     contribution (from 16% to 10%), which facilitated poor communities to receive several benefits
     from the GSIF projects; present the community contribution in cash or in-kind (i.e. equipment,
     materials, labor, transport, etc.); mobilize community contributions and shortages of government
     funds; strengthen the cooperation with the local self-governance.

Part C: Support to Small Contractors and Communities
  · Provision of technical assistance and training to small construction firms to increase their
     technical and managerial capacity; Provision of training and technical assistance to personnel of
     local   governments,    non-governmental      organizations,    communities    and   Micro-projects
     Committees in community participation, conducting competitive bidding, preparing contracts,
     and monitoring work progress. From the GSIF outputs, it is worth mentioning that during the



                                                  38

        Project, external and local resources for financing the infrastructures were attracted, more
        specifically, up to USD 1, 5 mn were mobilised from the local community. The community
        contribution was an 18% average.         The total number of beneficiaries of the GSIF Project
        exceeded 1, 2 mn, which is 1/3 of the total population of Georgia; more than 14,000 persons were
        employed in the construction process. We should also mention that the local economic activities
        increased and developed; competitive processes in private sector were motivated and the
        supervision skills in works at the local level, improved; as a result of the GSIF activities, the
        demand of local labour force, materials, contractors and suppliers increased (the total share of
        labour force employed in the micro-projects was 30%). In order to stimulate the competitive
        environment and facilitate activities of private companies, more than 350 biddings were
        announced, and more than 600 local contractors took part in the process. More than 1000
        community meetings were conducted, where over 70,000 community members participated.
        Among the participants, over 30,000 were women and 400 were representatives of the local
        authority.

Part D: Support for Monitoring of Living Conditions
    · Carrying out of a survey of about 3,5000 households throughout Georgia and training of staff of
        SDS. The State Department for Statistics undertook a household survey in Georgia with GSIF
        assistance; the survey included 3,350 households per year (from 1999 to 2001 in each quarter).

c. Rehabilitation Project of the education facilities damaged during the Tbilisi earthquake on
April 25, 2002 (continuation of the GSIF I Project) (SUPPLEMETAL CREDIT #IDA 3020-1
GE)


    The negotiations on rehabilitation project of the education facilities (Secondary Schools) damaged
during the Tbilisi earthquake on April 25, 2002, were conducted with the World Bank in February, 2003.
        The following project components have been implemented:

Component 1:
    · Microprojects in Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructures but focusing on the rehabilitation
        of educational facilities in Tbilisi damaged by the April 25, 2002 earthquake. A list of priority
        education facilities was agreed between the government of Georgia and the World Bank The
        government of Georgia (particularly the Construction and Education Ministries, the City Hall in
        Tbilisi Merya) presented the list of institutions damaged during the earthquake along with the
        approximate costs ( a total of 127 secondary schools and nursery kindergartens) including their
        renewal/reinforcement works. According to the World Bank suggestions, the engineers in the
        Fund studied all the facilities in the area and collected the relevant information for each of them.
        The World Bank together with the government of Georgia studied the buildings damaged during
        the earthquake and elaborated the following ranking criteria: 1. the damage of the building
        exceeds the 2nd degree; 2. the area of the building is not rented by the other private structure; 3.
        no other organizations have conducted any rehabilitation works after the earthquake; 4. the school
        is 70% or more occupied (the real number of pupils compared to the foreseen number). The
        priority schools were selected according to the agreed ranging criteria which were finally agreed
        during the negotiations of February, 2003, between the government of Georgia and the World
        Bank. According to the city Tbilisi Merya (City Hall) Decision of June 7, 2004, a Commission
        was formed which included various organizations (the Tbilisi Merya Education City Service,
        GSIF, the Tbilisi Merya Architecture and Perspective Development City Service, the Education
        System Reorganization and Strengthening Project's Education , the Politics and Strategy Group of
        Education and the Science Ministry of Georgia). According to the Decision of the Merya City



                                                     39

        Hall, the Commission visited, under the envisaged terms, the education facilities damaged during
        the earthquake of both the priority and additional lists. The final conclusions of the Commission
        (over a selection of 26 schools) were summarized and sent to the Finance Ministry and got finally
        agreed upon with the World Bank.

Component 2:
    · Institutional Support for the GSIF to carry out implementation.            The re-enforcement of the
        damaged infrastructures would upgrade these educational facilities to enable them to withstand
        an earthquake of at least similar magnitude and to meet the existing norms and standards. In
        order to protect the investment, the rehabilitation works also envisaged and included mitigating
        the endemic drainage problems of most of the targeted facilities. Due to the agreed procedures,
        the activity of the project included the corresponding cycle: the first project design bidding began
        in June, 2003; then the first construction bidding took place in May, 2004, and the
        implementation of the first construction bidding took place in August 2004; the works of the first
        rehabilitated facility (#60 Secondary School) finished in February, 2005. The rehabilitation plan
        of schools was prepared in such a way as not to disturb the teaching process schedule and the
        works were conducted during holidays. The schools prepared corresponding plans for evacuation
        of pupils, if the repairing works coincided with the teaching process. The Contract with the first
        Contractor had been suspended for several schools, as the Contractor had not observed the
        obligations stipulated under the Contract; a second construction bidding was announced and new
        contractors were selected thus, presently, the civil works are completed by these new contractors.
        The rehabilitation works are now completed for 22 facilities. The facilities throughout the city are
        spread as follows: Isani-Samgori District-9 schools, Mtatsminda-Krtsanisi District- 1 school,
        Didube-Chugureti District - 3 schools, Vake -Saburtalo District - 5 Schools, Gldani-Nadzaladevi
        District- 4 schools. The main activities of rehabilitation works of the schools damaged by the
        earthquake include: school building strengthening; water works to avoid its penetration in the
        building foundation and works monitoring ; repairs of school roofs and constructions; inner and
        outer water supply-sewerage system regulation with the overall restoration of sanitary points;
        school façade repairing (plastering, painting); inner heating system repairs; glass woks;
        replacement of damaged windows and doors for part of the building, repairs of existing stairs and
        the staircase platform; works on foundation re-inforcement , etc. Designed materials were
        elaborated for each facility, individually. According to the implementation plan, the number of
        schools needing rehabilitation works under the project was identified on the third stage of the
        project works, due to the remaining (after the first and the second credits) credit funds. Today, the
        activities for all three stages of project works are over.

III.    Bank and Borrower performance

            a. Bank
    IDA's supervision missions visited Georgia regularly (quarterly or twice a year) to assess progress in
    the implementation of the project; the supervision team always acted diligently to smoothen out
    implementation problems; it presented timely the supervision reports. However, in some cases, the
    No-Objections for the PIU requests were delayed due to objective reasons. Based on the above, the
    Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory.

            b. Borrower
    The Borrower was actively engaged in project preparation and contributed to shape up the
    physical component of the project. The government was always open to discussions with IDA on
    various issues. The temporary delays in co-financing was improved, accordingly. Based on the above,
    the Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.



                                                      40

           c. Implementing Agency
   The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the staff were following the agreed procedures, the
   project implementation plan, and supervision missions' recommendations. Due to objective reasons,
   after agreement between the government and IDA, the project closing date has been extended. Based
   on the above, the Fund's performance is rated as satisfactory.

IV.    Lessons Learned

   The design and implementation of the project offers the following considerations that might be useful
   in shaping future projects of this nature. The experience under the first project, including the findings
   of World Bank supervision missions, beneficiary assessments conducted by GSIF staff and external
   consultants, etc. are valuable.
   · Sustainable community development requires engagement by community members as well as by
       local governments (participation), the services provided by external agencies have to be relevant,
       the output has to be satisfactory, and adequate operations and maintenance arrangements need to
       be in place. Community participation requires intensive interaction between the PIU, the
       participating community and the local authority before, during and for some time after project
       implementation.
   · Under GSIF I, the average size of micro-projects was relatively high. This proved awkward for a
       number of reasons: in many instances poor communities found it difficult to mobilize the
       necessary counterpart resources for larger projects; larger projects exceeding the capabilities of
       poor communities must have not often been appropriate or cost-effective for the community;
   · Difficulties to mobilize community contributions and shortages of government funds, essentially
       to meet tax requirements, affected adversely the performance under GSIF I. These issues would
       be addressed under the new project ­ by means of strengthening ownership. Moreover, the
       community counterpart contribution would need to be reduced.
   · The contractors would need to follow strictly the agreed contract obligations (as described, in
       several cases the contracts with the contractors were cancelled, the agreed implementation plan
       was not followed, etc. and a new contractor had to be hired for completing the project
       implementation) and the beneficiaries would need to follow the recommendations from the PIU
       (in several cases the school staff were not helpful in project implementation processes, more
       specifically they did not maintain the facility after hand-over, etc.).




                                                     41

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                       42

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Project Appraisal Document for Georgia Social Investment Fund, dated November 11, 1997
     (Report No.17144-GE
2.   Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for Georgia, dated September 22, 1997
     (Report No. 17000-GE
3.   Project Operational Manual, December 1997
4.   Project Progress Reports prepared by GSIF
5.   Bank Supervision Reports (Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports and
     Implementation Status Reports)
6.   Mid-Term Review Report, dated May 2001
7.   Social Study of Georgian Social Investment Fund Micro-Projects (example of Khashuri region),
     Institute of Demography and Sociology, Tbilisi, 2000
8.   Social Study of Georgian Social Investment Fund Micro-Projects, Association "MDGRADI
     GANVITAREBA", Tbilisi, 2000
9.   Impact Assessment of Georgian Social Investment Fund, Institute of Pooling and Marketing
     (IPM), Tbilisi, 2000
10.  Poverty Monitoring in Georgia, State Department for Statistics of Georgia, Tbilisi, 2002
11.  Impact Assessment for Social Investment Fund in Georgia, Georgian Opinion Research Business
     International (GORBI), Tbilisi, 2003
12.  Methodology for the Evaluation of Sustainability of the Facilities Rehabilitated by the GSFI,
     Georgian Opinion Research Business International (GORBI), Tbilisi, 2003
13. Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note on the Economic and Poverty Reduction Program of Georgia,
     Annual Progress Report, June 2005.
14.  Country Partnership Strategy for Georgia, dated October 2005, (Report No. 33295-GE)




                                               43

MAP SECTION




    44

