Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAI. USE ONIY
Report No. 9388
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
(1051-KE)
MARCH 1, 1991
Agriculture Operations
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units       =    henyan Shillings
US$1                 =    KSh. 7.5  (at appraisal)
US$1                 =    KSh. 16.5 (at completion)
ABBREVIATIONS
CPA       Central Project Authority
GOK       Government of Kenya
LBDA      Lake Basin Development Authority
MENR      Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MOTW      Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OmCIAL US ONLi
Waihingtonf DC 20433
USA
ON4.*c of Ditector-G.41
Opratwons IvaluatHin
March 1, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Kenya Fisheries
Proiect (Credit 1051-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Kenya - Fisheries Project (Credit 1051-KE)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT (CR. 1051-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                                                                              i
Evaluation Summary                                                                 iii
PART I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Project Identity - Other information .  . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Background   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
Sector Policy Context ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
Sector Developmn'at Strategy .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Linkages between Project Objectives and Sector
Policies and Strategies .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Project Objectives and Components .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Objectives   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Project Preparation, Design and Organization .  . . . . . . .    2
Project Implementation .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Project Results ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
Project Sustainability .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Bank Performance   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
Borrower Performance   .9...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
Project Relationships .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Consulting Services .........                   ...     ..  ...    ...     .    10
PART II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE. . . . . . . . . . . 11
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Execution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Establishment of Project Unit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Disagreement on Procurement ......  .                ..  .  .  ..  .  ..    . 12
Government's Comments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................... . 19
Related Bank Loans and Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Credit Disbursements ........  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..                        .   21
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Status of Covenants  .........                   ...    ..   ...    ...    . 29
Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
This document has arestricted distribution and may be used byrecipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT (CREDIT 1051-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fisheries
Project in Kenya, for which Credit 1051-KE in the amount of US$ 10.0
million was approved in June 1980. The Credit was closed as scheduled on
September 30, 1987. Little of the Credit was disbursed (only 2.3Z) and the
last disbursement was in September 1987.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Section of the Bank's
Regional Mission in East Africa (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in May 1989 and is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Credit Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
discussions with the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 1051-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives (Part I, p ra.5)
1.        The Project was appraised within the context of the Fourth Five-
Year Development Plan, 1979-83 which included maximizirn- fish production,
so that per capita fish consumption would increase from 3.1 kg per capita
(1976) to 3.4 kg per capita by 1983. Government's strategy to do this
included the development of artisanal fisheries (Part I paras. 2 and 3).
The principal objective of the Project was to increase fishermen's incomes
by increasing marketed fish production through reductions in post harvest
losses and through the improvements in fishing craft and gear. Fish
farming was also to be encouraged. The main components (total cost US$
14.9 million) to achieve this were: (i) development, expansion and
upgrading of shore facilities for fish landing, storage and preservation
(US 3.1 million), (ii) provision of fishing craft and gear to fishermen
(US$ 1.1 million), (iii) establishment of a Fish Farming Development Centre
(US$ 1.6 million), (iv) training, research and studies (US$ 4.0 million),
and (v) management, monitoring and evaluation (USS 1.3 million).
Project Preparation and Design (Part I, paras. 7 and 8)
2.        Project preparation was difficult, hampered by an inadequate
data base. The original emphasis in preparation was towards the integrated
development of freshwater and coastal fisheries resulting in proposals for
investments in large motorized fishing boats. The appraisal mission shifted
the emphasis towards artisanal fishermen and limited the Project area to
Lake Victoria and the coastline along Mombasa. To implement the project, a
Central Project Authority was established in the Fisheries Department.
Implementation Experience (Part I paras. 12-20)
3.        Effectiveness was obtained relatively quickly - 3 months after
signing. Despite this, by mid-1982, understaffing and the complexity of
Project design contr ')uted to a two-year delay in start-up of the Project.
The Bank therefore decided to modify the scope, phasing and staffing of the
Project. In particular, the Shore Facilities Component and the Boat
Building Component were simplified.
4.        Three and one-half years into the Project it was facing major
problems; the Bank met to decide whether or not to cancel the Credit, but
chose not to at this point. A year later, major problems remained so the
Bank and the Government put together a detailed program of activities for
each component. At this time the Bank also scaled back the Fish Farming
Component and a U.N. agency was employed to carry out the work. A Project
Z.eview held in April of 1985 again brought up the topic of cancellation.
In the end, the Government agreed to accept cancellation of the US$3.5
million Shore Facilities Con;ponent. This was based on the failure of the
Government to select an acceptable consultant to conduct the ice plant
operational assessment study within the time frame agreed to earlier by the
Bank and the GOK.
5.        Progress on design of the Fish Farming Center was interrupted
when the consultant was recalled by his Government. His replacement was



- iv -
Project Results (Part I para. 21)
6.        The Project achieved few of its objectives as reflected in the
disbursement of the Credit (US$0.2' million disbursed over 7 years vs. the
approved Credit of US$ 10 million). The Shore Facilities Component was
cancelled and the Fish Farming Development Center was stalled at the design
phase. The Boat Building Component had the most success -- though sailboat
conversion did not take place and motorsailers were lying idle due to non-
availability of inboard engines. Thirty traditional fishing boats were
constructed, and 2 fishing boat prototypes were introduced which
substantially improve catches and for which there was a strong demand. The
Training Component was dependent upon the progress of the other components
and therefore much of this was made unnecessary.
Project Sustainability (Part i para. 22)
7.        The sustainability of the one successful component, Boat
Building, was uncertain at the end of the project. The Government boatyard
producing the new prototypes was lagging considerably behind demand, due
largely to budgetary constraints. The subsequent IFAD-financed Kwale and
Kilifi District Development Project includes the provision of funds to the
boatyard for the construction of up to 18 boats a year. Cost recovery
measures would be introduced to make the enterprise self-sustaining.
Findings and Lessons Learned (Part I paras. 25 and 28)
8.        The complexity of Project design contributed to its failure.
Though Bank supervision missions attempted to simplify and scale it down,
the lack of commitment on the part of the Government, and weaknesses in the
Project Unit (including understaffing and unqualified personnel) meant that
the Project was never properly implemented. Because the Project was
faltering, senior Bank personnel determined it was better to cut back on
resources in terms of supervision missions. Further, an evolving
agricultural strategy within the framework of structural adjustment gave
less weight to investment in fisheries.
9.        In summary, the lessons learned were as follows:
(a) Projects in which the Bank has little or no experience should be
relatively simple and within the implementation capacity of the
Borrower's institutions;
(b) proper incentives need to be provided in order to attract
qualified staff to the Project Unit;
(c) where Project management is known to be weak, management
assistance should be built into Project design;
(d) for problem projects, supervision missions need to be conducted
frequently and with adequate and technically qualified staff; and
(e) adequate budgetary allocations should be provided by the
Government.



KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 1051-KE)
Project Completion Report
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Project Identity - Other Information
1.          Responsible Unit - Country Department II, Africa Region
Sector            - Fisheries
II. Background
2.          Sector Policy Context. Government policy in this sector as
indicated in the fisheries chapter of the Fourth Five Year Development
Plan (1979-83), was to maximize fish production from all available
resources in the country. At the same time research was to be
undertaken and conservation measures instituted to prevent depletion of
fish beds. In the Plan Government was aiming to increase the per capita
consumption of fish from the level of 3.1 kg. per capita (1976) to about
3.4 kg. per capita by 1983; total landing targets for 1983 had been set
at 59,000 metric tons (48,000 tons from freshwater and 11,000 tons from
marine sources), more than double the volume that had been recorded in
1976 but well below the estimated potential annual yield of 150,000
metric tons.
3.          Sector Development Strategy.  Government's basic strategy
within the policy context outlined above was to develop a modern deep
water fleet, while at the same time providing for the longer term
development of artisanal fisheries through the introduction of modern
techniques and facilities. Government had also recognized the
considerable scope for development of fish farming and proposed to
increase the land area under fish farming.
4.          Linkages between Project Objectives and Sector Policies and
Strategies. Assistance under the project was aimed at helping to
overcome some of the constraints in the fisheries sector. However, it
was decided at appraisal that the emphasis of the project would be on
assisting artisanal fishermen, both at the Coast and on Lake Victoria
and not on Government policies aimed at the development of a modern deep
water fleet. It was also felt that there was considerable potential to
assist fish farms which numbered some 9,000 in total but which for the
most part had been abandoned for lack of technical knowledge and proper
extension services.



- 2 -
III. Prolect Objectives and Components
5.          Project Objectives.  The principal objective of the project
was to increase fishermen's incomes. £he strategy was to reduce post
harvest losses and improve fish quality by providing storage and
preservation facilities. Fishermen's cooperatives were to be encouraged
to take over these facilities at a later stage. Improved fishing craft
and gear were also to be provided to enable fishermen to increaFe
catches and productivity. A proposed Fish Farming Development Center
aimed at increasing marketed fish production, and training in boat
building, fish farming and fishing methods, as well as specialized
fields such as aquaculture were to be carried out under the project.
Research, studies and project management were also provided.
6.          Project Components.  The project was to be carried out over
about six years and consisted of the following components (at a total
cost of US$14.9 million):
a.    development, expansion and upgrading of shore facillties for
fish landing, storage, preservation and marketing (US$3.1
millionl/);
b.    provision of fishing craft and gear to fishermen (US$1.1
million);
c.    establishment of a Fish Farming Development Center (US$1.6
million);
d.    training, research and studies (US$4.0 million); and
e.    management, monitoring and evaluation (US$1.3 million).
IV. Project Preparation, Design and Organization
7.          Project preparation was difficult and lengthy.  The idea of
a fisheries project in Kenya was first discussed by the World Bank in
March 1976, but missions in May and June of that year concluded that the
database was completely inadequate. It was not until July 1977 that an
FAO Cooperative Program Reconnaissance Mission felt it was able to
identify the priorities and outline the needed investments in fisheries.
However, the information base was still inadequate for detailed
preparation. Following successful requests for the collection of
further data, project preparation was undertaken by FAO/CP in April/May
1978. The emphasis in the Preparation Report (dated October 1978) was
on the integrated development of freshwater and coastal fisheries. This
resulted primarily in proposals for investments in larger motorized
fishing boats (subsequently rejected by the appraisal mission).
However, many of the other project preparation proposals concerning fish
1/ Costs by component are shown excluding contingencies.



farming and shore facilities were subsequently taken up by the appraisal
mission.
8.          The appraisal mission, as outlined above, shifted the
emphasis of the project towards artisanal fishermen and also limited the
project area to the Kenyan part of Lake Victoria for the development of
freshwater fisheries, and to the productive stretch of the coastline
along Mombasa for marine fisheries. An issue addressed both at
preparation and at appraisal was the institutional arrangement- for
Project preparation and management. It was recognized early on that the
Fisheries Department2/ would need assistance if it was to take the
lead in implementing the project; and that any project implementing
unit would need some autonomy from the day to day running of the
Department if it was to manage the Project successfully. Consequently
it was proposed that a Project Unit (originally called the Central
Project Authority or CPA) be set up in the Fisheries Department. The
Unit was to be run by a Project Manager reporting to the Permanent
Secretary in the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR).
However, no technical assistance was provided to directly assist Project
management; those positions provided for under the Project were to carry
out technical duties.
9.          The complexity of the Project was a major flaw.  This was
reflected in: (i) the need to coordinate several ministries and
agencies; (ii) the large number of cooperatives involved; and (iii) the
complexity of project concepts where three of the main components were
experimental in nature (shore facilities which sought to introduce the
greater use of ice in the fish marketing system; boat building which
aimed to improve construction methods for the traditional boat building
industry, to test new prototypes of fishing boats and to assist in
motorizing the more progressive elements of the artisanal fishermen's
fleet; and the Fish Farming Production and Research Center which aimed
to test the commercial viability of several different fish farming
systems).
10.         Project management was also a factor in the failure of this
project. The main reasons for weak management were: First, project
designers did not incorporate adequate incentives (in the form of
offering senior staff positions with commensurate salaries) to attract
appropriately qualified people from other government agencies to the
Project Unit. Second, the Project Manager was not afforded enough
authority to perform his duties.
11.         In retrospect, the project would have been more successful
if (i) the design had been simpler, and (ii) more consideration had been
given to the management structure of the Project Unit (in the form of
providing it senior staff positions, as well as technical assistance,
2/ Initially under the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(MENR) but transferred to the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife (MOTW)
during the implementation period. It is now under the Ministry of
Regional Development.



justified on the grounis that thia was the first major fisheries project
the department had undertaken).
V. Project Implementation
12.         Effectiveness was accomplished in a relatively short time
for a Kenyan Project - less than 3 months after signing. Initial
activities were aimed at staffing the Project Unit and resolving
potential financing overlaps with a Kenyan/Nordic Fish Project then
being negotiated.
13.         By mid-1982, the Bank observed that under-staffing and
Project complexity had contributed to a two-year delay in start-up of
the Project. The Bank supervision mission therefore decided to redesign
the Project, modifying its scope, phasing and staffing. The- were
three major areas. First, the Bank recommended that certain posts be
regraded and/or redefined, in order to improve staffing of the Project.
14.         Second, it recommended that the Shore Facilities component
be scaled down and rephased. The rapidly evolving structure of fish
msrketing in Kenya and the continued disorganization and weaknesses of
the cooperative sector had called into question assumptions made at the
time of Project design. Therefore, the Bank decided to eliminate five
of the ice plants and four chillrooms appraised as well as eleven
fishing centers and eleven fishiig stations. This component would then
be phased in with an initial assessment study (conducted by a
consultant) of the viability and capacity of two small ice plants and
cold storage facilities3/ followed by a two-year pilot period testing
the commercial demand for ice and iced fish.
15.         Third, the Bank mission modified the Boat Building
component. The SAR had providecd for 50 motor-sailing and 25 traditional
fishing boats to be constructed, and for 15 sailboats to be converted to
motorized boats. However, the rising cost of fuel, the uncertainty over
the existing fish stock and other factors cast doubt on the economic
viability of the boats as originally provided in the SAR. The mission
therefore suggested the component be redefined. It recommended
recruitment of a second boat-building expert (one for the Coast area and
one for the Lake area) who would assess the needs of traditional boat-
builders and determine the most appropriate design for the new
prototypes to be built and tested under the Project. The additional
expert would also review the potential for commercial viability for
motorized conversions of traditional sailing boats (which had been
challenged by NORDIC Advisors).
3/ A study was deemed necessary because there was a lack of sufficient
data on the volume and marketing margins available in the existing
distribution system, and the capability of fishing cooperatives to
engage efficiently in marketing operations was uncertain.



- 5 -
16.         Subsequently, the uncertainty of GOK budget allocations
temporarily suspended Project activities.  When the allocation was
finally set out, it was less than needed and led to a scaling down of
Project activities for the year (1983).
17.         In early 1984, a supervision mission discussed the question
of whether the Project should be canceled, given its supervision demands
and the ma.jor implementation delays to that point. The Bank decided
that it would be difficult to cancel the project at this moment, due to
tle Government's acceptance of major design changes and the possibility
that the pilot activities (specifically, the studies for the Shore
Facilities and Boat Building Components) to be financed might help the
Fisheries Department redirect their efforts along productive lines.
18.         By late 1984, the Project was rated as facing major
problems. This prompted a Bank mission in February of 1985, to hold
discussions with the Government authorities regarding how to proceed.
At this time the Bank, together with the Project Unit, put together a
detailed program of activities for each Project component covering the
period March 1985-June 1986. The mission and the Permanent Secretary of
the MOTW agreed that if the deadlines were not met, or if there were
significant slippages in the rest of the work program, affected
components would be canceled. At this time, the Bank also recommended
further scaling down the Project, in particular, the Fish Farming
component. The appraisal report called for construction of about 65
hectares of fish ponds plus administrative buildings and training
facilities to be operated on a commercial basis. Selection of an
appropriate site and its acquisition were the original cause of delays
and selection of consultants to design, construct and manage the center
was also very lengthy. Once the consultants' proposals were submitted,
it became clear that an operation of this size and complexity could not
possibly be commercially viable. Also, a number of technical issues
were raised. The Batik therefore recommended that the Aquaculture Center
be reduced to a total of about 20-25 hectares with emphasis on research
and training aimed at small sized fish farms in the area.  The
Government then invited a U.N. agency to design the Center (under the
Project) and assume lead responsibility for its management during the
initial years of operation.
19.          A Project Review meeting was held in April of 1985.  Bank
personnel again discussed whether it would be advisable to cancel the
Credit.  The participants decided that it was unlikely the Government
would agree to cancellation of the entire Credit. They suggested
proposing cancellation of only the Shore Facilities Component based on
its failure to meet the deadline for selection of a consultant to
perform the ice plant operational assessment study. (The problem here
was related to a disagreement between the Bank and the Government over
who should conduct the study; the Government selected the fourth-rated
bidder who did not even meet the minimum technical qualifications and
therefore was unacceptable to the Bank. The February mission mentioned
above had set out March 20, 1985 as the latest date at which the
contract could be awarded and still have time to complete the studies
and build the ice plants by the end of the Project.) The Government



- 6 -
then agreed to the US$3.5 million cancellation for the Shore Facilities
Component.
20.         Progress on the Aquaculture Center (Fish Farming Component)
was proceeding, albeit with considerable delays, until early 1986, when
the consultant assisting in the design of the Center and its programs
was recalled by his government. His replacement, who was designated
eight months later, was unable to pick up the design work because the
earlier consultant had not left sufficient drawings from which to
resumie. In October, 1986, the Bank outlined conditions to be met for
completion of the Center before it would consider extending the Closing
Date of the Project. Due in large part to delays in re-staffing for the
component and the fact that the original designs for the Center were
never returned to Kenya, these conditions were not met, and the Project
was closed September 30, 1987, as set out at appraisal.
VI. Project Results
21.         The Project achieved very few of its objectives and its rate
of return is zero or negative compared to an appraisal estimate of 16Z.
The majority of the Credit, US$9.78, was canceled; total disbursement
reached only US$0.23 million and was mostly for technical assistance
and operating costs. Results by component are detailed below.
a.    The Shore Facilities Component was completely
canceled, as noted above, due to the inability of the
Project Unit to offer an acceptable consultant to
conduct the ice plant operational assessment study.
b.    The Boat Building Component was the most successful.
This Component included four sub-components. On the
negative side, for various technical reasons the
Project did not attempt sailboat conversion and
motorsailers constructed were not being used due to
non-availability of inboard engines. On the positive
side, by Project end, 30 traditional sailboats had
been constructed, five in excess of the target. These
were in use and proving beneficial to their owners,
although not all were being *sed for fishing (some
former fishermen were employing them for
transportation of tourists). A limited survey
revealed that, of those owning fishing boats, almost
half were not fishing themselves but were hiring out
the boats to other fishermen. Finally, the Project
designed, tested and then introduced prototypes for 2
fishing boats which substantially improve the catches
by traditional fishermen and which are within the
limits of their financial means and skill levels.
These proved to be very popular and generated
substantial interest among coast area fishermen.
Though the price of the boats was increased from 50S
of the total cost to cover 100% of the total cost (not



including a profit margin) the demand remained strong
due to the fact that the now boats helped the
fishermen to increase their catches by 300-4002.
c.    The Fish Farming Development Center (Aquaculture
Center) Component was stalled at the design phase, in
large part due to unexpected recall of the key expert
by his government.
d.    Training and research were accorded an important role
in the Project (constituting 36Z of Project costs) and
this Component realized several of its objectives.
Regarding Training: According to the appraisal report
the project unit was to train (i) boatbuilders, (ii)
fish farmers, (c) project staff, (d) fishermen and (e)
management staff of fishermen's cooperatives, and was
obviously dependent on the progress of the other
components. The result of training activities was: (a)
Boatbuilders did receive training, though the trainees
were not able to utilize their skills (see
sustainability below); (b) Since the Aquaculture
Center was never constructed, fish farmers were not
trained; (c) Training opportunities for project
personnel were never utilized; (d) Training for
fishermen under the director of the Department of
Fisheries was slow; and (e) Training of fishermen's
cooperatives' committee members encountered problems
primarily due to very rapid turn-over of committee
members. In the end, the Project Unit suspended
training here due to underlying problems not related
to the Project. Regarding research, the Lake Basin
Development Authority (LBDA) in cooperation with the
FAO, successfully carried out a survey of fish ponds
in the Lake Basin area. As a result of this study,
about 2,000 fish ponds were selected and were being
rehabilitated under a UNDP/FAO funded project.
VII. Project Sustainability
22.         Of all Project Components, the Boat Building Component has
the only chance of sustainability. However, at Project completion,
production at the Government's boatyard in Mombasa was limited to three
per year due to (a) significant deficiencies in budgetary allocations by
Government (the boatyard depends on annual allocations to continue its
work) and (b) cumbersome Government tendering procedures for
construction materials. Further, those trained to build boats by the
Project were not doing this because of (a) lack of start-up capital, (b)
lack of management know-how, (c) unwillingness of financial institutions
to extend credit in the absence of collateral, and (d) lack of
employment opportunities. The operations of the Mombasa boatyard,
however, are being sustained and expanded under a subsequent project
financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the



- 8 -
Kwale and Kilifi District Development Project. The objective is to
expand construction to up to 18 boats a year by the end of the Project.
The project aims at full cost recovery so that the enterprise could
become self-sustaining. The expansion would also mean greater
employment opportunities for the boatbuilders trained under the Project.
VIII. Bank Performance
23.         Project preparation was adequate and a reasonable basis for
appraisal. The appraisal team was well balanced in terms of skills. It
recognized that the project was covering a new sector in terms of Bank
involvement and experience, and hence had extended the completion of the
Project to six years. However, it over-estimated the Government's
commitment and the capacity and capability of its institutions to carry
out the project as appraised. The thrust of the Project towards
artisanal fishermen located at both the Coast and Lake Victoria as a
group with low incomes was undoubtedly correct. Furthermore, it was
sensible to drop the deep water fleet component proposed at Project
preparation. Still, in its amended form the Project was too complex and
depended upon too many disparate ministries and agencies to succeed.
Given the experimental nature of the main components, greater care
should have been given to their feasibility.
24.         Throughout the Project, Bank supervision missions attempted
to simplify and streamline it. As time passed, management within the
Project Unit failed to take the lead in implementing these changes.
Since the Project was faltering, senior Bank staff started to look for
ways to (a) minimize the financial risk to the Government (by
encouraging its scaling down and cancellation of unfeasible components)
and (b) to maximize the impact of Bank staff (by concentrating their
time on the more promising projects in the country). Thus, instead of
sending full supervision teams each time, one or two members of the Bank
staff would make short visits between full supervisions, to evaluate
project progress and to "prod" the Project Unit along. Most of the
missions did not include fisheries specialists of the type necessary to
assist in Project implementation.
25.         Lessons learned are as follows:
(a) Projects in sectors in which the Bank has little or no
experience should be relatively simple;
(b) where the Project management comes from a known weak
organization, management assistance should be included in Project
design;
(c) supervision missions should contain skills relevant to the
sector; and
(d) the use of separate Project units should be avoided under
normal circumstances; however, projects with experimental



components may benefit from the periodic review of panels of
experts built into the budget design and cost.
IX. Borrower Performance
26.         Institutional and personnel changes in the implementing
agency posed problems. Frequent changes in the Permanent Secretary in
the MENR (the key ministry in the Project/country link) meant there was
no follow-up from this end in the Project. Subsequently, the Department
of Fisheries was moved from the MENR to the Ministry of Tourism, where
it had no advocates.
27.         There were many staffing problems due to the low salaries
and low administrative status of the project positions. Hence, there
was a high staff turnover in the Project Unit, as well as many unfilled
positions, and underqualified personnel. Often, the Project Director
only devoted half of his work-time to the Project, and was involved in
other Fisheries work as well. In addition, there was a low level of
disbursements due not only to the slow implementation of the Project,
but mainly to the poor accounting department in the Project Unit.
28.         Finally, insufficient budgetary allocations became an
increasing problem over the Project period. In fact, Project activities
were suspended for a lengthy period in 1983 due to the uncertainty of
Government budget allocations, and when these were finally set out, it
was necessary to scale down Project activities.
Lessons learned are as follows:
(a) A strong, competent management team should be appointed,
which, if necessary, can be strengthened through technical
assistance; this should include a competent accountant;
(b) the country should ensure that adequate incentives (such as
career advancement opportunities and proper salaries) are given to
such staff; if this is not feasible, subcontracting to the private
sector should be considered where appropriate; and
(c) management must be given the proper authority to perform its
duties as well as provided with adequate budgetary allocations;
X. Project Relationships
29.         Despite the serious implementation difficulties the
Bank/Borrower relationship was generally good. The Ministry of Finance
(Government signatory to the Legal Agreement) cooperated in what was for
them the most difficult part of the project -- cancellation of that
portion of the credit financing the main component, and agreement on not
extending the credit. There is however lingering resentment on the part
of the project management with regards to: (i) the performance of the
technical assistance which is perceived as responsible for the delays in
the detailed designs and specifications of the Fish Farming Center, and



- 10
the resulting cancellation of the component; and (ii) the World Bank
where it was felt there was a lack of support to project management in
its attempts to extend the closing date of the credit.
XI. Project Documentation and Data
30.         The Legal Agreement and SAR proved adequate for the project.
Data for preparation of the PCR proved adequate although it has been
difficult to determine time spent by Bank staff on the newly formatted
Form 590. Document retention and presentation of files were
satisfactory for the completion of the PCR.
XII. Consulting Services
31.         There were two consulting services provided to the Project.
The boat building specialist performed well under difficult
circumstances. However, in the case of the Fish Farming Center, the
consultant who prepared the detailed designs and specifications of the
Center was recalled to his home country. He was remiss in failing to
leave with the Project all of his design work.  When a consultant was
finally found to replace him, he was left with insufficient drawings
from which to complete the design work, which seriously impeded
completion of this component. Lesson learned: consultant contracts
under UN Agencies should contain language protecting the Borrower
against non-performance, just as under private sector contracts.



- 11 -
PhI?s  MM=3C  3KV?IV 4RCK 5203W0 IisPuCTM
1.  INYCPrIO
1.1   On 14th July, 1980, Kenya Government and International
Development Association signed a Development Agreement for
credit amounting to U,S. $10 million to support and finance
development of the fishing industry in Kenya. The credit
became effective on 15th October, 1980 and closed on 30th
September, 1987. The IDA credit together with funding
provision from the Kenya Government constituted the KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT: CREDIT NO. 1051-KE the total value of
which was U.S.$111,831,000 Vl equivalent.
1.2 The principal objective of the project was to increase
income levels of small scale fishermen and fish farmers by
(1) reducing post harvest losses through provision of better
preservation, storage distribution and marketing facilities,
(2) developing o;   oroving Lnstitutional marketing capabilities
of the fishermen by organizing them into viable co-operatives,
(3) supplying the fishermen wich more seaworthy vessels with
higher capture effeciency and capacity (4) constructing a
pilot commercial fish farm and thereon develop through
experiments commercial aquaculture husbandry techniques for
extension to farmers.
1.3 The project consisted of four main parts differentiated
by programe activities mentioned in paragraph 1.2 above.
These were Part A: Shore Facilities, Part B: Fiahtng Craft
and Gear, Part C: Fish Farming Development Centre, Part D:
Training, Research and Studies.
2. EXECUTION
2.1 The project suffered considerable execution delays.
The most important causes of delays in execution were,
(1) delay by the Governemnt to establish the Project Unit,
/1 According to the Staff Appraisal Report, total project cost is
estimated at US$14.9 million. The credit is US$lo million.



- 12 -
disagreement between the Government and the Bank on
procurement of consultants for the project (3) insufftcient
budgetary allocation (4) high staff turnover in the accounts
division of the project.
2.2 Establishment of Project Unit
2.21 Although the Credit Agreement was signed on 14th July,
1980 and became effective on 15th October, 1980,it was not
until 22nd May, 1981 that the Government institution
responsible for creation of posts for Government Service
(i.e. Directorate of Personnel Management) communicated
authority sanctioning establishment of posts for the project.
Since recruitment of personnel was a sequential action to
creation of posts, by the time the project personnel were
identified, appointed and took up their appointment, it was
September 1981 and at least twelve (12) months of project
execution period had lapsed before much could be done because
there were no personnel.
2.'22 The level at which most of the project posts were
established affected both quality and calibre of personnel
appointed in the Broject Unit.  Although the Credit
Agreement stipulated for appointment of experienced personnel
in the key positions of the Unit, most of the posts were
established at levels for appointment of fresh and
inexperienced college graduates entering the service.
Hence, the experienced personnel who were appointed in the
project did not stay long with the project because when they
got promotion they had to be posted away from the project.
2.3 Disagreement on Procurement of Consultants
2.31 Considerable execution time was lost in protracted
disagreement between the Government and the Bank on procurement
of consultants for Part A:  Shore Facilities and Part C:
Fish Farming Development Centre of the project. For a long
time, the Bank continuously rejected Government nomnuasions
for appointment as consultants to the project alleging that



- 1.3 -
the Government nominees lacked both qualification and
experience acceptable to the Bank for appointment as
consultants. Attached Appendix I gives chronology of
Government and Bank communications on appointment of
consultants for design of the fish farming centre. It is
evident from the chronology of communications between the
Bank and GoverTment that the position adopted by the Bank
severely impaired capability of the Government to execute
the project. 1/
2.32 Regarding the Shore Facilities (i.e. Part A of the
Project) members of Bank supervision team that visited
Kenya in May-June 1982 raised querries and doubts on the
necessity of the ice plants as earlier prescribed in both
appraisal report and Credit Agreement. Arising from the
doubts expressed by the supervision team, the Bank insisted
that the Government commission consultancy study to determine
viability of the proposed ice plants before procuring
contract for construction of the ice plantsl The Bank
made completton of the study a condition precedent to
ucilization of credit proceeds to finance const.ucti^n of
the ice plants. As in the case of Fish Farming Development centre
many    times the Bank rejected Government nominations for
the consultancy claiming Government nominees were not
qualified. Ultimately, the Bank refused to approve Government
nominee for the study on grounds that the Government  had
not selected the lowest evaluated bidder for award of
contract. Since completion of the study had been made a
mandatory condition precedent to using credit proceeds
to finance the Shore Facilities, it was not possible to use
the credit for constructing the shore facilities. Hence
U.S.$3.5 million allocated for construction of Shore
Facilities was cancelled from the credit.
1/   IDA's view was that the proposals wore comsmercially unviablo and contained a
number of technical issueos (Part I, paro. 18). IDA objections wore communicated
to GOK, which agreed to revise the terms of reference and reinvite proposals from
the *hortlisted firms. GOK then requested assistance from IDA to evoluate the
proposals. Tho supervision mission of January 1986 included an FAO fishery expert
for this purpose. Tho joint conclusion of the mission, the Project Unit and
Ministry of Tourism ond Wildlifo (MOTW) officials was that none of tho proposals
presented wero sufficiently realistic or appropriate to the conditions of fish
farming in Kenya to merit award of the contract. The mission alto reported that
the Fisheries Depertment and MOTW decided to request FAO to assist in implomenting
this part of the project. IDA gave no objection on grounds that FAO was olready
involved in two other squaculture projects in Kenya and had successfully carried
out similar rosearch and training projocts in other African countries.



-  j 4  -
APPENDIX I
COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA FISHERIES PROJECT: CREDIT NO. 1051-KE
CHRONOLOGY OF COMMUNICATION BETWEEN GOVERNMENT AND BANK ON
APPOINTMENT OF CONSULTANTS FOR THE FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT CENTRE
1.  28th June, 1982:    The Government submitted to the Bank for
approval the terms of reference specifving
tasks involved in design and operations
of Kabonyo; letter of request together with
a list of the ten firms the Government had
shortlisted for invitation to submit design
proposals.
2.  15th July, 1982:    Bank partially replies (to Government
letter of February) rejecting all except
two firms as not qualified to undertake
design works for Kabonyo.
3.  26th August, 1982:  Bank sends in second partial reply proposing
substantial revision and ammendment to
Government draft terms of reference.
4.  27th Sept. 1982:    Government resubmits to Bank revised terms
of reference incorporating Bank proposals.
Government also submits more information
on shortlisted firms and asks the Bank to
reconsider its rejection of the shortlist.
5.  19th October,1982:  Bank replies approving terms of reference
and firms acceptable to the Bank for short-
listing to submit design proposals.
6.  2nd December 1982:  The Government issues letter or request
inviting firms approved by Bank to submit
design proposals on 16th March, 1983.
7.  7th June, 1983:      Government completes evaluating bid
proposals, selects and recommends to the
Bank the firm that should be awarded
design contract.
.... /2



- 13 -
8.   4th April, 1984:   Bank replies disapproving Government
recommendation for award for design
contract on grounds that none of the
proposals including Government recommenda-
tion responded adequately to the terms
of reference. Bank request revision of
the terms of reference to bring in the
details initially suggested by Government
in June, 1982 and the revised terms of
reference be re-issued to the firms with
advise that the area of farm to be
developed in phase one will be reduced to
about 25 hectares only. At the same time,
Bank raised querries on suitability of
Kabonyo for the project and demanded fresh
site investigations to reconfirm site
suitability.
9.   9th May, 1984:      Governmeot responds to Bank suggesting
that the bid ranked highest on evaluation
be invited for contract negotiations so
that the deficiencies are taken up during
contract negotiations.Government advises
Bank to bring someone to reconfirm site
suitability.
10.  3rd July, 1984:    Bank replies rejecting Government recommend-
ation that the firm whose bid ranked
highest in evaluation be invited to negotiate
contract. Bank reinsists that the three
firms be reinvited to resubmit proposals;
11.  20th August 1984:  The Government reissues letter of request
together with the terms of reference
reinviting the three firms to resubmit
proposals by 11th October, 1984.
12.  15th Nov. 1984:    Joint evaluation by Government and Bank
finds the second bids the same as the
first lot. Bank again insists on rejection
of all the three bids meanwhile suggesting
that the Government avails itself for
expertise available in FAO to design the
centre. Bank hired consultant reconfirms
Kabonyo site suitable for the project. 2/
13.  20th Jan. 1985:    Government submits to FAO request for
technical assistance to help design Kabonyo.
2/   See Footnote 1 on page 13.



- Ih -
14. 23rd April -
22nd May, 1985:    An FAQ two man mission arrives and stays
in Kenya co collecc information req,i'red
to design the centre.
15.  January, 1986:      FAO informs the Government that the FAO
Design Engineer (Mr. Kovari) has been
recalled bv his Covernment and FAQ wishes
to replace Kovari with a Mr. Young, a
U.S. national.
16.  March, 1986:        FAO says U.S. clearance for mlr. Young
would take 6 weeks and Therefore FAO
proposes to replace zYoung with a British
ftrrm,Binnie and ?artners.
17.  18th March, 1986:  FAQ and World Bank confirm that it would
after all be possible to get Kovari to
complete design of Kabonyo and nence contact
with Binnie and Partners or Mr. Young
disconcinued.
l!
18.  17th April, 1986:  FAQ telexes saying Kovari wiill arrive in
Kenya on 30th April, 1986 to complete
design works.
19,  30th April, 1986:  FAQ celexes to say Kovari is now not
comin- at all and( FAO will renew contact
with Binnie and Partners.
20.  15th May, 1986:    FAQ submits to the Government names ot two
candidates proposed as replacement of
Kovari to undertake engineering design
of Kabonyo.
21.  15th May, 1986:    FAQ submits to the Government for review,
the draft of UTF agreement between FAO
and the Government.



APPENJDIX II                               - 17 -
MDEIMY OF REIO4NAL DEVU1E W4T
Tlegrvuns: "RJIODEV", Narobi                                   KENIYATTA INMERNATIONAL
Telephone: Nairobi 332383                                           CONFERENCE CENTRE
Wbha replying pl(se quow                                                    P.O. Box 62820
MRD/l/3/19  (27)                           2                               I JUN  1990ROBI
Ref. No.     .......                                   JUN,l999
Mr. Fakhruddin Ahamed,
The Section Chief, Agriculture*
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa,
The World Bank,
P. 0. Box 30577,
NAIROBI.
RE: FISHERIES PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT CREDIT 1051 - KE
I have received your letter dated March/ 1990 and 7th June 1990 in         /19th
connection with the captioned project.
Regarding the World Bank observations which form parts 1 &III of
PCR, our comments are as follows:
Section I: PROJECT IDENTITY - Other Information: Para I:
This section gives factual presentation of the Bank's division that
the project fell under and we concur.
Section II: Background: Para 2-4:
We concur with the summary background information that formed justification
for the project as presented in this section.
Section III: Project ObJectives and Components: Para 5 & 6:
The section is concurred with as giving factual outline of project
objectives and components.
Section IV: Project Preparation, Design and Organization: Para 7-10
That it took the Bank a considerably long time to decide whether or not
to finance a fisheries development project does not mean that project
preparation was difficult. Any difficulty the Bank had with accepting
the project arose primarily from the invariable doubts that are ever
cast by the expatriate donor community on the accuracy of data and
information the government gives in support of project proposals. The
statement in paragraph 7 that ". .....Missions in May and June of that
year concluded that the data base was completely inadequate>.' manifests
the distrust with which the Bank held government supplied information.
The distrust influenced project design considerably. The Bank inbuilt
in the project agreement document clauses that gave the Bank veto powers,
not only over government decisions on procurement of goods and services
but also to unilaterally demand, institute and enforce revision on scale
of the project and how it should be managed.
./2..



APPENDIX IL
Page Two;                              - 18 -
Section V: Project Implementation: Para 12 - 20:
observations forming part II of the PCR give the assessment of this
Department on how implementation of the project was.
Section VI: Project Results: Para 21:
The projcct achieved very few of its objectives. Impiementation os tne two
most important components of the project, namely the shore facilities
and the fish farming development centre were frustrated by the protracted and
persistent refusal by the Bank to accept Government nominations for con-
sultancies that were required to implement the components. The Bank
attitude caused substantial delay in implementation which consequently
led to cancellation of the two components.
Section VII : Project Sustainability: Para 22:
Bank observations under this section are concurred with.
Section VIII: Bank Performance: Para 23-25
The Bank's repeated and persistent demands on reappraisal and revision of
the project during implementation stage frustrated project execution. In
most cases, the reappraisal and revisions proposed by the Bank Super-
vision mission evidenced that members of the supervision team did not
understand problems of developing fisheries.  Attempts by officers of the
government to make them appreciate were negatively received.
Section IX: Borrowers Performance: Para 26-28:
In addition to the paralysis caused on project implementation unit by
the Bank placing unacceptable demands on the government, the project
also suffered from the failure of the Government to honour some of
the significant obligations it undertook to do. Notable of these were
insufficient budgetary provisions for the project and down-grading of the
levels of project posts, a situation which left many of the key project
positions staffed by inexperienced personnel.
Section X: Project Relationships: para 29:
Observations of the Bank are concurred with.
Section XI: Project Documentation and Data: Para 3u:
The Legal Agreement contained clauses that subordinated Government authority
on decisions regarding implementation and manaCement of the project to the
Bank. Consequently, when differences occurred between the Government and
the Bank on issues that affected implementation, it was the position taken
by the Bank that prevailed and governed.
Section XII: Consulting Services: Para 31:
Observations of the Bank are concurred with.
A. K. AM   SIGE
for: PERMANENT SECRETARY



- 19 -
Table 1
PART II
I. Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Loan/Credit Tit             brpol§          Approval       &=           commn
None                                                         



- 20 -                                    Tab I e 2
11.  Ptolec  Timel-blC
Date                Da'e
l'em                              Planned              Actual            Comment
Identification                    Not known              7/77            ROer  da'ed l/30/7$
(Reconnaissance Mission)
Preparation Completion            Not known              5/78            Report dated 10/18/78
Appraisal Mission Completion    May 79                 May 79             Buff SAR dated 5/14/80
Loan/Credit
NegotLations Completion           April 80             4/25/80
Boatd Approval                    June 80              6/24/80
Loan/Credit
SLgnature                         July 80              7/14/80
Loan/Credit
Effectiveness                     December 80          10/9/80
Loan/Credit Completion            12/31/86             12/31/86          Subject to the comment that lIt-le was
accomplished during the Pro)ect period.
Loan/Credit Closing                 3/31/87            9/30/87



- 21 _- 
111.   aoan/CredL' Disbursementb
IDA/BANK Fiscal Year                   Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                             at Quarter End
-------------  US$  Thousand   --     ------------
Appraisal                      Actual
1980-81
September 30, 1980
December 31, 1980                     -
March 31, 1981                      100
June 30, 1981                       200
1981-82
September 30, 1981                  300
December 31, 1981                   400
March 31, 1982                      600
June 30, 1982                       800
1982-83
September 30, 1982                1,000
December 31, 1982                 1,300                           10
March 31, 1983                    1,600                           12
June 30, 1983                     2,000                           21
1983-84
September 30, 1983                2,400                           21
December 31, 1983                 2,800                           22
March 31, 1984                    3,200                           22
June 30, 1984                     3,500                           22
1984-85
September 30, 1984                4,000                           32
December 31, 1984                4,500                            37
March 31, 1985                   5,000                            40
June 30, 1985                    5,500                           150
1985-86
September 30, 1985               6,000                           160
December 31, 1985                6,500                           160
March 31, 1986                   7,000                           190
June 30, 1986                    7,500                           200
1986-87
September 30, 1986               8,000                           200
December 31, 1986                9,000                           200
March 31, 1987                  10,000                           200
June 30, 1987                                                    230
1987-88
September 30, 1987                                               230



IV. Projecr Imrlemen-a-ion
Indicators                                       AppraLizal Estimate         Actual
-.- --    - 140-
Shore Facilittes-Freshwater
-  Fishing centres                             8                        0                       This componen- was never lmpiemetned
-  Fishing statlons                            9                        0
-  Ice plants                                  2                        0
-  Approach roads                             10 kms                    0
- Marine
-  Fishing centres                             3                        0
-  Fishing stations                            2                        0
-  Ice plants                                  4                        0                       1 bul 1  in Lamu finanred en irely t,y Governmen,
Fishing Craft and Gear
-  Motor sailing fishing boar                 S0                        2                       1 more completed in 1988: 3 more in pro;ress
-  Sailboat conversion                        1S                        0
(-mashuas' to deisel)
-  Sailboat construction                      25                       30                       Fiqure rela-es *o end 1987. By Project  comple-ion
date 14 were cons' ruc-ed: remainder were in pro-
gress. As of May 1989 furIher 2 t.ui 1  adli' ional
1o Project fiqure and 2 in progress
Fish Farming
-  Fish Farming Development Centre              I                       0                       This componen' was never implemen-ed and *nt
-  T/A: Aquaculturist (2)                      5 1/4 years              0                        financing for i  was cancelled from l.e CredP*
-  T/A: Fish Disease Specialist                 2 mon'hs                0                        6/85
-  T/A: Extension Advisor                      7 months                 0
-  T/A: Hatchery Officer                       5 years                  0
-  T/A: Phase 11 preparalton                   9 months                 0
Fisheries Research - Lake Victoria
-  Vehicles                                    2                        0                       Componen' not implemen-ed
-  Fishing boats                               2                        0
-  Other equipment                            Various                   0
Boat Building
-  Prototype fishing boa's                     2                        2
-  T/A: Naval Architect                        4 1/2 years              2 3'4 years             From 7 84 lo 3 8'
Trainkng
-  Boatbuilders                               40                       23
-  Aquaculturist                              10 months                 4 mon'hs                To Auburn UniverslPy. L.S.
-  Hatchery Officer                           10 months                 0
-  Chief Accountant                            8 months                24                       A' tenya Ins liu-e of Admtinisra'iun
-  Senior Accountants                         16 months                 n                                                                                                     - 
-  Financial Controller                       11 months                 0
-  Procurement Officer                         6 months                 0 
-  Cooperative and credit Officers            27 months                 t
-  Maintenance Supervisors                    16 months                 0
-  Senior Statislical Officer                  7 months                 0
-  Statistical Officers                       20 months                 0
-  Cooperat a ve Staff                        200 mont lis             IOtl mo'n hir.



Sudies
-  Si'e Select ion for F,sh Farming            6 mun hs                 0                       Katonyo was dec,ied -a  appraial .
Development Cen're
-  Lake Victoria Regional                     12 mon'hs                 0
Development Sudy
-  Pilot Developmen' Acitvi'Les               12 mon'hs                 0
-  Other Studies                              12 mon'hs                 18 months               Invenrory of fish farms
-  Master Fishermen                           12 monhs                  0
Management
-  Pro)ect Manager                            66 mon'hs                 84 mon'hs               From 10/80 o 9/87 (Projec  closing dale)
-  Management Teams                            2                        2
Moniloring and Evaluation
-  Unit                                        I                        I                       Prepared quarterly progress reports.
-_



V. Project Costs and Ftnancing
A. Project Costs (Current US$ million)
------- Appraisal Estimate'/ -----   -------- Actual -------------
Component                       I  sal      Foreign         Total      Local        Foreign         Total
,sts   Exchange Costs    Costs       Costs    Exchange Costs    Coatst"
Shore Facilities                2.19          1.98           4.17
Fishing Craft and Gear          0.81          0.66           1.47                                    0.11
Flsh Farming                    0.95          1.19           2.14          NOT
Training, Research and                                                     KNOWN
Studies                      2.32          3.04           5.36                                    0.11
Management, Monitoring                                                     NO BREAKDOWN
and Evaltation               1.23          0.53           1.76                                    0.47
Not Identified                                                                                        1.08
7.50         7.40          14.90                                    1.77
... .................. _.._.....  .............
1/   Adjusted pro rata from base to current
2/   To June 30, 1986.  No further Information available from GOK.
B.   Project Financing (US$ million)
1. IDA
Actual Over (Under)
--- Appraisal Estimate               Actual ------         --- Spent v Appraisal  --
Category                                              Credit                      Credit                        Credit
1.   Civil liorks:
(a) Shore Facilities                                   1.32                                                     (1.32)
(b) Fish Farming Development Centre                    0.80                                                     (0.80)
2.   Vehicles, Mschinery and Equipment
(a) Shore Facilitles, and Fishing Craft                1.00                                                     (1.00)
and Gear
(b) Fish Farming Development Centre                   0.20                                                      (0.20)
3.   Boat Building Materials and                            1.10                         0.01                        (1.09)
Boat Construction
4.   Technical Assistance, Studles,                         2.05                         0.11                        (1.94)
Research and Overseas Training
5.   Operating Coh c fo
(a) Fishing Centres                                    1.00                         0.03                        (0.97)
(b) Fish Farming Development Centre                    0.30                                                     (0.30)
6.   Operating Costs of Project Management                  1.03                         0.08                        (0.95)
and Local Training Programs
7.   Unallocated                                            1.20                                                     (1.20)
10.00                         0.23                        (9.77)



Vi.  ProtIc' Resuls
A.   Direc' Benefits
These have been set out under Indica'ors (s-le IV. aNove)
B.   Economic and Financial Impact.
(i)   A comparison of results (appraisal v. actual) are set ou' below:
Appraisal                  Actual                      Comment
-----------Tons per Year----
Incremental Product ion
Freshwater fish
-  High value                             375                                       5 boats in Lake Victoria from Mombasa boat building yards.
-  Low value                              400                       130             Assumption is 3 are used for fishing (Nile Perch).
Assumption is average catch of 200 kg for 240 days a year
Narine fish
-  High value                             700                       125              30 boats built. 5 used in Lake Victoria. Of the remainder
-  Low value                              800                       125             assumed 12 are used for fishing at an average catch of
150 kg for 160 days a year
Fish ponds                                      300                        0
2,575
Shore facilities - FRR
-  freshwater investments                 20%                        Os             Component never implemented
-  Marine investments                     12%                        04
- ERR
Ove0l                                  16%                        0%
-  Freshwater investments                 16%                       0%
-  Marine investments                     18                         Ol
Fish Fartino Development Centre - FRR           131                       Oi              Component never implemented
(ii)  The Project did no' attempt to measure separately the benefits of the boatbuilding component either at appraisal. or as part of
implementation. As part of preparation of the PCR, two boat owners were interviewed as to financial costs and revenues (Tables 2 and 3
attached).  These were compared wlith the Fisheries Departmen' model (Table I attached).  In all cases the FRR was high or Infinite.  In
the case of the Mombasa fishermen the FUR was estimated to be 21% on the assumption of the subsidised cost of the boa-.  If ac'ual cost
were taklen the FRR drops to 17%. In the other cases the rates of return were little affected.



- 26 -                            Table 7
Page 1
VII.  Status of Covenants
Sectlon   T.oan/Development Credit Agreements               Compliance
3.02 (a)  Establishment within MENR of a Project Unit   Project Unit established.
responsible for supervising and carrying out  Project Manager appointed
all projects parts.                              and approved.
3.02 (b)  Prompt staffing of Project Unit with senior   Two Area Managers (Coast
and supporting staff.                           and Lake) were promptly
appointed. One was
proven incompetent;
replaced after
considerable delay.
Turnover in the Project
Accounting staff has
been unacceptably high
to the detriment of
proper accounting
continuity.
3.02 (c)  Appointment or secondment of staff for           Fisheries personnel were
Fishing Centers.                                posted to major Fishing
Centers. Investments in
improved shore facili-
ties, ice plants and ice
marketing were not under-
taken.
3.02 (d)  Qualifications/experience/job description        Performance proved to be
of all staff shall be satisfactory to the       particularly unsatis-
Association.                                     factory.  Execution of
contract conditions by
Government was fraught
with delays and other
unsatisfactory
inconveniences.
Recruitment of other
services was repeatedly
delayed by cumbersome
and unsatisfactory
recruitment procedures.
3.03      Hiring the services of experts and               Experience and perfor-
consultants whose experience and terms and    mance of expert boat-
conditions of service shall be satisfactory   builder was fully satis-
to the Association.                             factory.  Execution of
contract conditions by
Government has been
fraught with delays and
other unsatisfactory
inconveniences. Recruit-
ment of other services
were repeatedly delayed
by cumbersome and
unsatisfactory recruit-
ment procedures, and
finally never
implemented.



- 27 -                            Table?
Page 2
Section   Loan/Development Credit Agreements                Com)liance
3.05 (a)  ProJect infrastructure, equipment, vehicles   SLA agreed and executed.
to (c)    and working capital related to Parts A and B  Part A (shore facilities)
of the Project to be offeredon credit to        not yet executed.  Part B
fishing societies under conditions set          (boat-building) under-
forth in Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be        taken, Project prefe-
approved by the Association.                    rence was ror selling
these on cash basis as
fisheries credit
programs have a poor
repayment record and CBK
was not likely to take
risks in lending to
fishermen.
3.06 (a)  Insurance on the imported goods to be            Tendering of major pro-
financed out of the Credit.                     curement contracts not
undertaken.
3.07 (a)  Plans, specifications, reports and contract   Complied with.
documents and construction and procurement
Schedules shall be furnished promptly to
the Association.
3.07 (c)  Preparation of PCR by the Borrower.              Not carried out.
Prepared by World Bank
in line with new PCR
guidelines.
3.08      The acquisition of land rights as required    Land rights granted for
for construction and operation of the           Fish Farming Development
facilities included in the Project.             Center at Kabonyo.
4.01 (a)  Maintenance of proper accounting records         In general, accounts have
for Project expenditures.                       been kept propertly,
although frequent change
in accounting staff has
caused interruptions and
occasional backlogs.
Later introduction of
the district focus
budgeting and disburse-
ment resulted in some
confusion over responsi-
bility for keeping the
detailed expenditure
records.
4.02 (a)  Submission of financial statements signed        There have been chronic
by Project Director not later than six          delays in timely submis-
months following end of fiscal year.            sions, due mainly to the
requirements of the MOTW
and Government to review



-28 -                             Table 7
Page 3
Sectio    Loan/Development Credit Agreements                Compliance
and audit such accounts
before they are made
official.
4.02 (b)  Submission of timely and acceptable audit        Delays of at least one
reports.                                        year were experienced,
reflecting heavy work-
load of the Auditor
General's office in
coordinating audits of
Ministry accounts. The
quality of these audits
is superficial.
4.03      Maintenance of satisfactory accounts for         As 4.02(b)
expenditures claimed on the basis of SOEs
and separate audit opinio. on SOEs.
4.04 (a)  Appropriate management of Project facilities  Not applicable.  Never
purchased by fishing cooperatives.              implemented.
(b)  Project Unit certification of managerial         Not applicable.  Never
competence and capability of cooperative        implemented.
societies for purchase of Project facilities.
4.04 (c)  Cooperatives cannot be certified for             Not applicable.  Ice
purchasing Project ice making facilities        making facilities were
prior to October 15, 1982.                      not constructed under the
Project.
5.01 to   Appointment of a Project Manager satis-          Project Manager appointed
5.02      factory to the Association is a condition        and Credit became effec
of a Credit effectiveness.                      tive on October 9, 1980.



VIII. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputa (Staff Weeks)
Stage of Project                                                              Actual Over (Under)
cycle                                      Planned         Actual              Planned
Through Appraisal                              not known        8e Y          not known
Appraisal through Board Approval               not known       100            not known
Board Approval through Effectiveness           not known         2            not known
Supervision                                    98 1/            73            125)
1/  Based on 14 s/w per year times 7 years of supervision (10/9/80 to 9/30/87)
2/ FAO/CP
B.  missions
Stage of Project                      Nusber of    Specialization                 Performance       Tyoe of
Cycle              month/Year    Persons       Represented                   Rating Status 2/ Problems/Comments
Through Appraisal
- Preparation              5/79           1         Financial Analyst                  -            Lack of
Appraisal through
Board Appraisal
- Appraisal                8/79           6         Pinancial Analysts (2)             -
Fish Technologist                                                                                               ;
Boat Building Specialist
Civil Engineer
Agriculturalist
-   st Apraisal             1/80           1        Institutions Specialist
Soard Approval
through Uffectivess
- Start up                 9/80            2        Financial Analysts (2)              1/2         Po en ial financing overlap with Kenyan/Nordic
Fish Projec' then being negotiated
Supervision
- Supervision              3/81           2         Financial Analyst                   1/1
Fisheries Expert
- Supervision             10/81           1         Financial Analyst                  1/2          Project completion already delayed by 12 months
through delays in staffing Project Unit thus causing
delays in implementation.
- Supervision               6/82           4        Pinancial Analyst                   2/2         Shore facilities component no longer appropriate                -
Agricultural Economist                          Project Unit understaffed                                      r
Coop Management/harketing                       Limited experience of Project management                      fe  I-
Specialists (2)                                 Complex design of Project and experimental nature               _
of main components                                               X
Changing conditions in fishing industry/markets
affecting underlying assuMptions
- Supervision               1/83           2        Agricultural Economist        Not Given
Research Assistant
- Supervision               7/83           2        Financial Analyst             Not Given         Government budget allocation problets (much too small)
Agricultural Economist                           -lays in appointing consultants
Project Unit not performing



- Supervision               1/84           1         Agricultural Economist         Not Given
- Supervision              10/84           2         Financial Analyst                   3/2        Project Unit not performing
Fisheries Specialist                          Limited management capacity
GOS administrative procedures cumbersome
Proposal to cancel Shore Facilities component
Boat Building consultant in place
Bids for Fish Farming Developing Centre not responsive
?AO to submit proposls
- Supervision               3/85           1         Agricultural-Economist              3/1
- Supervision               5/85           1         Agricultural Economist              3/1        Trying to cancel Shore Facilities component
PAO to submit designs on Fish Farming DevelopFent
Centre in June
Cooperative, training, accounting, disbursement and
reporting activities all unsatisfactory
Boat building component satisfactory
- Supervision               8/85           1         Agricultural Economist         2,3,4,4         US$ 3.5 m of Credit for Shore Pac4litiez cancelled
6/85
Lack of qualified personnel
Coop officer training continues but no impact aasessmsat
LEDA coepletes inventorying 2,000 fish ponds for
rebabilitiation under UNDP/PAO Project
- Supervision              10/85           4 A!      Aquaculturist                  Not Given       To finalize details on Fish Parming Development   t
ObN Specialist
Aquatic Research
Fisheries Specialist                                                                                             o
- Supervision               2/86           3         Agricultural Economist         2,3,3,3         Boat building component satisfactory
Fisheries Specialist                          Training unsatisfactory
Aquaculture Engineer                          Serious delays in accounting staff submitting
disbursement requests
- Supervision               7/86                     Agricultural Economist         2,3,3,3         Still 2 components not started, whilst another
cancelled
- Supervision              10/86                     Agricultural Economist         Not Given       Delays in FAO finishing design of Fish Parming
Development Centre. PFO backs out
Boat building unable to keep up with demand
Training of boat builders completed but none yet
building boats (lack of capital, credit facilities
etc.)
Training of coop society members stopped
Accounts and audit in unacceptable state (serious
delays, unacceptable bookkeeping). Thus no more
SOBS accepted                                                  ,3
Supervision mission presented with fait accompli from t              1 
10/10/86 PIR meeting wbich decided no extension to             a,
Closing Date                                                      tD
OD
- Supervision               2/87                     Agricultural Economist         3,3,3,3         CIR meeting decided *IDA to disburse only against
existing ctitments up to Closing Date.  Tre   ry
agrees Fiab Farming Development Centre shelved
FAO mt_ - Om charinDhaot d  undr IDA d.rnlwn
2 - Modl pm
3- Msor ro1u
Belom 19155, qwvuem teports cottu cd am slmg for datul. AIter 19MS hrc ve*e
fow istamp sr bdhly of fin. piqect o nl"  i. dcvelhInn nquu and ovcall sumus`



- 31 -
Section   Loan/Development Credit AIresiAent               CQmRiance
and audit such accounts
before they are made
official.
4.02 (b)  Submission of timely and acceptable audit       Delays of at least one
reports.                                       year were experienced,
reflecting heavy work-
load of the Auditor
General's office in
coordinating audits of
Ministry accounts. The
quality of these audits
is superficial.
4.03      Maintenance of satisfactory accounts for        As 4.02(b)
expenditures claimed on the basis of SOEs
and separate audit opinion on SOEs.
4.04 (a)  Appropriate management of Project facilities  Not applicable..  Never
purchased by fishing cooperatives.             implemented.
(b)  Project Unit certification of managerial       Not applicable.  Never
competence and capability of cooperative       implemented.
societies for purchase of Project facilities.
4.04 (c)  Cooperatives cannot be certified for            Not applicable.  Ice
purchasing Project ice making facilities       making facilities were
prior to October 15, 1982.                     not constructed under the
Project.
5.01 to   Appointment of a Project Manager satis-         Project Manager appointed
5.02      factory to the Association is a condition       and Credit became effec
of a Credit effectiveness.                     tive on October 9, 1980.



VIII. Use of Bank Resources
A.   Staff Inputs  WStaff Weeks)
73      77       7e       it       *0        1       *2      U8       64        n                $7       n9 TOM
NSflCT                                 .
iiNnP*fSS FlSiniiS 1                  P3UM3AXSAL       3.0      1.7    36.1      36.2      3. 5                                   .               .        .              Sl t.
APRUISAL         3.6                         .     80.9        .        .        .        .       .                                  25
UDO0TIAIO                  .        .        .      7.2                     .        .            .            ..           . .     12
sUFVInsIo          .                                  6°.  .  .0  7.6    16.0    11.6    10 2   7.6      6.0      2.9      1.5    "26.
O1U    .        .        .      ~~~~~~~~~.3  .6    .2        .                9        .                                  .2
*TOTAL IIOJKT 3s*Ou SS                                 6.6      1.;    36.1      36.8    94.3       1.7    16.0    16.6    11.0        7.6      6.0      2.9      1.3    2*4.6
TOTAL                                                  6.6      1.7    36.1    36.6    94.3         7.7    16.0    16.6    11.0        7.6      6.0      2.9      1.5   246.6
*  oAn   IE SPUT 31 0To   rta3I   ia"L.
B.   Nissions
Stage of Project                       Number of    Specialization                  Performance        Type of
Cycle              Month/Year    Persons        Represented                    Rating Status    Problems/Comments
Through Appraisal
- Preparation               5/79           1         Financial Analyst                    -            Lack of data
Appraisal through
Board Appraisal
- Appraisal                 8/79           6         Financial Analysts (2)               -
Fish Technologist
Boat Building Specialist
Civil Engineer
Agriculturalist
- Post Appraisal            1/80            1        Institutions Specialist
Board Approval
through Effectivess
- Start up                  9/80           2         Financial Analysts (2)               1/2          Potential financing overlap with Kenyan/Nordic
Fish Project then being negotiated
Supervision
- Supervision               3/81           2         Financial Analyst                   1/1
Fisheries Expert
- Supervision              10/81           1         Financial Analyst                   1/2           Project completion already delayed by 12 months
through delays in staffing Project Unit thus causing
delays in implementation.
- Supervision               6/82           4         Financial Analyst                    2/2          Shore facilities component no longer appropriate
Agricultural Economist                           Project Unit understaffed
Coop Management/Marketing                        Limited experience of Pro;ect management
Specialists (2)                                  Complex design of Project and experimental rnture
of main components
Changing conditions in fishing industry/marketS
affecting undtrlying assumptions
- Supervision               1/83           2         Agricultural Economist         Not Given
Research Assistant
- Supervision               7/83           2         Financial Analyst              Not Given         Government budget alloca ion problems  mtwuh too small?
Agricultural Economist                           Delays in 4pPUtnting consul ants
Pl.-1..    I. -      i, .,   .t I..,,



- Supervision                1/84           1         Agricultural Economist         Not Given
- Supervision              10/84            2         Financial Analyst                    3/2        ProJect Unit not performing
Fisheries Specialist                           Limited management capacity
GOK administrative procedures curbersome
Proposal to cancel Shore F.cilil'es cumponent
Boat Building consultant in place
Bids for Fish Farming Developing Centre not responsive
FAO to submit proposals
- Supervision                3/85           1         Agricultural Economist               3/l
- Supervision                5/85           1         Agricultural Economist               3/1        Trying to cancel Shore Facil)iies component
FAO to submit designs on Fish Farming Development
Centre in June
Cooperative, training, accounting, disbursement and
reporting activities all unsatisfactory
Boat building component satisfactory
- Supervision               8/85            1         Agricultural Economist         2,3,4,4          US$ 3.5 m of Credit for Shore Facilities cancelled
6/85
Lack of qualified personnel
Coop officer training continues but no impact assessment
LBDA completes inventorying 2D000 fish ponds for
rehabilitiation under UNDP/FAO Project
- Supervision              I0/8!            4 ±/      Aquaculturist                  Not Given        To finalize details on Fish Farming Development Centre
06M Specialist
Aquatic Research
Fisheries Specialist
t-lJ
- Supervision                2/86           3         Agricultural Economist         2,3,3,3          Boat building component satisfactory
Pisheries Specialist                           Training unsatisfactory
Aquaculture Engineer                           Serious delays in accounting staff submiltting
disbursement requests
- Supervision                7/86                     Agricultural Economist          2,3,3,3         Still 2 components not started, whilst another
cancelled
- Supervision              10/86                      Agricultural Economist         Not Given        Delays in FAU finishing design of Fish Farming
Development Centre. FAO backs out
Boat building unable to keep up with demand
Training of boat builders completed but none yet
building boats (lack of capital, credit facilIles
etc.)
Training of coop society members stopped
Accounts and audit in unacceptable state (serious
delays, unacceptable bookkeepingL. Thus no more
SOEs accepted
Supervision mission presented wih fait accompli from
10/10/86 PIR meelng which, decided no exsension to
Closing Date
- Supervision               2/87                      Agricultural Economist         3,3,3,3          CIR meeting decided 'IDA  uo disburs*  only againbt
existing commitments up to Clu,inng Da--'.  Trer.S"r,
agrees Fish FdlMrming Developo.n, Cen-re shelved.
1/  FAo mission - nut. clear whether or not under IDA direction



