Document of                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repo,t No. P-2838-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
FISHERIES PROJECT
June 4, 1980
This document has a restricted distrIbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officlal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disctosed without World Bfank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1.00      -  US$0.133
US$1.00       -  KSh 7.5
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed rate of 9.66
KSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/K Shilling exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in this report were made at US$1.00 to KSh 7.5
which is close to the recent average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
CBK    -  Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd.
ICDC   -  Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
KFC    -  Kenya Fishnet Company, Ltd.
KFI    - Kenya Fishing Industries, Ltd.
NOCD   -  Ministry of Cooperative Development
MENR   - Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
mOw    -  Ministry of Works
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Kenya and CBK - July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER          Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARIES :  Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR),
The Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd., (CBK) and
Cooperative Societies
AMOUNT .          US$10.0 million equivalent
TERMS              Standard
RELENDING          The Borrower would onlend about US$3.4 million of the
TERMS            proceeds of the credit to CBK for up to 10 years, at 6%
p.a. CBK would in turn relend to the cooperative societies
at 9% p.a. for up to 10 years. The loans would enable
the societies to acquire the equipment for shore facilities
and the fishing and transport craft. Cooperative societies
would lend to their members at 10% p.a. for up to eight years
to finance boat purchases.
PROJECT           The principal objective of the proposed Project would
DESCRIPTION  :  be to increase the incomes of fishermen by increasing
marketed fish production; post-harvest losses would be
reduced and fish quality improved by providing storage and
preservation facilities. Improved fishing craft and gear
would enable fishermen to increase fish catches and produc-
tion. The proposed pilot Fish Farming Development Center
would also contribute to increasing marketed fish produc-
tion. If successful, the Center would be the nucleus of a
second phase expansion for the development of outgrower fish
ponds. The project would also include funds for research,
training, and studies. The majority of the prospective
Project beneficiaries currently earn the equivalent of about
US$80 per capita per year. At full development, beneficia-
ries' annual per capita incomes could be expected to have
increased by about 50%. The principal risk the Project
would face is that the ice plants and refrigerated stores
would not be managed efficiently. This risk will be miti-
gated if the cooperatives receive the support and confidence
of most of the fishermen in the areas they are serving. The
cooperatives' ability to provide improved services would be
a significant motivating factor.
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST                                      Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ Million -----
Shore Facilities                  1.6       1.5       3.1
Fishing Craft and Gear            0.6       0.5       1.1
Fish Farming                      0.7       0.9       1.6
Training Research and Studies   1.7         2.3       4.0
Management Monitoring and
Evaluation                      0.9       0.4      1.3
Sub-Total                    5.5      5.6      11.1
Physical Contingencies            0.5       0.5       1.0
Price Contingencies               1.5       1.3       2.8
Total Project Cost           7.5       7.4     14.9
of which Taxes and Duties  1.6         -        1.6
Project Cost Net of
Taxes & Duties            5.9       7.4      13.3
FINANCING PLAN                                      Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ Million -----
Government of Kenya               3.1        -        3.1
Fishermen                         0.2        -        0.2
IDA                               2.6       7.4      10.0
5.9      7.4      13.3
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS  : FY             1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual        0.2    0.6    1.2    1.5    2.0    2.0    2.5
Cumulative   0.2    0.8    2.0    3.5    5.5    7.5   10.0
RATE OF RETURN :  16%
APPRAISAL
REPORT          : Report No. 2864-KE, dated May 14, 1980
MAP                IBRD 14619



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A FISHERIES PROJECT
1 .       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya on standard terms, for the equiv-
alent of US$10.0 million to help finance a fisheries project. The Government
would relend about US$3.4 million of the proposed credit to the Cooperative
Bank of Kenya Ltd (CBK) for up to 10 years, with interest at 6% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE)
dated March 1979 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A sum-
mary of social and economic data is in Annex I. A Basic Economic Report
on Kenya is now under preparation.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Prospects
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963. During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be charac-
terized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of
organizational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a
significant amount of government participation and guidance. While the death
in 1978 of President Kenyatta, who had led the nation since Independence, had
been anticipated with concern because of possible political disruption and
discontinuity in Kenya's development, it is clear that the country has made
a smooth transition to new leadership and that the future will see continuity
in both the political and economic spheres. Recent peaceful elections provide
additional confirmation of this.
4.         Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
1/   This section is substantially the same as the President's Report on a
Fourth Loan to the Industrial Development Bank (Report P-2736-KE of March
5, 1980).



- 2 -
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73.  Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly,
4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was
stimulated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid diffusion
of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder output. Growth of manufacturing
was very largely made possible by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
5.        Despite this rapid growth, Kenya remains a poor country, still
heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average per capita income in
1978 was US$320 and agriculture accounted for about a third of GDP (1975-77)
and 60% of export earnings (1977). Since the growth of the industrial sector
has been largely confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the
principal source of income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population
live and work. Thus, while the country has made substantial economic progress
in an atmosphere remarkably free from social unrest, it still has significant
problems of poverty and under-employment. It is estimated that about one-
fourth of the population have incomes which place them below the absolute
poverty line. Moreover, while Kenya's post-Independence growth record has
been impressive, a number of problems have been emerging which will make it
more difficult to sustain the rapid growth of domestic product and further
alleviate poverty. These are: the extremely rapid growth of population, the
inward-looking pattern of industrialization, and the slow growth of and lack
of diversification of exports.
6.        The most fundamental problems Kenya faces are posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically, the
result of Kenya's past success in raising living standards, which has resulted
in a steady decline in mortality and has probably resulted in an increase in
the country's already high fertility rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to  2
mount on Kenya's limited arable land. Of Kenya's total area, 583,000 kmi,
520,500 km is categorized as potentially agricultural; however, only 13%
can be regarded as high potential land, with 6% medium and 81% low potential.
Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good arable potential. While pres-
sure on the land was alleviated during the years following Independence by
the opening up of a large part of the land previously owned by Europeans
to settlement by Kenyan smallholders, much of the high-potential land is
now densely settled. Because of traditional ethnic landholding patterns
some higher potential land is not fully utilized. Mounting pressure on land
is resulting in increasing subdivision and landlessness in high potential
areas, and in settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming. The
latter also poses a serious threat of environmental degradation.
8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but has already created and is
creating other problems as well. First, there is the strong likelihood that,



unless population growth slows dramatically or ways are found to increase the
rate at which income earning opportunities in agriculture expand, excess rural
labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even if the non-agricultural formal
wage sector (which employs less than 15% of the total labor force) grows very
rapidly, it will probably be unable to absorb all the new urban labor force
entrants because of its small base. The result could be rising urban unemploy-
ment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already
been created by rapidly rising population and the concomitant growth of demand
for social services, especially education. Finally, efforts to improve the
distribution of income will be impeded by the relative lack of access to
land and education for the children of the poorest section of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon invest-
ments in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To
a lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African Community
(EAC) market. However the scope for further induistrialization along these
lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the industrial sector increas-
ingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and
therefore vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain
growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of
domestic inputs and increased production for export.
10.       An additional problem is the slow growth and lack of diversification
of exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP. From
1964-74 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate of 4.6%.
However, over the past five years export volume has grown slowly. In 1978,
export volume was only 3% above the 1974 level. To some extent this is a
reflection of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is also
an indicator of the need to direct more resources toward export-oriented
activities.
Economic Performance 1974-78
11.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulnerable
to swings in the country's international terms of trade. Thus, the growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, and began to decelerate in 1978
with the decline in coffee prices toward more normal levels.
12.       Fiscal and monetary policies were, in combination with incomes
policy, reasonably effective in restraining the growth of aggregate demand
during 1974-76, thus protecting the balance of payments and keeping exter-
nally generated domestic price increases from getting out of hand. However,
throughout this period there were increasing pressures on the Government to
expand its expenditures emanating primarily from increased school enrollments
and abolition of fees for the first four years of education; concerns about



- 4 -
national security; and the need to replace East African Community (EAC)
Corporations with national entities. With the "coffee boom" of 1976-77, the
Government decided to greatly expand budgetary outlays, both recurrent and
capital, to ensure that the additional revenues would be used for development
purposes. As a result, the budget deficit rose from less than 5% of GDP in
1976/77 to an estimated 9% in 1978/79. At the same time, the monetary authori-
ties were doing little to limit the effect of rising foreign exchange reserves
on commercial bank liquidity and expansion of credit to the private sector.
As a result, domestic credit grew by an average of nearly 30% in 1977 and
1978. The combination of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policy and the
high agricultural incomes produced a resurgence of domestic demand and a rapid
rise in import levels. By the latter half of 1977 time coffee prices had
passed their peak and begun to decline. As a result the trade deficit rose
sharply in 1978 and the foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted. The
balance on current account deteriorated from an exceptional surplus of US$58
million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978, while reserves
fell by US$200 million. In order to prevent further depletion of the country's
foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a program of import
restrictions in late 1978. As a result, imports declined sharply and both
Kenya's revenue gap and current account deficit were reduced. This, together
with increased external borrowing, resulted in a recuperation of about KE 70
million in gross reserves. However, the prospects for 1980, and indeed for
the next several years, are for continued strong pressure on the country's
balance of payments.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
13.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of social
services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan correctly
identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a development
strategy appropriate to their solution. It is sharply focussed, explicit in
its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on develppment.
14.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and the marketing system be made more competitive and effi-
cient to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to
be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition
to projects to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production,
a series of integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is pro-
posed to redress the neglect of these areas.
15.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs



- 5 -
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely to
be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
16.       The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that re-
view and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government
participation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be
centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a
more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and inter-
vention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial investment
incentives to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally, while there
are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector can play in
the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recommendations for
aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical support and ending
of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the previous Plan.
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.9%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
Economic Prospects
18.       In spite of the generally well-conceived policy measures proposed
in the Fourth Plan, it will be very difficult to attain the Plan's targets,
especially the target GDP growth rate of 6.3% per annum. This is largely due
to balance of payments and budgetary problems which are likely to be more
severe and long-lasting than was foreseen at the time of Plan preparation.
The balance of payments position is likely to remain difficult throughout
the Plan period for three reasons. First, the terms of trade are projected to
deteriorate through 1982, largely due to oil price increases and unfavorable
export prospects. Second, there has been a significant increase in the level
of commercial borrowing to finance large expenditures for successors to the
EAC corporations and other large projects. Finally, prompted by growing
political tensions in Eastern Africa and the realization that the country had
spent very little on defense since independence, Kenya carried out a major
program to re-equip its armed forces in 1977-78. The equipment has been
purchased on credit, the repayment of which will have a substantial impact
on the balance of payments throughout the Plan period.
19.       The budgetary situation will also be tighter than foreseen in the
Plan. First, the balance of payments problem will constrain the rate of
growth of the economy and of revenue. Second, the President has recently
announced several measures which are not included in the Plan but which will
have significant direct budgetary consequences. These measures include:



-6-
(a) provision of free milk for students in the first seven years of school;
(b) elimination of school fees for the fifth and sixth years of elementary
school; (c) initiation of a national literacy campaign; and (d) a 10% increase
in employment in the public and private sectors in exchange for agreed wage
restraint. Finally, the increased military expenditures will also increase
budgetary pressure.
20.       In order to deal with the balance of payments problem, the Govern-
ment has slowed the growth of credit, limited import license approvals, and
in December 1978 introduced import deposit regulations. These measures had
direct impact on import levels for 1979. In addition, the Government has
adopted a comprehensive economic program aimed at keeping the loss of foreign
exchange reserves below US$133 million for 1979-80 combined and at gradually
reducing the rate of inflation to less than 10% in 1980/81 (compared to 13.7%
in 1978). The Government's program has been incorporated into a stand-by
arrangement with the International Monetary Fund; the agreement, which is for
a period of two years, involves the upper credit tranches, through the fourth,
including the use of the Special Fund Facility, and will make an amount equiva-
lent to about US$157 million available to Kenya. In addition, Kenya has been
permitted to purchase the equivalent of US$89 million under the Fund's com-
pensatory financing facility. The first drawing under the stand-by agreement
has already been made and subsequent drawings are scheduled quarterly, ending
March 31, 1981.
External Debt
21.       The recent expansion of government and government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio, which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to an estimated 11.2% in 1979. This includes service payments
on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to about 16% in the mid-1980s, and decline
gradually thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank are 14.9% of total
debt service payments; the IDA share is 0.9%. The Bank's share of total debt
service payments is expected to rise to about 22% by 1985, while IDA's share
would rise to 1%. The Bank is presently holding 22% of Kenya's total outstand-
ing external debt, and IDA 9%. The Bank's share is expected to rise to 26%
and IDA's to 15% by 1985. The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely
to anticipated repayments of loans with short maturities. An additional
factor, however, is the gradual switch by other donors from loans to straight
grants (including conversion of some loans to grants). Because of the long-
term balance of payments constraint, Kenya's development program will require
substantial financing in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group
external capital combined and we therefore expect to continue our practice of
financing a substantial portion of total project costs, including some local
costs when necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
22.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,



has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and prepared reports on the
results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the General
Services, and the methodology adopted in appraising the assets and liabili-
ties. In late March 1980, the mediator presented to the three Governments
his proposals for the allocation of these assets and liabilities, for their
consideration. The next step would be the start of negotiations among the
three Governments based on the mediator's proposals. According to his terms
of reference, the mediator would be available to assist in arriving at a
definitive settlement. The mediator's report and recommendations on the
future structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB) have been
accepted by the Partner States. The revised EADB Charter along with the
Treaty amending and reenacting the new Charter have been submitted to the
*          three Governments for signature as they are constitutionally ready; this is
expected shortly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
23.       To date, Kenya has received 35 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 30 IDA credits amounting to US$1136.0 million, which support
57 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10
loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development
of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and finance for
industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East
African Community. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and
IDA credits to Kenya and to the East African Community corporations, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects as of April 30, 1980.
24.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors, particu-
larly agriculture. While recent sector and economic work has also focused
on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed interna-
tional economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to comprehen-
sively address the issues of income distribution, population growth, and
appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policies.
25.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distri-
bution objectives. Projects approved since July 1979 include a Third Power
Project, the Baringo Pilot Semi-Arid Areas project, a Second Integrated
Agricultural Development Project, a Fourth Line of Credit to the Industrial
Development Bank, and a Structural Adjustment Credit to help address Kenya's
balance-of-payments difficulties. A Technical Assistance Credit for export
promotion to complement the Structural Adjustment Credit will be presented to
the Executive Directors for approval shortly. In addition, a railways project,
a fourth agricultural credit project, and a cotton processing and marketing
project have been appraised, while an urban transport project, a fifth education
project, a second structural adjustment credit, and a second population
project are under preparation.



- 8 -
26.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory; how-
ever, progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has been slow due to
administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to participate.
Kenya has also experienced serious cost overruns, most notably on road cons-
truction proiects, but Government has made funds available to complete these
projects. Current cost estimates for the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project
(now in the preliminary stages of implementation) indicate that heavy cost
overruns are likely to be incurred; the financial consequences are under
discussion with the Government and the co-financers.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
27.       IFC has committed a total of US$42.9 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of April 30, 1980, IFC held for its own account US$31.6
million comprising US$23.6 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity.
A summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
28.       In spite of the rapid expansion of manufacturing in Kenya, agri-
culture remains the most important sector of the economy. Over 80% of the
population is classified as rural and depends on agriculture for a livelihood.
A broad distinction can be made between the large farming sector, including
Government farms, and the approximately 1.5 million smallholdings in Kenya,
most of which are farmed by their owners. Maize is the staple crop, but a
range of other crops are grown by smallholders, most of whom also have a few
head of livestock; some of them are also engaged in aquaculture.
29.       During the period 1972-78, agriculture grew at an average annual
rate of 2.6% in real terms, lower than the average annual growth rate of 4.7%
it achieved from 1964-73. Agricultural output also grew more slowly than the
economy and the industrial sector, which grew at over 5% and 8% respectively
during 1972-78. The share of agriculture in total GDP declined from about
35% in 1972 to 30% in 1978. Poor weather conditions and high prices of inputs
after worldwide price increases in 1973 were the main reasons for the slow
growth during 1974-76. This trend was reversed in 1977 when, as a result of
the boom in world coffee prices and good weather, agriculture grew by over 9%.
In 1978 agricultural growth declined again to under 2% per annum, owing to the
cumulative effect of a drop in world prices for coffee and tea, and adverse
weather. Kenya is a net importer of certain agricultural products including
fish.



- 9 -
30.       Kenya's 1978 GDP in current market prices was K Sh 42.5 billion,
of which about K Sh 288 million (US$38.4 million) was contributed by the
fisheries sub-sector. Although this contribution is less than 1% of GDP, the
Government recognizes the importance of fisheries to employment and nutrition.
In the 1979-83 Development Plan, the Government seeks to increase total annual
fish landings by 30%, to about 60,000 tons by 1983.
The Fisheries Sub-Sector
31.       Kenya has 640 km of coastline on the Indian Ocean, numerous lakes
and several thousand fishponds but little is known about potential fisheries
resources. Average annual fish production was stable at about 30,000 tons
from 1971 to 1975, it increased to about 41,000 tons in 1976 and 1977, and
to 46,000 tons in 1978. Freshwater fisheries provided about 80% of total
production, marine fisheries 20%; the Kenyan waters of Lake Victoria alone
account for over 85% of all freshwater catches. Fish farming is relatively
undeveloped and there seems to be potential for a higher output than is
now being harvested.
32.       Fish consumption varies greatly among population groups, but it is
highest near the main bodies of water and in the cities. Average annual per
capita fish consumption, about 3.5 kg in 1978 is significantly lower than
in neighboring countries; 1/ insufficient supply seems to be one reason for
this. Kenya exports high value shellfish and imports cheap processed varie-
ties, but continues to be a net importer.
33.       It is estimated that fishing provides the main source of income to
about 31,000 active fishermen and to numerous traders. Approximately 3,000
smallholders are said to be engaged in fishfarming. Both marine and inland
fishing methods are generally traditional, labor-intensive, and limited to
shallow waters. Most of the catch comes from about 7,000 small craft landing
between 20 and 50 kg per fishing day each. The marketing and processing of
fish is mainly in the hands of private dealers and prices to fishermen range
between 20% and 30% of the retail value. Most fish is consumed fresh for lack
of adequate preservation facilities. Few fishing cooperatives are able to
provide effective marketing services to their members (para 43).
Freshwater Fisheries
34.       The Kenyan waters of Lake Victoria and Lake Turkana account for
about 95% of total fresh water landings, the smaller lakes and rivers account-
ing for the balance. In Lake Victoria, Tilapia and Haplochromis predominate,
and stocks of Engraulicypris, an anchovy-like fish, are now believed to be
substantial. While the data are inadequate, there is some evidence of over-
fishing in the shallower waters as total catch is at best stable; catch per
unit of effort and the average size of fish caught seem to be declining.
1/   Average per capita fish consumption in Uganda and Tanzania is estimated
to be more than 10 kg per year.



- 10 -
35.       An estimated 18,000 fishermen operate about 4,000 canoes, varying
in length from seven to ten meters. The larger canoes are used for transport
of people, fish, and goods while the narrow beamed, "sesse" canoes are the
principal fishing craft. There are also a few dug-out canoes. Water and wind
conditions are generally favorable for small boat navigation o'nd gillnets are
used to catch Tilapia and other high value species. Spoilage, however, may
start even before the fish are landed, since the fishermen do not use ice at
any stage.
2
36.       With an area of 6,405 km , Lake Turkana is the largest body of inland
water in Kenya. Commercial fishing by traditional methods began in the 1960s
and fish landings have increased steadily from less than 1,000 tons in 1964
to an estimated 15,600 tons in 1978. Estimates of sustainable yields vary
widely. A fishermen's cooperative society was organized in 1971, and operates
with Norwegian bilateral assistance.
Marine Fisheries
37.       Most of Kenya's ocean coast is fringed by coral reefs close to
shore, and consequently the area of smooth bottom suitable for shallow
water trawling is limited. The Fisheries Department reported marine produc-
tion of about 4,600 tons in 1978, an increase of 8% over the 1977 figure.
About half the catch was demersal species, one-fifth pelagic species, and the
rest crustacea, sharks, oysters, squid and game fish. The bulk of production
is harvested by artisanal fishermen using about 2,000 small sailing craft.
They fish at the reefs with handlines, drifting gillnets, trolling lines and,
in inlets, with traps. Sea and wind conditions along Kenya's coast are favor-
able for coastal navigation since major storms are unknown and there are many
natural harbors.
38.       Traditional boatbuilding on the ocean coast is sharply different
from that on Lake Victoria. South of Mombasa, most of the traditional craft
are dug-out canoes propelled by sail and paddle, which can operate only
during the fair season of northeast monsoons, or within the area protected
by reefs. North of Malindi, particularly in and around the Lamu Archipelago,
a vigorous boatbuilding tradition exists. The fishing boats, known locally
as "mashuas" are solidly and skillfully constructed; they are seaworthy and
cost-effective, operating almost exclusively under sail. Nonetheless, meteor-
ological conditions limit the operation of these "mashua" dhows to less than
200 days a year, and usually to within five miles of the shore. Ice supplies
would allow fuller exploitation of the existing fishing capacity and mechanized
fishing with more seaworthy craft powered by simple inboard diesel engines
could also lead to further expansion of fishery activities.
Aguaculture
39.       Fish farming was introduced in Kenya some 25 years ago, but it is
still at an early stage of development. Except for some commercial trout
farms on the slopes of Mount Elgon and Mount Kenya, most fish farmers grow
Tilapia in the Western and Nyanza provinces, principally for home consumption.



- 11 -
The number of Tilapia ponds smaller than one acre has been officially esti-
mated at about 9,000. Most of them, however, have been abandoned for lack
of technical knowledge and proper extension service. Although a few well-
managed farms may have attained yields of 3 tons/ha per year, overall yields
are estimated to average about 300 kg per ha per year. No reliable statistics
are available for the total production of fish ponds.
40.       The Government Station located at Sagana, Central Province, was
established in the early 1950s by the Department of Fisheries to conduct
research on Tilapia farming. By 1959 a total of about 15 ha of experimental
ponds had been developed, but the station is located in an area unsuited to
warm water fish growth--soil and water acidity is too high, and water tem-
pera-tures too low. The research carried out at Sagana is of little practical
relevance and no technical basis for extension has been established. The
extension workers, moreover, are not properly trained, and cannot teach
farmers effectively (see para 42).
Services to Fisheries
41.       General.  Primary responsibility for the development of fisheries
is vested in the Department of Fisheries of the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources (MENR). A number of other Ministries carry responsibility
for certain activities which bear directly on fishing operations and trials.
The Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD) has a Fisheries Section which
is responsible for fishermen's cooperatives; the Ministry of Works (MOW) is
responsible for feeder roads linking fishing centers with arterial highways
and railheads; the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) is respon-
sible for harbors and fish landing facilities on the lakes.
42.       Research Extension and Training.  The Department of Fisheries' staff
of 432 includes 24 graduates who occupy most of the senior positions, and 200
fish scouts and 65 Fishery Assistants who are involved in extension work. The
ratio of fishermen to extension officers is roughly 120:1, which would appear
adequate; this ratio, however, excludes the requirements for fish farming.
Furthermore, the effectiveness of extension officers is impaired since most of
them have inadequate technical background and require intensified in-service
training, particularly in fish farming.  Extension services also suffer from
inadequate recurrent budgetary support, which seriously affects staff mobility
and effectiveness.  Government has responsibility for fisheries research,
and a national fisheries research unit has been established; this unit will be
expanded during the current Plan period. The proposed Wildlife and Fisheries
Training Institute at Naivasha will accept its first students in 1981.
43.       Cooperatives.  About one-quarter of the estimated 31,000 fishermen
are members of one of 34 fishermen's societies. Over half of these are on
Lake Victoria, one-quarter on the ocean coast, and the balance on other
major lakes. Several marine fishermen's societies are commercially viable,
but others, many of which are on Lake Victoria, are financially weak and have
so far been unable to provide adequate service to their members. Many limit
themselves to collecting a 10% commission from the fishmongers who buy fish



- 12 -
at their landing beaches. Because the turnover of these societies is low,
commissions are hardly sufficient to cover their administrative expenses and
no funds are available to provide services to their members. On average, it
is estimated that fishermen's societies market about 15% of the total catch.
44.       Credit.  Credit to fishermen and fish farmers is available through
institutions in the organized credit market and through individuals, mainly
fishmongers, operating in an informal market. Institutional credit is mainly
under the Fishermen Loans Scheme whereby MENR may make provision for loans to
fishermen to finance vessels, gear, nets, and other equipment. The Scheme
has been in operation for more than 10 years. It is administered by a Loans
to Fishermen Central Committee. The present ceiling for loans for specific
purposes is set at KSh 20,000 (US$267). The interest rate is 6.5% per annum
and the rate of default from past operations is high with most loans still
unrecovered or completely lost. The Cooperative Bank of Kenya Limited (CBK),
was established to mobilize the financial resources of the cooperative movement
and to use the funds for lending to members. About 1,000 cooperative unions
and societies (about 80% of those registered) are members and shareholders.
CBK is the on-lending vehicle for three Bank Group financed projects, 1/
and will also be used for the proposed project. CBK's profitability in fiscal
1978 was satisfactory, its liquidity high and its capitalization adequate.
45.       Commercial Services.  A number of private companies and individuals
are active in the fisheries sector. Commercial operators are mostly engaged
in fish marketing, ocean fishing, and boat building. The Industrial and
Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) is a widely diversified holding
company which aims to promote foreign investment in Kenya. The Government
of Kenya has a controlling interest in ICDC, which in turn holds 100% of
the shares in Kenya Fishing Industries Ltd.(KFI), and 43% of the shares of
Kenya Fishnet Company Ltd. (KFC). KFI owns a trans-shipment cold storage
facility in Mombasa and operates two trawling vessels. KFC manufactures
fishing nets for the domestic market and plant capacity is more than adequate
to meet demand. Several private companies are engaged in wholesale and retail
fish marketing, cold storage, and transport. The largest ones include Samaki
Industries (Kenya) Ltd., Kenya Cold Stores, Wananchi Marine Products, and
Ocean Products, while these are primarily fish traders, some of them operate
their own commercial fishing vessels. Nearly all sales are made in Nairobi,
Mombasa, and overseas. There are a few experienced builders of modern mechan-
ized offshore vessels, producing mainly sport-fishing and leisure craft.
Marketing and Processing
46.       Fisheries Department statistics show that, from 1970 to 1978, the
prices of most fish species rose faster than consumer prices in general.
Moreover, landed prices paid to fishermen generally appear to be more than
1/   The First and Second Integrated Agricultural Development Projects,
(IADP I-Cr.650-KE/Ln 1303-T-KE), (IADP II-Cr 959-KE) and, the Small-
holder Coffee Improvement Project (SCIP-Cr. 914-KE).



- 13 -
twice as high as the prices recorded by the Department of Fisheries. The
latter often reflect minimum prices payable to fishermen, rather than actual
transactions. In 1978, Kenya imported about 3,400 tons of fish and fish
products, worth about KSh 18.0 million. Fishmeal and canned fish represented
a large share of these imports. Exports, mostly crustacea, were reported at
about 600 tons, worth about KSh 9.0 million in 1978. No fish meal processing
or fish canning is done in Kenya.
47.       Freshwater Fish.  The marketing system for the Lake Victoria
hinterland seems to be competitive and relatively efficient, but the lack
of infrastructure may contribute to keeping prices relatively high.  Fresh
fish, particularly Tilapia, is preferred to processed fish, but only about
one-third of the catch is consumed fresh because no ice is available along
the Lake.  Thus most fish are sundried, smoked or roasted.  Within a few hours
of capture, the fish is delivered to the numerous landing beaches around the
shore where private fishmongers buy up small quantities which they sell in
the adjacent area. Except for sorting sheds at various sites, the beaches are
without shore facilities. Conditions of access roads are poor and, because of
rough handling methods, the quality of fish suffers considerably by the time
it reaches the consumer. There are at least three major retail markets for
freshwater fish in Nairobi. Smoked and dried fish is transported primarily
by bus, fresh fish mainly by private car.
48.       Marine Fish.  Marine catches are consumed in the fishing communities
and nearby villages, in the larger towns and cities, and in the tourist
resorts along the Coast. Marine products, packed in ice, are also shipped
regularly to Nairobi by train and by truck. Some lobster, shrimp, and tuna,
are frozen in Mombasa for export. Four private companies own and operate ice
plants in Mombasa and KFI has a cold store capacity of 1,800 tons (para 45).
However, the only two ice plants outside Mombasa are inoperative.
49.       In general, post-harvest losses are not as severe as they are on
Lake Victoria because marine fish deteriorates more slowly than fresh water
fish. However, in certain areas, notably the North Coast, the fishing effort
is limited due to the lack of adequate handling and refrigeration facilities.
Approximately one third of the fish supply for local consumption is sundried
or smoked, although the market value of processed fish is substantially lower
than that of fresh fish.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
50.       In June 1979, the Government of Kenya requested the Bank Group
to consider the possibility of financing a Fisheries Project. The Project had
been prepared by the Department of Fisheries of MENR with assistance from the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme. The proposed Project was appraised by IDA in
July-August 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1980, and
the Kenyan delegation was led by Mr. J. G. Shamalla, Permanent Secretary,



- 14 -
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. A Credit and Project summary
is at the front of this report, and the Staff Appraisal Report No. 2864-KE of
May 14, 1980 is being distributed separately. A supplementary Project Data
Sheet is at Annex III.
Project Description and Objectives
51.       The principal objective of the proposed Project would be to increase
the incomes of fishermen by increasing marketed fish production; post-harvest
losses would be reduced and fish quality improved by providing storage and
preservation facilities. Improved fishing craft and gear would enable fisher-
men to increase catches and productivity. The proposed pilot Fish Farming
Development Center (para. 55) would also contribute to increasing marketed
fish production. If its operation is successful, the Center could become the
nucleus of a second phase expansion during which outgrower fish ponds could
be developed. The Project would be carried out over about six years, and
would have the following components:
(a) development, expansion, and upgrading of shore facilities
for fish landing, storage, preservation, and marketing;
(b) provision of fishing craft and gear to fishermen;
(c) establishment of a Fish Farming Development Center;
(d) training, research, and studies; and
(e) management, monitoring, and evaluation.
Virtually all Project investments would be along the Lake Victoria shore in
Nyanza Province and along the ocean shore in Coast Province; these two areas
accounted for 51% and 10%, respectively, of the national catch in 1978.
Project Components
52.       Shore Facilities.  Eight fishing centers and nine fishing stations
would be developed at the main landing beaches along Lake Victoria shores and
three fishing centers and two fishing stations on the Indian Ocean shores.
The principal purpose would be to make ice available for the marketing of
fresh fish. At present, virtually no artisanal fishermen have access to ice
in Kenya.  The facilities would all be equipped with sorting sheds, insulated
stores, drying racks and smoke houses, insulated ice boxes, and fish boxes.
The fishing centers would also be provided with offices, stores, and housing
for the managers because their capacity would be higher than that of the
stations. In the Lake Victoria region, to facilitate access to the centers,
about four km of approach roads would be constructed.
53.       Ice plants, between 2-4, would be provided at four centers - Homa
Bay and Kisumu (Lake Victoria) and Lamu and Shimoni (coast) - and each indi-
vidual ice plant would have a capacity of 1 ton/16 hours. Chillrooms would
also be provided for the storage of fish and ice. The investments would also



- 15 -
include pick-up trucks and boats for transporting ice and fish. Power and
water lines would be extended and transformers provided where necessary to
serve the plants, chillrooms and other buildings. Project investments also
include working capital funds to allow the centers to meet start up expendi-
tures, finance their prepaid expenses and inventory of fishing gear and
supply, and maintain their liquidity.
54.       Fishing Craft and Gear.  About 50 fishing motorsailers would be
built during the Project period. Each vessel would be powered by a 12 hp
diesel inboard engine, and would carry about 20 m of sail for economy and
safety. Standard equipment on each boat would include the rigging, propeller,
shaft, bearings, and a spare parts kit. In addition, each boat would be fully
equipped with fishing gear. The fishing motorsailers would be operated by
the cooperative societies and their members would crew them. The motorsailers
would enable the fishermen to increase both their fishing range and the
average number of fishing days per year. North of Malindi, where traditional
boat building is highly developed (para. 38), about 15 existing "mashuas"
would be fitted with 20 hp inboard diesel engines, and all necessary equipment
included in the conversion package. About 25 traditional "mashuas" would be
built locally under the Project. These boats would be fully rigged and fitted
for fishing, including simple low cost gear. The converted sailboats and
new sailboats would be purchased on credit or cash by experienced fishermen
(paras. 66 and 67).
55.       Fish Farming.  A pilot Fish Farming Development Center would be
established at Kabonyo, in Kisumu district, Nyanza Province, or at some other
suitable location made available by the Government and acceptable to IDA (para
59). The main objective of the fish farming program would be the experimental
production of a limited number of warm water species: Tilapia nilotica and a
combination of Chinese carp and common carp. Twenty four rearing ponds, three
spawning ponds, four nursing ponds and five storage ponds would be constructed.
Civil works would also include structures for draining and filling the ponds,
offices, stores, a laboratory, a garage, and a workshop and about 1.5 km of
access road would be developed to complete the production facilities of the
Center. Investments in vehicles and machinery to operate the Center and
incremental working capital requirements during the development period would
also be provided. The Center would employ about 20 staff. An international-
ly-recruited aquaculturist and a hatchery specialist would be hired and their
appointment would be a condition of credit disbursement against all Project
investments in this component. (Schedule 1, Part 4 c(i) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The Center would be established within MENR under
the direction of a manager responsible directly to the Project Manager, with an
adequate staff and budgetary allocation and otherwise on terms and condition
satisfactory to the Association (para. 62) (Section 4.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Training. Research and Studies
56.       (a)  Fisheries Research - Lake Victoria.  Specific research programs,
including a study on the possibility of providing fish freezing facilities,
would be formulated during the Project period and IDA approval of the programs



- 16 -
would be a condition of disbursement against investments in this component
(Schedule 1, Part 4(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Equipment
needed to carry out such research activities will include four-wheel drive
vehicles, fishing boats, diving equipment, laboratory and office equipment,
scholarships and maintenance and operating costs. Funds would also be provided
for a consultant's study on active management of Lake Victoria fisheries
resources, including recommendations on appropriate restocking methods.
57.       (b)  Boat Building--Training and Research.  The boat building pro-
gram is designed to train artisanal boat builders, who will produce most of
the boats required for the Project. In addition, two prototype fishing boats
would be developed in an effort to adapt modern boat building methods and
materials to the needs and preferences of Kenya fishermen. The principal
investments would be a light truck, shop improvements and tools for the
Fisheries Department boatyards at Kisumu, Mombasa, and Malindi and tooling
and materials for building the prototypes. An experienced naval architect
satisfactory to IDA would be recruited internationally for the training and
research program. Investments for this component would include the labor for
the prototypes and 50% of the trainee stipends. Training would be confined
to modern methods and materials applicable to the design and construction of
boats produced for the project. Courses would last one year and graduates
would qualify for the acquisition of a set of tools suitable for practising
their trade in the private sector. Selected graduate trainees would produce
prototype fishing craft designed to meet the evolving fishing and transport
needs of the lake and marine fisheries.
58.       (c)  Fish Farming - Research and Training.  Besides testing the
commercial viability of warm water fish farming, the staff of the center would
be involved with the design and planning of a second phase expansion, carrying
out applied research on fish farming, and giving basic training in fish
farming to staff of the Fisheries Department. The cost of the investments has
been allocated to production, research or training depending on the expected
utilization of resources. Substantial technical assistance would be required
to ensure a sound technical base for future development. In addition to the
aquaculturist and hatchery specialist (para. 55), consultants satisfactory to
IDA would be employed for extension, and for the preparation of the second
phase expansion. Funds would be provided for studies on fish disease monitor-
ing and control. The funds would be used to augment research programs being
undertaken by the University of Nairobi or another research institute in the
country.
59.       (d)  Staff Training and Studies.  About 30 staff would receive
formal training under the Project. Scholarships and in-service training would
be provided. A suitable site for the Fish Farming Development Center has been
identified at Kabonyo and the Government is in the process of acquiring the
land to make it available for this Project. However, should it be necessary
for any unforseen reason to select another site, the Government would employ
an aquaculturist and an engineer to evaluate its technical suitability for warm
water fish farming. IDA's approval of the selected site would be a condition
of credit disbursement for the fish farming component (Schedule 1, Part 4,
c(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
60.       (e)  Lake Victoria Basin Development.  The Project would include
funds for a regional development study for the Lake Basin Development Authority
area including pilot activities arising out of the study. The study would be
in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. IDA's
approval of the terms of reference and the pilot development projects would be
a condition of credit disbursement for this component (Schedule 1, Part 4 (e)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Fishermen's Training.  Traditional fishermen both on Lake Victoria
and on the Indian Ocean are highly skilled and sophisticated within the limits
of their boats and gear. There may be some scope, however, for improving
their productivity with only small technological changes. Under the Project,
the Department of Fisheries would employ an experienced master fisherman to
conduct fishing trials and introduce fishermen to simple, low-cost modern
fishing methods.
Management and Implementation
62.       While the Project is relatively small, its diverse components would
require a considerable management and coordination effort. A project unit
would be established in the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources to
carry out the Project in accordance with Terms of Reference satisfactory to
IDA (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A Project
Manager would be responsible for implementing the Project and would report
to the Permanent Secretary, MENR. Three area managers, in Kisumu, Kabonyo,
and Mombasa would each be responsible for carrying out Project activities in
lake fisheries, fish farming, and marine fisheries respectively. They would
report to the Project Manager. The Project Manager would be assisted by a
financial controller, a procurement officer and a senior cooperative officer;
they would be stationed in Nairobi. The required qualifications and
experience of all senior staff, and the job descriptions of all other staff,
shall be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.02 (d) of the Draft Development Credit
Agreement). In addition, the appointment of the Project Manager would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Junior staff to be employed by the cooperatives and the
Fish Farming Development Center are readily available.
63.      The area managers in Kisumu and Mombasa and their staff would be
responsible for the erection of the shore facilities and would work closely
with the cooperative societies of each fishing center and station (para. 66).
The latter would be operated by a cooperative society with technical assistance
from the area manager and his team. Before a society starts operating a fish-
ing center, the area manager would have to certify that it had adequate and
competent staff, but if the certification were to be withdrawn, the facilities
would then be operated by staff reporting to the area manager. The minimum
acceptable standards would be those currently set by MOCD for approving credit
to cooperative societies. The ice plants in Kisumu and Homa Bay, however,
would be operated by the area manager and would be transferred to cooperative
societies after no less than two years of uninterrupted operation. The
transfer would be subject to the approval of the Project Manager, MENR, MOCD,
CBK and the interested cooperative society (Sections 4.04 (b) and (c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
64.       A senior Statistical Officer would be responsible for Project monitor-
ing and evaluation. He would report to the Project Manager. His staff would
include four statistical officers, and four field enumerators. The principal
investments would be for means of transport, computing, and field equipment.
A Project Monitoring and Evaluation Committee would also be established to
review the implementation of the Project. The Committee would consist of
about five senior officials from MENR, MOCD, CBK and the Lake Basin Development
Authority. The Committee will meet at least once each quarter, to review
reports on the implementation of the Project and make recommendations as
appropriate.
Project Costs and Financing
65.       Total Project cost is estimated at US$14.9 million, of which about
US$7.4 million or 50% represents foreign exchange costs. Project cost net of
taxes and duties is estimated at US$13.3 million. Project costs were esti-
mated at prices expected to prevail in June 1980 and include adequate price
and physical contingencies. A detailed breakdown of Project costs as well as
the financing plan is given in the Credit and Project Summary at the front of
this report. The proposed Credit of US$10 million to the Kenya Government,
on standard IDA terms, would finance about 75% of net Project cost, including
100% of foreign exchange cost and 35% of local expenditures (para. 21).
Directly or through cooperative societies, fishermen would finance about
US$0.2 million or about 2% of net Project costs. The fishermen's contribution
would consist mainly of cash payments for fishing craft and gear. The Govern-
ment contribution of US$3.1 million would finance 23% of net Project cost.
66.       Expenditures for civil works at the fishing centers and stations,
the Fish Farming Development Center, fisheries research, boatbuilding, staff
training, studies, and Project management would be allocated to the budget of
MENR. The Government investments in the Fish Farming Development Center would
take the form of budgetary allocations from MENR (Section 4.05 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).   Expenditures for fishing centers and stations
except civil works, and for fishing motorsailers would also be channelled
through MENR, who would be responsible for procurement, shipping, and installa-
tion of all goods and services needed to establish the fishing centers and
stations and to build the boats. It would, therefore, retain title to those
assets until the cooperatives took possession of them. CBK would finance the
cooperatives acquisition of the fishing centers, stations, craft, and gear as
well as their working capital requirements. The cooperatives would own and
operate the shore facilities and the motorsailers and sell the inboard engines,
and the sailboats on credit or cash to members (Section 3.05(a) and (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Fishermen would make down payments of
about 10% of purchase price.
67.       The Government would onlend about US$3.4 million to CBK at an
interest rate of 6% p.a. CBK would in turn lend to cooperative societies at
9% p.a. Loan maturities would be up to 10 years depending on the purpose of
individual loans and the expected life of the equipment financed. Cooperative
societies would lend to their members at 10% p.a. for up to eight years to



- 19 -
finance boat purchases. These terms are consistent with currently prevailing
lending terms in agriculture and with the Cooperative Act of February 1977.
Maturities of the loan from the Government to CBK would be scheduled so as to
match maturities of individual loans from CBK to the participating cooperative
societies. This provision would be spelled out in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(see below) to prevent temporary shortfalls in CBK's cash flow. The participat-
ing cooperatives would be the direct obligors and ultimate borrowers of over
90% of the Project credit funds.
68.       The inflation rate in Kenya (defined as increase in the GDP de-
flator) rose from 15.7% in 1976 to 19.6% in 1977 but declined to 13.7% in
1978. Over the three year period 1979-81 the inflation rate is expected to
moderate from about 12% to about 10%, thus the proposed rates would be mar-
ginally positive in real terms. In May 1979, the Government undertook to
review the current and future level and structure of interest rates, parti-
cularly those relating to lending in the agricultural sector. The review is
in progress and the Government, after consulting with IDA, would apply to this
project any relevant change in general interest rates implemented as a result
of this review (Schedule 6, Part 2 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA, between the
Government and CBK would be a condition of credit disbursement for the shore
facilities and for fishing craft and gear (Schedule 1, para 4(b)) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
69.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Civil 'works contracts for fishing
centers and stations (US$1.2 million), and fish farming (US$2.7 million) would
be carried out by local contractors to be selected under local competitive
bidding procedures which were examined during appraisal and are satisfactory.
In order to attract competition and execute the work expeditiously, civil
works for the Lake Victoria shore facilities would be tendered as one contract.
Two contracts would be required for civil works for the Indian Ocean shore
facilities: one for Shimoni and Vanga in the south, and because of its
remote location, another for Lamu. Generators, ice plants, chillrooms, bulk
contracts for 10 or more vehicles, and inboard engines (US$1.5 million) would
be procured by international competitive bidding according to Bank/IDA guide-
lines. Vehicles and equipment would be purchased with an initial supply of
spare parts. The tender documents would require that qualified suppliers be
represented in Kenya by a responsible firm capable of maintaining and
repairing the machinery without delay. Supply contracts would also provide
for the installation of the equipment and training as appropriate. Mis-
cellaneous items such as fuel tanks, electrical cable, piping, small tools,
ice boxes, fish boxes, chlorinators, pumps, scales, workshop, office equipment
and furniture (US$0.3 million) would be purchased off the shelf as part of
installation contracts. The East African Power and Lighting Company Ltd.
would be requested by the Government to construct the power line extension and
sub-stations at Kisumu, Homa Bay, and Lamu. Materials and tools for boat
building (US$0.5 million) would be purchased by the Fisheries Department
according to Government regulations which are satisfactory. Technical
assistance contracts (US$1.8 million) would be entered into on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Unit costs of technical assistance are estimated at US$3,300 to
US$7,500 per staff/month.



- 20 -
70.       Funds from the Credit account would be disbursed according to the
following schedule: (a) 65% of expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures for vehicles, boats,
equipment, and machinery; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local
expenditures for boat building materials and boat construction; (d) 40% of the
local operating costs of the Fishing Centers and of the Fish Farming Develop-
ment Center; (e) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, studies and
staff training; and (f) 65% of operating costs of Project management, research,
and training programs, including local staff salaries.
71.       Disbursements against (a), (b), (e), and finished products in (c)
would be fully documented. Disbursements against (c), except for finished
products, and (f) would be made against statements of expenditures, the
documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA but would be retained
by the Borrower for inspection by supervision missions.
72.       Accounts and Audit.  The Project Financial Controller in MENR
would establish and maintain adequate books and records of the receipts and
payments in respect of the Project and the assets and liabilities created by
Project transactions, in such a way as to enable separate identification of
all Project accounts from other accounts of the Ministry. He would prepare
semi-annual Reports and submit them to the Permanent Secretary. MOCD, CBK,
and the cooperative societies participating in the Project would also maintain
separate Project accounts. Project accounts prepared by the Project financial
controller would be forwarded to IDA, not later than six months following the
end of the financial year to which they relate. Independent auditors accept-
able to IDA would continue to be appointed to audit Project entities and
accounts and arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be made for the audit of
expenditures made against certificates of expenditure (Sections 4.02 and
4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits, Risks and Justification
73.       The principal economic benefits resulting directly from Project
investments would consist of increased marketed production of fish. Fisher-
men, traders, and consumers would share the benefits. The increase would
reflect incremental catches in the Indian Ocean, production of the Fish
Farming Development Center, and reduction of post-harvest losses in the marine
and Lake Victoria fisheries. Refrigeration and improved handling and trans-
port are also expected to increase the quality of fish and its value. The
value of annual incremental benefits is estimated at about US$2.1 million at
full development in Project year 6. No significant foreign exchange benefits
are expected to result from Project investments. However, while immediate
export prospects are uncertain, some of the Project incremental production
could be exported.
74.       The benefits to fishermen from the proposed Project would be two-
fold. Cash benefits would accrue to fishermen selling a higher proportion of
their catch at better prices than at present, because of Project investments
in refrigeration and transport. Fishermen who operate the project mechanized
boats would be expected to increase their average cash incomes as a result of



- 21 -
larger catches. About 80% of the prospective Project beneficiaries currently
earn the equivalent of about US$80 per capita per year. The Project would
therefore address the needs of the poorer members of Kenyan society. At full
development, beneficiaries' annual per capita incomes could be expected to
have increased by about 50%. Employment creation would be modest.
75.       The overall economic rate of return from Project investments is
estimated at 16% over 20 years. The economic rate of return from the invest-
ments in Lake Victoria fisheries is estimated at 16%; Indian Ocean fisheries
18%. The analysis includes the direct economic benefits and all Project
investment costs, except research, studies, and training costs not related to
the quantified economic benefits, such as training of fish farming extension
staff. Fishermen's labor costs were included in the analysis. Hired labor
was valued at the market wage rate; the labor of self-employed fishermen was
valued at twice the market wage rate to reflect the relative scarcity of
entrepreneurs and foreign exchange costs were valued at US$1 = K Sh 10.5.
The establishment of the Fish Farming Development Center is only a pilot
operation to test the commercial viability of warm water fish farming in
Kenya, and assemble operational and organizational data to plan further
expansion. The proposed size for the Center was determined on the basis of
the least cost at which the results of the experiment would be conclusive.
76.       Project investments in marketing and artisanal fisheries are not
expected to have any adverse environmental impact. Traditional boatbuilding
however requires substantial amounts of timber. Good quality hardwood is
still available on the Coast in fair supply, but it has become scarce in the
Lake Victoria region. Modern boat building methods introduced under the
Project would contribute to conserve the diminishing supply of first growth
tropical hardwoods. With modern adhesives, high strength, and low weight
hulls can be built with less wood and lower grade wood than traditionally
required. Low grade wood is in abundant supply in Kenya and is readily
renewable.
77.       Risks.  The Project's design is basic and simple, a feature which is
expected to minimize risk. Incremental production targets are modest and well
within the most conservative estimates of resource availability. With the
exception of the fish farming component, Project success does not depend on new
or untried technology. The principal risk the Project would face is that the
ice plants and refrigerated stores would not be managed efficiently. This
risk would be mitigated if the cooperatives receive the support and confidence
of most fishermen in the areas they are serving. The cooperatives' provision
of improved services under this Project is likely to motivate the fishermen
significantly.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 22 -
79.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are given in Section III of Annex III to this report. The appoint-
ment of a Project Manager is a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
(Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement.)
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1980



ANNEX I
- 23 -
lZlYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AV RACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO.NYA.                                                   - EtOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /- 
TOTAL              2.6                                                    SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTUlRAL     59.4                                 MOST RECENT      GEOCRApHIC   INCOE        INCOXfE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Jb       REGION /c   GaCUP Id   GROUP ;o
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  110.0       170.0      320.0           306.1       209.6       467.5
EDCY CONSUMPTION PEl CAPITA
(RELOCRNS5 OF COAL EQUIVALNT)       143.0       135.0     152.0             80.6       83.9        262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSTISTICS
POPULATIONZ _lD-EAR (MUaIONS)         8.0        11.3      14.6
UUAN POPULATION (PERCENT Of TOTAL)  7.4          10.2       11.8            17.1        16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       30.0
STATIOKIUY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         94.0
YEt STATIONARY POPULATION IS UEACllD                   2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        14.0        19.0      25.0             18.4       49.4         45.3
PER SQ. Dl. AGRICULTURAL LAND    142.0        191.0     246.0             50.8      252.0        149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          46.5        45.8      47.0             44.1       43.1         45.2
15-64 YILS.                        51.0         51.6      50.0             52.9       53.2         51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.5         2.6       3.0              2.8        3.0          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH LATE (PRCENT)
TOTAL                               3.2         3.4       3.8              2.7        2.4          2.7
UBAN                                5.8         6.6       7.0              5.7        4.6          4.3
CRUDE BIRTH LATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.0        50.0       51.0            46.3       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATr RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0        15.0       14.0            17.2        15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION IATE                ..         3.4       3.8              3.1        2.9          2.7
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        30.9      48.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIED WOMEN)    ..           2.2         ..              ..       12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          103.0       102.0      89.0             94.3       98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   103.0        98.0      91.0             89.5       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAKS PER DAY)           75.0        71.0      59.6             55.8       52.1         54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        32.0        29.0      22.8             17.9       13.6         17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      25.0        18.0       14.0            22.3       18.5         11.4
HEALTF
LIFE CCECTANCY AT UIRTR (YEARS)    47.0          52.0      53.0             47.0       49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
rHOUSAND)                           126.0/f     119.0         ..              ..      105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT oF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        15.0      17.0             20.3       26.3         34.4
URB,N                                         100.0     100.0             53.9       58.3         57.9
RURAL                                ..         2.0       4.0             10.1       l5.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        50.0      55.0             22.5       16.0        40.8
URBAN                                ..        85.0      98.0             62.5       65.1         71.3
RURAL                                ..        45.0      48.0             13.9        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIUN          10000.0      7830.0j  8840.0/A         17424.7    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NUR5ING PERSON      2320.0/f.   1700.0o5  l070.QL&jh       2506.6     5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            830.0/f      770.0     760.0/i          502.3     1417.1       726.5
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..            201.4      197.3       272.7
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..           1403.6     2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSP1TAL BED            ..          ..        ..             23.4       24.8         27.5
HOUS INC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         4.7         ..             4.9        5.3          5.4
URBAN                                           4.7                        4.9        4.9         5.1
RURAL                                           4.7                        5.5        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              2.5/f         ..        ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..       22.5        28.1
7R8AX                               ..           ..        ..               ..       17.8        45.1
RURL                                 ..          ..        ..               .. .L                 9.9



ANNEX I
24     -                                          Pate 2
IIYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ErIfTA                    RECRENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
-  tlZ      SAtE     NEXT HICHER
MOST RECZNT     GDOGRAPHIC   INCOhI        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb CST7TE /b         RZGION lc   GtOUP td    GROUP /e
EDUCATloN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PInM :    TOTAL                    47.0        64.0     105.0             59.0       63.3         82.7
MALE                 64.0         74.0     112.0            64.2        79.1        87.3
FEMALI               30.0         53.0      96.0            44.2        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         9.0      15.0              9.0       16.7         21.4
MALU                  3.0         12.0      19.0             12.0       22.1        33.0
FEM&1Z                2.0          5.0      11.0             4.4        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z Of SECONDARY)    ..          2.0       2.0              7.0        5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHll RtATIO
PIMARY                            42.0         34.0      33.0             42.2       41.0        34.1
S CONDARY                          15.0        21.0      24.0             22.9       21.7        23.4
ALT LITERACY RIATE (PERCENT)         20.0/f      30.0      40.0             20.8       31.2         54.0
CONtSUMPTION
PASSLNGER CARS PER T OUSAUD
POPULATION                         8.0          9.0       7.3              4.0        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PE THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.0          ..      38.0             44.3       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         1.5       3.0              2.9        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TOtUSAND POPULATION                  13.0        14.0      10.0              5.6        5.3         18.3
CIEMMA ANNUAL ATTO'IDANCQ PM CAPITA  1.0           ..       0.4              0.4        1.1          2.5
LABOR TORCE
A -L LAROR IFOILCE (TROUSANDS)     3300.0      5100.0tj  6100.0
F.MALZ (PERCE11T)                 34.8         33.6      33.3             31.9       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTUVR  (PERCENT)             85.8        82.1      79.0             77.6       69.4         62.7
INDSTRY (PEtCENT)                  5.1          7.1       9.0              7.9       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PFECENT)
TOTAL                                41.2        40.6       39.2            40.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                 54.5        53.8       52.3            53.9       52.4         48.8
FEMALE                               28.2        27.4      26.1             25.6        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DPELDEINCY RATIO               1.2         1.1        1.2             1.2         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PECENT o0 PRUVAZE INCC
VECEIVED BY
RIGHEST 5 PMtCENT OF EOUSEHOLDS      ..        20.2/k       ..              ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCCNT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         52.6/k       ..              ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         3.97%      ..               ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ItOUSEHOLDS     ..        11.77k      ..               ..         ..         16.3
POVCRTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     122.0.           187.6       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                ..          ..      93.0             96.8       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UBAN                                 ..          ..     125.0            138.4       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      71.0             71.0       54.8        103.7
ESTIMTED POPULATION 8ELOW ABSOLUE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PCNT)
URBAN                                .0 ..               2.0              34.5       44.1         24.8
RURAL                               ..           ..       O.O             48.7       53.9         37.5
Not available
No applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averageis for each indicator are population-weighted geoSecric means, excluding the extrome
values of the indicator and the soat populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b    Vnless otherwise ooted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Kost Recent Estiuste, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africs South of Sahara;   /d  Low Incom  ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  1e  Lower Middle Income
5T281-550 por capita, 1976);  7f  1962;   Li  Registered, mot all practicing in the country;   /h  1978;
/I  1972;     Labor force age 15-50 year.;   /k  urban only.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 25 -                                                                                ANNEX I
DEFIITION O? SOCUL MICATCRS
Noe  lhohthe data, are dron  from, sources isnerelUy juldged the mast authoritative and reliable, It should. also be nOted that they Nay tot be intern.-    Page   3
tion   y  opaal  bees... Of the lack Of standard,se  definiticon  end concepts used bY dLifferent countries ID col-lecting the dat.. The lAte are, aOfnetbe1ees,
use ful, to describe orders of mageltude, idilcate, trend.  end characterize terets mjor differences between countrie..
The ad4I.stIsruuy, rergp   rowrsawn indicator are popuLatioe-veiahted geometric means, excluding the extraom values of the indicator an,d the eeot populated
countryioacgniT i  to lack of datr, grop averages of all, Indicators for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and of Indicators of Access to deter and Escreta
Dtsosoal. dousing, Loos Ditiuinadtvryfor other country groups ar  pop.Itioc-weighted iscentric maca without exclosion of the exrOem  ve.loss end
the soot populated country.   ie  h  cove        ocountries  -Ang t. Lf. dctrs,,:dev             Indsn bainhltod5adi   o   nfsa   cto    utb   ori
in relation aVerages of one Indicator to ~ ~ ~ ~ rags W    _~      to           par.=
iodicator a  atie  wn  te coutry and reforenCe groov.
LaND ARiA (thousend sq.ha.)                                                                Moses to LoOrea;Z  Disotsal,     rlerent I ofo-lt   f)totalurban, en  rurl 
My -    oalsrface eras comprising lend are   A end lend eaters.                     Zae    fpol   ttl    hn   n   ua)sre   yeceadsoa  as
Mgiutua     ost reent estimate of acricultural area used temprarily               percentages of their respective populations, Ecreta disposal my include
or permanently for cropa, pastures, earhet end kitchen garviss or to                    the collection  and disposal, sith or citbaut treatment, of human, ecreta
lie fallo.,                                                                             and cate-eater by watear-borne ayetem  or the use of pit privies  sod sinjil
Insta.latione.
GNPM  CPrJA (S*)- iNP per capita. estimatsa at cu-ret maret prices,                  P.2tfon    ,~ioian    Ppsalation divided by somber of praccioig poysiciano,
oaduflatw.byiasom  convrsic  e athod an MarIA lank Atlas (19175-fl basis);                  ifiId 9 iii,iJial achnel at university level.
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                 -                     ~~~~~~~~~Ponaaton Per purin  Peso  - Popelatiom divided by numter of practicing aal.
c Ftpl APrIA   AmmalcomuMim of  ommercal mwUam  Wa                        U     1fsr     Ie,practical tLrees, *ed assistant nurse..
CU         CPIa-  eai  ss.tc   o   as-i  san                                  Eivosaiti9 t ital Bed -to  tal rbee  edral- Population  (total, urban,
I=   kilogras otLL oa  equlvLlm   pw cLawpta; 1960,rural.) divi"ded b-y their repetie  slrohspital beds av,ilable in
cha0pel 197 sia triiy i   ioomso   olsueen   e   aia                                       public and private general and specialized bcstpital end rehabilitation centers.
ipio, and i~~~~~~~6 data.                                           Ho~~~~aspita.ls ars  stablisksote  permnanetIr ataff.d by ma least one physician.
POPUIATI                                                             I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Htablishentst  providing principally custodial care are net included. RuLral
A    n      - a          ens) - As of .lsl  1; 1960, 1970, sad                  hospitals, however, isslud  health and medical. centrer  not puerentenly staffe
12T*   M.                                                         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a phsician (hot by .a sdinal assistant,  -mea, midwife, sto..) which offer
Urban Posslatio   sat of ot  ) -ratio of urban to tota  peplAtIone;              in-patient accadtien end provide a limited rane of medical fecilitia..
differentwdef   icMAs  4cne   area  eq  affect comparability opf dtata                                     e~lp,,jgjtlj4-Ttl wmetr of admissions to or discharges frome
sag  ceuntriee; 1960, 1970, end 1973 data.                                               ohjhIdiAWyiie    f beds.
Fot!FTa      ear      - Curret popeltisn projections are based on                KPJSm
3ot&   oati   by age, end can ead their mortality and fertility          Averge  in  ofHushld (nereon_  Merhosehld   -  otal  ura,ad  uat
ras,Projetisa parsons for ecrtaliby ratep e.rsise  of those                       AMbSseodoaseso      rsp  ftsitsi  sh  sarelvn   quaters  n
levels sesseda  life sepetanwsyt birth Increasing with counatry'                      their main meals. A hoarder or lodger eqW or may not be included in the
per capita income levwl, end f ale life "ectssq  stsbilizing at                       houseold for statistical psarpeess.
77.5 Years.  The parewtere far fertility rate also haee  three levels               Avrg nel    be of_nereo.        rca     totl  urban. an   url-vrage nuaber
assmiag decline in fertility according to inca level and pant                         ofprospr omi                   rs,adrrl ope  covntoAL deellings,
feamlt  claosngq performase. Bach Conntry is then aOinab d ame of thass               respectively,  DalLings seclude non-peomanet structures end unocoupied parts.
nine ombieticas of martel.ity and fertility treads for projection                   Moan. #M to  .atict           !Iecn  of delns-toa,urban. an  rural,-Co
purposes.                                                        reo~~~~~~~~~~~tionidelnswt   sbetri.t   nlvn   quarters as perrentage of
9tfti4gy.p~tIon - in a stationery population there is no grwi                           total, urben, and rural dwellings respectively.
iiiiiI.WSfl iEtne7  is equal to the death rate, and also the age
struture ramise  constant. Thi  isachieved only aftar fertility rates             EDUCATION
decline to the replacement level of omit net reproduction rats, eken                 31jdErlletRio
sack generation of  n* replaces itself eaatly.  The stationery pope-                  P6i=I7chhf        iliI7al   ed fmae    ios  tota ,el  and femle. suro.
ittioc sice es estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics                  cato!l ae7tteprmr   ee  asI percentages of resPectIve prtesry
ofte  oplation is the year 2000, and thereto of decline of fertility                    coboal-eqs populations; cor.May  noludas ohildron ted -S-1  yoers but
ste to  epacmet level.                                                                sd,.ustsd for different length. of prisary eoato;for coutries  -th
Year satiosey ouuatlonIs reached - Tb. year when, stationary population            universal1 educatioc enrollment eq  exceed 100 percent aicow  some pupila
Yiea h'asbee  reahe.                                                                     ire below o,r aove" the officlIa  school age.
tupflpt s                                                                        ixoder  school . totalmale an  Yfemal  - Computead as tboco  cecoodary
Nijj7IdMyea .-pouation  par squar  kilometr (100 heotares ( of                              duabnrqie   tlatfu   er   f approved primary isrcin
ute.) are                                                                               provides general voctional, or teacher treunlog instructions for pupils
.ter s. he. sewicultural lend - Conputod us above for agriultural lend                    usull Iof 1.2 to 17 year  of age; crapdns    uso, re generally
only.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~encouded.
Po~ -iu  Ae  trctre(percent) - Children (i-lb yearc (  working-age                 VoainlerlmnA                cn  o   eodr)-Vctoa   notitutione  nld
7l-h  yas,en  retired (b  years end over) as percentages of mid-yea                    ehia,  nuti,orohrpor   which operate Indepeodently or as
population; 1960, 1970, end 197? data.                                                    departments of secodaryax. institutions.
Population Growth Pate  peorcent) - tota  - Annuaml crosh rates of tctal mid-             Pi-taeraio-piry ndscdry-Total. students ecrolied is
yea  populations for 19730-60, lM0-7, end 197-73.                                         PriLmar n  secondary, levl  dvided  yumes of teachers in the corre-
PONaitio  irowth Ptjpret-uba-Ancaer-uth rates of urban                                     spcndd.n  level.
poulations fr-15.0 ~-i   n  1970-77.                                                 Adl  ieayrts  pZerent) - literate adults  aoble to rend sod cite) as
had jg tet .Czr thous w) - Annua  live births per thousand of mid-                  A~pafpretaeo  tota  adult population aged .5 years and -ovr.
yew  op LtueI1y9b'17G   so-d 1977 data.
Crude Death Rate (new thousand) - Annual deaths per thousad of mid-year               coijigopTi          -
population; ISbo, 1970, end 1977 data.                                                Pesesra  Cus$e  huad volutioc) - Passegr car  comprise enter cr
9fur       z     oa te  - Average number of daughters a women sill hear                   setn   eethan sight persons; secude amb-alacs,  erseed eulitery
in her -r    repr sutove period if she.o ine  presant age-                              vehiles.a
apecific: fertility rates; usually five-year everages ending in) 1960,                Rai22svesnwtnaadcplation.) - All types of reeier  for radio
i970, td 1975.                                                                          bracat  tognrlpbicprtoan  of population; excludes  Inicen..sd
Family Pleannin  - AcOectrs. Aoa  tosns   Annual. number of                               receivrs in countries end in years when raginoration, of radio  ets -ac1
acceptors of birth-costrldvce   ne aupicsof naticeal family                             e"ffAt; late for recent years eq out he comparble since nust countries
planning proVrIA.                                                                       abolished licemaitg.
Family Plnnina - Users (nercent of married awmn)-Percentage of caot-led                 T   ecivers (pr tcued  op Loato) - TV receiovrn  for broadcast to general
.s #vsl-bosrogeoage  15-14 .1.ysrc   bh   a   irvh-ccntrol devices                 pulic per thbousand  opuatin;  nrides unlicensed TV reeivers in votries
to all married enmm. in same age group.                                                 end in years when regitration of TV sets an . in effect.
Heesoaner Circ lato  (new thuad toj.laol            - Show  the average oirvu.latoic
FOOD ADRffIOofdalgeeaineetewpapr ,dfned:a  a prbdical publication
ine ;o=oo ;~- -io    - capita, 1962-71100) - idex of paw capita                     denoted primarily to reordfing gamuel cows.  It is considered to be "Uialy'
enaiprouction of  fl ood commdities. psroductionu excludes ...ed end                if it appeers at least four tims a wean.
feed.end Is on calendar Year basis.  Commdities cover primary goods                   TinsM =nsa Attendancepa Caiace   er                   ed on ohs number of tickets
e..sugarcane instead of sugar) which er  edible end contain nutrient                sldrcgteya,ildngdMisin  to drive-in obi s sod ecbils
(eg.offee and te  are excluded).  Aagreate prdodution of  -k cOuntry                  units.
is based cm eatiosal avrg   rocrpiceocghs
Per capita supefclories(ecn f rex,lr.t) - Zqcatsd from                              iArz  POWE
ensvg  qulvaat o  net ond spplie  avalala in co-untry per ..pita           1ta          Frce  t~housands) - FtoomaiclLy artive persons, including armad
prday. Avallable, supplies comprise, damstic producetion, Imprts less               focsedunqoe   u  excludlng housewives, students, etc. Deftintons
eparts, *ad changes in stach.  Net suppliesoclude animal feed, seeds,                in verious coutries  re not oopearabis.
quantities used in food processing, end lessee in distribution. Reqira-                          en=~) - Poale  labor force us percentage, of total Labor forc..
wante  were eflimactd by FAD based on pOqrsi"cLg     Dowlned  for coema            M1h  pj        rce t) - Lbor, frcea in fanLing, furestry, hosting and
antIvity and health considering enliroomeotal tmpperatura, body weights,               ItIEiiiiiaspecnaige of total labor force.
age_ad see distributions of popolation, and allowing ID percnt for                                 sot)r  "   - Labor force Is mining, cdenstrctin, manufacturig end
cmo  at household level.                                                            c    riot cane  smd gAs as peroentage of total labor fos.-
Per capita supply of potein ~ozym  Per- dA) . Prvtsin content of per                  Petcpto   as(ecn)-ttl   ale  andeMa                           PartIcipation or
capita set suppy of fod per lay. ret -uplay of feed is defined an                     activity rates artwstda   totalmae  edf_l   Labor force an per-
shove. Reuirets for aLl countries esuablished by UMA provide for                      ceneas of total, male end feale population of all. ages repectively;
talman  2lowsnce of do gram  of total. protein par Day and. 20 geMa of               1960,1970, sad 1975 data,  These are 1101e participation rates reflecting
animaal sad pulse protein, of otich 10 gra  should be animal protein.                 ae seotructure of the. popuilation0  end long tic  trend.  A lo  estimates
These standards a,re lower then those of 73 awnm of total protein and                 are, fromk national Sources.
23 er   ef anlmall poteis as as average for the coIn, poun..ed by PAO                                     Oxi      RtoofpL.lto  odr15ad09edovrt
in the Third WorlAycd   Honervy.                                                      t        r     a  a age group of l5-6"  years.
Pe  ain   rti  n co     from, eslel end pulse  - Proltein suppl  of food
da-i-d  ro 9odas and P"le  inga    e  day.                                 EM DRMn
Chld(me   -  tctll.tr Pats ne  thousd. -                                                                                      -nliah    e   .s ~ ssewacroa Ic  ohi   ahad kind) - Recsived. by richest
in age grop 1-h Years, to children in thLis ag  group; for mast dowel-                  3     st   inheet 20 percent, poores  WU pneret, and poorest 's0 percent
eping conetri.e data derived frma Life tables.                                          of boousebsiA
.M.Esmctacm atBith  reas)- Aveage number of pe-ar  of life                       LtdiIoicerrIc                          levl 05 !or&c ?ia  - 'urbanadrua
b~inidgabdith(A07I97O,and 197. dana.Absolute poverty  nalelistticaevlbomikaminima
InfantHortaity Rae (pe  theuand (   Annul deahe of infants under aonotritionallY adequte diet dluo esseotial non-fond requiromeotc  5  o
Yerof oge19  per II.bosed lIve births,                                                  affordable.
toor.ct.iSafe water' r o-ost of- coocanoc  - tota1 uran  and rua.-Otounted. R.tive Povrty ZosIvL-    bP ervpt                                            we  sod rurl 
'cober of peopie  total, ura,sdrrlnb                  reasonable  oeco..t tturelaltir   poet    oslvlI   n-or   faerage p.r 25p1.a
cafe ontor supply  includes trcatsd curfoo  antere or  ntrcetcd hot                     pesoa  1acoma of the country. Urban, level ;n der--d frt  ;.he ruLl Ic...I
-ootaminated  -or ouch us that from. Protected brhle   pricgo,                          rich sd.uatmant for cigher cost of Ilvizg  n. urban areas.
and  -sitay %ello ( as percenoagec of their reepecti"e popultoo   n                   EtmcdPlti-=       Ioo Below  Abelut. Poverty Zacma  evl orust  - -ban and
an urban, area a public fouantain or otsndpoet located not mare then 200                ral-Pret if popauatioc ,orban and rua'os  r                        1boute  -or'
neartr from a house mar be cossidrd. as beieg within reaom.asla waccss
of tnst houe   T. rura  areas reas onable ana..J  -.Ild imply that the
housewuife or flmers, of the household As non have to sPa  a diepropa-                                                         P-assaic  end Social Date liisiLoo
ticoate per  of tho day Is fetching ohs SlaLy-. swater Deads.                                                             Aosom oAsly-o  and Prcojctions Departaot



-   26   -                                                              ANNEX I
Economic D-oioe.t DoCt Sheet
1977
A972c1973  botu l                     ..eliSin ry          Projected                         Ave A     "e Annul X te of    .      Shore of
_72       1973      1974      1975       1978      1977      1978      1979       1980      1983      1990                                 _           CDP
A.  MIRatlonl Acco  ItI
(Million 989 at 1976 prieso)
1. GDP                              23.5   3084.5    3216.4   3237.2   34715.5    3680.9    4169.9    4474.9   4699.1    6166.1    8280.8              5.0        5.8          6.1          100.0
2.  Gais. frn I7                     +1T0.3  +145.0    445.9         37 3      _         253.7      45.6      10.9      25.7        7.7        .          .           .           .            6.9
3.  GY                               3063.8   3229.5    3261.4    3199.9    3415.5    3936.5    4215.5   4485.8    4724.8    6173.8    8375.4           5.1        5.6          6.3          106.9
4.  saperte                          1429,5   1394.2    1475.6    1177.0    1127.6    1293.1    1807.6    1721.6    1671.9    1944.5    2504.8         -2.0         1.1         5.2           35.2
5.  Experts - Volu ..                1066.7  17.+5.4   1200.4    1861.8    11L42.4    1194.2    1205.9    1239.2    1282.1    1682. 5    219.0          1.7        4.9          5.4          32.2
6   eCports - TT djoat.d             I267.0   '290.4    1245.4    10D.3    11425.4    1440.0    1251.5    1250.1    1307.8    1690.2   2282.7           2.6        4.4          6.2           39.1
7.  rIeorte Cap - 7T djootad          162.5    103.8     230.2      172.7    -14.6   -144.9        556.1     471.5     364.1      254.3     222.1         .           .           .            39
8   Tote1 G-aWt oo                   2457.7   2634.5    2519.3    2713.8    267.1    2933.9    3721.9    3835.5    3918.3    4986.0    6801.0           3.6        4.3          6.4           79.7
9    evoa-nC-t                        788.6    698.6      972.3     658.8     713.7      857.8    1049.6    1121.8    1170.6    1442.1    1796.6        2.2         4.6         4.5           23.3
10.  Neticol S-nogs                    613.0   478.8    592.9        423.7     630.2      912.4    460.0    639.0       770.8    1163.8    1597.8        8.3        14.2         6 5           24.8
11.  Dn-sti S-etea                     606.1   39.9        742.1     46.1      725.4    1002.6      493.4     650.3     806.5    1187.8    1574.5       10.6        13.3         5.8           27 2
12. GDr 0torrent 05S                  2019.9  2368.1    2847.9    3151.4   3415.5    4427.8    5507.9    6442.8    9164.3   14079.8  22504.9            17.0       14.4          9.8
S.  Sooter Outat
(Shre of G0P at the 1976 priee)
1.  Naoe-C-oriog Ledotry               10.8     11.4       12.0      11.9      13.3      14.1       31.7      31.7      31.6      30.3       28.4      10.7        4.7         4.7
2.  Agnicolture                        36.8     36.1       33.3      35.1      33.9       34.4      14.9      15.4      15.4       I8.7      20.1       3.3        7.1         10.0
3.  Other                              52.4     32.3       52.7      33.0      52.8      51.3       53.4      52.9      53.0      52.9       51.5       4.3        5.2          5.5
C. Pricee
1. Export PrieL  Index                 31.5     60.8      83.4       92.5     100.0     132.6      129.4     142.0     154.4     201.0      268.6      20.8        6.5         6.0
2.  tpeet Itotx                        44.2     34.0       80.4      95.9     100.0     109.:      122.9     140.2      150.1     199.7    252.7       19.8        7.2          4.8
3.  Ter.e of Teed.                    116.5    112.6    103.7        9f.5     100.0     121.5      105.4    101.3      102.9     100.7      104.3
4. GDP Deflator (US0)                  7091     7688       88.5      97.5     100.0    120.3       132.1     144.0     195.0    228.3       271.8      11.4        8.1          3.6
5. Aversge Exhchnge Rote
(U5M/ka)                        2.800    2.897     2.900      2.700     2.390     7.416       Z.59       2.66
D.  Selected idtcotoee                        1965-70   1972-77   1978-65   1985-90
1.  CL3R                                         3.0      4.8         4.6       3.9
2.  Iport Eloatitity                             1.0    -0.34          .07      0.86
3. A-eroge D-etiC SaLyga Rtte                   19.0     29.0        16.9      19.3
4. Average lotiol S-Lang  Ret                   18.6      18.6       16.8      19.7
5. Kloginel Natenol Seei o R.t.                  0.22     9.38        0.42      0.16
6.  Importo/GDP                                 29.9    40.9         35.0      30.7
7.  terea ta/GDY                                20.3     23.3        24.1      22.5
8.  Ro-roe Gp/GDY                                9.7      2.8         7.1       3.2                Ar. A-n1ol
Cr. Do te
E.  ft1oinmt                                     1970       1975      1976      1977      1978       1970-78
(Tbeeed.)
1.  l.bor Force Tota                                     6400.0
2.  8. Eaploy_et                                644.5     891.1      837.5     902.5     911.5        4.47
- .   lbi- Fl- cc.                                                                                                            PrI y.
Ktr dilijon)                              1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975.76    97/77    1977/78
1.  R.correot Deranges                         124.0      141.6       149.0      190.4      226.3      269.2      311.1      474.6
2   lecorreor Epeodltr.                        119.4       128.7      139.6      162.7      207.4      246.6      205.1       431.1
3.  63crre-t S-rple.                           +13.5      +12.9       +9.4       +27.7      +18.9      +22.4      +29.0      .43.5
4.  D     velopnt Projeet
E cDing- & other
Hi..cI .a.eo.. Receipt                       0.4        0.4         0.6        0.3        -           -          6 .4       2.0
5.  ForeIgn Greet.                               0.8        1.8         0.5        3.2        8.2        7.0        10.5       17.2
6. SorpiA, Available foe
Fin ncios Oteilopseet
E.peoditore-                                14.7       15.1        10.3       31.5       27.4       29.4       45.9        62.7
7.  Oroelop-ent Er dit-ree                      46.5       51.9        61.8       67.4       94.2      126.3       124.7      236.9
9.  Greroil Deficit                            -51.7      -36.8       -51.3      -35.9      .66.8       -96.9       70.9     474.
9. Fin ocieg of the Deficit
Ltorool Loeee                             10.9       11.5       24.7        14.5       20.1       43.7       29.8        50.0
Detest Ic
L.ong-ter- Borrowing                       8.1       15.6        21.3       18.0       15.5       52.8       25.0        90.0
Shor--teem BorrowIng                      13.0        1.1         6.8        2.9       12.7       32.5       29.7         5.5
Greete                                     0.03       0.02        0.02        -          -          -           -          -
nses. _D C.h -I^-
(I.crrae -)                                 -2.4       -8.5       +1.5        +5.6      + 8.4      -32.0       -5.8      +28.6
i/ R.esd on 1964 prioe..  -A8, Octr
G.ttb-r 23, 1979



- 27 -
ANNEX t
KENYA
Balance of Payments and External Assistance
(Hillion USS)
Actual                                     Prelimininrv                        Proiected
1972       1973        1974        1975       176         1977           8       1979        1980        1985       1990
A.  Suarv  of Balance of PD=ntf
1.  Exports (Incl. NFS)                          560.0       698.6     1005.5       963.6      1142.4      1569.7     1475.5      1630.0      1818.2     3132.5      5449.6
2.  Imports (leel. NFS)                          632.0       752.6      1237.3     1128.3      1127.8      1412.4      2090.8     2210.9      2296.6      3556.6     5822.3
3.  Resource Balance                             -72.0       -54.0      -231.8     -164.7        14.6       157.3      -615.3     -580.9      -478.4      -424.1     -372.7
4.  Not Factor Service Ieame                     -34.1      *101.9      -101.1     -111.8      -130.4      -170.3       L42.4     -133.8      -180.1      -282.2     -352.9
4.1 Net Interest Payments of ubiob:              -15.7       -16.5       -18.6      -21.4       -27.1       -30.7       -25.8      -76.1      -102.2      -144.0     -118.1
(Interest on Public N & LT Loam)            (-20.2)    (-22.1)    (-25.0)    (.26.2)    (-30.7)    (-38.4'    (-39.4)    (-52.5)    (-65.6)   (-147.8)   (-193.4)
4.2 Direct Investomet Iecem   (Net)
4.3 Workers Remittance (Net)              )      -18.4       .85.4       -82.5      -90.4      -103.3      -139.6      -111.6       -57.7      -77.9      -138.2      -234.8
4.4 Other Factor Sarvlcq In.ci  (Not)
5.  Current trTaufers (Net)                       38.1        22.2        19.3       50.0        32.3        71.3       103.1      119.7       133.0       239.9      408.2
6.  Ba&ance mo  Current Acco.mt                  .68.0      -133.7      -313.6     -226         -83.4        58.2       o54.6     -594.9      -525.6      -466.5     -317.5
7.  PriFate Diract MRvat_nt                       4T          89.4     *TTI          39.7        5S.2        74.4        77.7       87.0        95.8       179.3      288.8
8.  Capital Crants                                44.4         8.3        22.9       30.6        40.3        40.0                 -                -           -           -
PubIlic N & Lt Lo n
9.  Dibursentl I                                  79.2        86.4        92.8      119.7       188.0       180.8       414.6     454.3        541.3       695.1      941.7
10. Amortixstiok 17 V1                            -13.7       -15.9       -18.3      -16.0       -30.9       -43.1       -76.9      -96.3      -161.1      -306.3      391.0
11.  Net Disbursonmat 1/                           65.5        70.5        74.5      103.7       157.1       137.7       537.7      358.0       380.2       388.8      550.7
12.  Use of nFl  Resources                          0.0        -0.6        53.5       51.6        18.9       43.7          7.7      114.4        76.1       -40.0      -30.0
13.  Short-term Capital Trasactions                 5.6        15.1        31.1       31.1        17.4         7.7           -           -          -           -           -
14.  Capital Trasactios, n.a.i.                   -65.1       -17.6       -14.6      -24.3      -101.3       -45.7        38.2       62.1           -           -           -
15.  Chane in Reserves (- - increase)             -25.2       -31.4       29.7        -5.9      -104.2     -22.,)       193.2      -26.6       -26.6       -61.7     -492.0
B. Grants end Loans Gitments
1. Official grants 31                             44.4         8.3       22.9        30.6        40.3       40.0
2.  Public Y & LT Loeps                          101.0        98.1       170.1      396.0       211.9      321.2
2.1 I8RD                                          29.0        34.0        10.4      193.5        31.0       84.0
2.2 IDA                                           28.0          -         33.5       25.5        14.0        36.0
2.3 Multiiaterol                                    -          1.1         3.6        7.2        10.8        39.3
2.4 Governmnts                                    24.4        61.4       1Z2.6       74.4        35.3       61.3
of vhich centrally planned economies          -         0.3         -           -           -          -
2.5 Suppliers                                      2.3          .          -          4.0        56.5         -
2.6 Financial Institutions                        17.3         1.6         -         91.4        64.4      100.7
2.7 Bonds                                          _-                                                         -
2.8 Public Losas, n.e.i.
3.  Other N & LT Loans (where *vatlable) 41       33.0        23.2         6.9        3.6         7.5         -
C. NeMorand.  Item
1. Grant tleent of Total Comitments 5/            44.8        43.6       66.5        23.0        23.0       36.5
2.  Average Interest (Percent)                     4.3         4.3         2.1        6.9         6.4        5.2
3.  Average Mnatkrity (Years)                     29.2        27.6        36.7       24.6        17.5       25.6
/  Include, financing of projected balance of paymnts defIcit (1978-1990)on mediu/h-ard blend terms.
2/  Includes repayment on military loans.
1/  Eacluden technical ssistance groats.
4/ Repesents a wtionAl 50 peweent of loan comwitmento for UAC projects
-/ Represents grant elment of loans.                                                                                                                        EON, CPt A
October 23, 1979



- 28 -
ANNEX I
KENYA
Debt   and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972      1973        1974        1975        1976        1977
A. Medium and Lpne-term Debt  nisbhursed Cnly)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period) 2/           475.1      549.8       633.2       694.5       820.9      970.5
2.  Including Undisbursed 2/                                 799.2      820.2       990.6      1289.8      1445.2     1765.5
3.  Public Debt Service   3/                                  33.8       38.9        44.6        43.8        63.2        72.5
3.1 Interest                                                  20.2       22.1        25.0        26.2        30.7        38.8
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                   ..        ..          ..
B. Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                         6.0        5.6         4.4         4.5         5.5        4.6
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                            1.7       1.6         1.6         1.4         1.9         1.6
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                     8.1        7.9         7.5         6.0         8.2         7.3
C. Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                            4.3        4.0         3.9         3.8         4.0        4.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                7.1       7.1         7.0         6.3         8.2         7.5
D. Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                   12.5       11.5         7.5        10.6        16.7       12.8
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                           10.4       9.4         6.0         9.2        13.9        10.9
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                          82.7       81.6        80.3        86.6        83.6        76.2
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements              39.9       49.1        33.0        63.4        45.2       24.9
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements        48.5       70.7        48.9        70.5        53.0        35.3
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                         19.1      23.6        24.9        33.4        37.9        35.6
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                   30.9      38.2        39.9        48.3        52.0       49.2
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      21.6       28.7        27.2        34.5        46.7       48.2
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                23.1       30.6        28.6        36.4        48.4       50.1
Outstanding Dec.  31. 1977
Amount           Percent
(US$ Million)
F. External Debt vDisbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                  276.3              28.5
2.  Bank Group                                                            388.2              40.0
3.  Other Multilateral                                                     20.8               2.1
4.  Governments                                                           403.6              41.6
of which centrally planned economies                                  0.1               -
5.  Suppliers                                                              29.2               3.0
6.  Financial Institutions                                                 84.6               8.7
7.  Bonds                                                                  44.1               4.5
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.                                                      _                _
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt 1/                                           970.5             100.0
10.  Other M & LT Debt 2/
11.  Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                                1751.1             180.4
12. Total M & LT Debt (incl. Undisbursed)
1/ Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50 percent of EAC debt.
2/ Excludes military debts.
3/ Includes repayment on military loans.
EAN, CPIA
April 4, 1979



- 29 -                        Annex II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of April 30, 1980
US$ Million
Amount (Less Cancellations)
Loan or                                                         Banki/  TW    IDA_/  Undisbursed
Credit #   FY    Borrower   Purpose
Eight (8) Loans and sixteen (16) Credits fully disbursed    101.0              116.7
826      1972   Kenya       Nairobi Airport                     29.0                      0.6
932      1974   Kenya       Highways                            29.0                      0.1
477      1974   Kenya       Livestock                                          21.5      16.9
993      1974   Kenya       Tea Factories                       10.4                      1.7
1093      1975   Kenya       Group Farm Credit   )                7.5                      7.5
537      1975   Kenya       Group Farm Credit   )                               7.5       3.7
1105      1975   Kenya        Site and Service    )               8.0                      6 6
1132      1975   Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry               9.9                      3.2-
1133      1975   Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline           20.0                      0.3
1147      1976   TRDC        Hydroelectric Development           57.6                      0.4
1148      1976   IDB         DFC II                              10.0                      0.3
1167      1976   Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply   35.0                         9.6
1184      1976   Kenya        Education III                      10.0                      8.7
650      1977   Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development  )                    10.0       5.3
1303-T    1977   Kenya        Integrated Agri. Development  )          10.0               10.0
1304-T    1977   Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                      17.0               13.4
651      1977   Kenya       Rural Access Roads   )                              4.0       1.8
1305      1977   Kenya       Rural Access Roads   )               4.0                      4.0
1389      1977   Kenya        South Nyanza Sugar                 25.0                     14.0
692      1977   Kenya       Agricultural Credit III   )                        20.0       3.2
1390-T    1977   Kenya       Agricultural Credit III   )                5.0                5.0
1438      1977   IDB         DFC III                             20.0                     13.7
722      1977   Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement  )                       6.0       3.5
1449      1977   Kenya        Bura Irrigation Settlement  )    34.0                       34.0
750      1978   Kenya       Small Scale Industry                               10.0       9.9
1520      1978   NCC          Second Nairobi Water Supply        30.0                     28.1
791      1978   Kenya        Second Urban  )                                   25.0      24.9
1550      1978   Kenya        Second Urban  )                    25.0                     25.0
797      1978   Kenya       Education IV                                       23.0      22.0
S-12      1979   KPC          Olkaria Engineering Loan            9.0                      6.0
1636      1979   Kenya        Sugar Rehabilitation               72.0                     72.0
1637      1979   Kenya       Rural Water Supply                  20.0                     19.9
858      1979   Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development              3.0    13.0      13.0
1680      1979   Kenya       Telecommunications                  20.0                     19.9
1684      1979   Kenya       Highway Sector                      90.0                     90.0
914      1979   Kenya        Smallholder Coffee Improvement                    27.0      27.0
9591/    1980   Kenya        Second Integrated Agriculture                     46.0      46.0
96MO     1980   Kenya       Baringo Pilot                                       6.5       6.5
17991/    1980   Kenya       Kenya Power Company                 31.0Q./                  31.0
181731 4/ 1980   IDB         DFC IV                              30.0                     30.0
9992/    1980   Kenya       Structural Adjustment Credit                       55.0      55.0
Total                             737.4  32.0   366.6    693.7
Of which has been repaid          27.7     -      1.6
Total now outstanding             709.7  32.0   365.0
Amount sold                  11.8
of which has been repaid  10.2   1.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDAlI           708.1  32.0   365.0
TOTAL undisbursed                         -i7.6   28.4   238.7    693.7
1/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes US$1.6 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Not yet signed.
5/ Net of Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).



- 30 -
ANNEX II
B.  Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya. Tanzania and Uganda as of April 30, 1980
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                  Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million-----
Five loans fully disbursed                         93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                35.0          0.5
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                42.4          0.1
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                26.5          0.9
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications       32.5          1.0
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0           5.9
Total                                         244.8          8.4
of which has been repaid                    56.4
Total now outstanding                         188.4
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4           0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                     188.4
Total undisbursed                               8.4          8.4
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
C. Prolects in Execution 1/
(As of April 30, 1980)
There are currently 35 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. Yields continue to rise, and from 1979/80
onward the appraisal projections are likely to be exceeded. The project
factory building program is behind schedule and, due to cost escalations,
funds from the Bank and Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loans will
cover only 12 of the 17 factories included in the project. However, the OPEC
Special Fund has agreed to finance the foreign exchange cost of 3 factories
under the project, and CDC has agreed to provide additional financing for the
remaining 2 factories. CDC has also advanced financing for their Fourth Plan
covering factories outside the project, and by June 1980 a total of 15 fac-
tories (12 under the project and 3 others) will be operative. The standard
of Kenya Tea Development Authority's management continues to be high, and
institutional improvements together with strengthened staffing should further
improve performance. An economic analysis of the project indicates that
despite substantial cost increases the economic rate of return on investments
in new tea factories is over 40%.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and recruitment of ranches is
very much behind appraisal estimates. In spite of the satisfactory livestock
price structure which was adopted in early 1978, removing the most serious
constraint to ranch development and viability, recruitment of ranches continues
to be slow. Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists
in the range development components. In addition, Government services in
ranch water development planning and in the company ranch sector have been
improved. Only two commercial ranch loans and eight company ranch loans were
approved in 1978/79, and the Agricultural Finance Corporation's disbursements
for coast company ranches are being held up pending agreement on satisfactory
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
security arrangements. Group ranch loan processing also remains slow, and
unless there is a substantial improvement in extension services in the pas-
toral areas, particularly in Masailand, the project goals of adoption of more
commercial and efficient livestock production will be difficult to achieve.
The project -ontinues to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1093-KE/Credit No. 537-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Loan and US$7.5 million Credit of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have come under
rehabilitation in the past two years for a variety of reasons: legal, social,
political, and financial. Physical rehabilitation work on participating
mixed farms and coffee estates is satisfactory. Coffee estates are achieving
recoveries in yields, and mixed farms are generally expanding areas cropped
and improving grazing. However, achievement of a satisfactory rate of finan-
cial rehabilitation on most mixed farms is in doubt. The recommendations of
the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the Project) have prompted Govern-
ment to make a major review of its policies, and although reaching a consensus
has proved difficult, Government expects to take a position on the large farm
sector in the near future. Upon clarification of Government policy, the Bank
and the Government expect to undertake a joint review to see whether the
original project objectives can still be attained. Pending this review, no
further recruitment of mixed farms will take place.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: US$9.9 million 1/ Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Kenya Forestry Plantation
Project (Loan 641-KE), to complete the Government's target long-term afforesta-
tion program of 130,000 ha of sawlog and 24,000 ha of pulpwood plantations by
1980. The planting program is proceeding steadily; the cumulative total to
date is 25% below target, due to a variety of reasons, including bad weather
and poor management. The building and labor housing programs are both con-
siderably behind schedule. There has been little progress in the implemen-
tation of most of the covenants of the Credit Agreenment, particularly
regarding the sawmilling sector, the national land use study, the gazetting
of nature reserves and the study of stumpage rates for sawlogs.  Government
is now providing very adequate budgetary allocations. Procurement is proceed-
ing normally. Disbursements and total Project expenditure are both ahead of
schedule. The Credit is now fully disbursed and the Loan should also be fully
disbursed before the end of 1980.
1/   Net of cancellation; an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on
July 20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under
the loan were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



33-                           ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than.progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the objective of improving the productivity and
incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. Late release of credit
funds in the past led to delayed application of farm inputs and expected yield
increases were therefore not achieved; measures have now been taken to ensure
availability of credit funds at the appropriate time. Steps are also being
taken to improve the low rates of credit repayment and loanee reparticipation.
The overall balance between numbers of loanees and infrastructural support--
staff, storage and transport--at cooperative union level has been improving,
and active efforts continue to be made to improve input supplies and marketing
systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project:  US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural development has advanced well; land clearance has been
completed in about 51% of the area, and 3,725 ha have been planted. Yields
from outgrowers' cane have been higher than anticipated, probably because of
excellent and well distributed rainfall and heavy fertilizer applications.
About 20% of the drainage component has been completed, and the benefits can
already be seen. Although several components are slightly behind schedule,
progress is generally satisfactory. The standard of management of the sugar
company continues to be good, and coordination among the various agencies
involved in the project is improving.
Loan No. 1390T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE! - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$5.0 million Loan and US$20.0 million Credit of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed because of a backlog in updating
loan reimbursement requests by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).
The lack of consolidated information on AFC's lending trends toward different
categories of farmers and the current high arrears situation also pose pro-
blems. However, the disbursement situation is improving, and cumulative
commitments in the smallholder and medium-scale farmer categories now account
for almost all funds available for on-lending under the project.



- 34                             ANNEX II
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date:  June 27, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is pLoceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates
that the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate
is about 65% above the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope
for reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances. A revised financing
plan is under review by the co-financiers. No supplementary IDA financing
is proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date:  September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Progress has been made in equipment procurement, and selection and
appointment of consultants for factory rehabilitation, road works, drainage
and irrigation is in progress. Coordination of project activities has improved
considerably, but a proposal, now under Government consideration, to withdraw
executive power from the Kenya Sugar Authority could have a negative impact on
project implementation if brought into effect.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Early stages of implementation are proceeding satisfactorily,
although slow progress in land adjudication will limit the number of farmers
eligible for loans during the first season. Engineering consultants have been
selected for the roads component.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement; US$27.0 million
Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 11, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on April 11, 1980.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980;
Closing Date: October 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$23.0 million Credit of April 25, 1980
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:  March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is now about 3 years behind
appraisal schedule. Revised total project cost are estimated at KShs 163.0
million or about US$22.0 million representing a cost overrun of about 27%
in terms of local currency. Government is taking measures to counter cost
overrun and difficulties in making available their financial contributions by
considering the curtailment of project items and phasing activities over the
years involved in the project implementation period. Achievements of educa-
tional project objectives continue to be satisfactory, especially in the field
of curriculum development for basic education. But achievements would be
negatively affected if delays in construction works relative to facilities
serving primary teacher training, development of mass media programs and the
development of a more efficient distribution system for primary school equip-
ment would continue and prevent those facilities to become operational by
the project's Closing Date.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education: US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical implementation of the project has slowed down and is now
about 14 months behind appraisal schedule due to slow progress in the start
of construction (except in the case of the Faculty of Agriculture). Revised
total project cost increased to about KShs 300 million representing approxi-
mately 17% cost overrun in terms of local currency. The Technical Assistance
program as well as the pursuance of educational objectives under the Credit
are proceeding satisfactorily.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project completion is now forecast about 21 months behind schedule,
and it is unlikely that lost time can be recovered. However, some major
components may well be operational several months ahead of the overall com-
pletion date (now estimated to be 11/80). Although there is a substantial
cost overrun, this is not seen as a major problem since Government is fully
committed to earliest project completion. Regarding key personnel vacancies
requiring the Ministry of Water Development's (MWD) attention, MWD is fully
aware of this situation and, while progress is slow, remedial action is being
taken. An extension of the Closing Date (by 12 months) may be necessary.



- 36 -                          ANNEX II
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Impiementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 18 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply contracts
financed by other donors and the construction contracts being financed by
the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on detailed
design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to date have
been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated increase
of 50% in local currency costs and 12% in total costs. Water supply and
sewerage operations are in sound financial condition. However, the Borrower
has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants pertaining to external audits.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: July 1, 1985
This loan became effective January 24, 1980. New tariffs have been
introduced, and management consultants are assisting with implementation of
the first phase of the program to strengthen the organization and management
of the Ministry of Water Development (MWD). Key project staff have been
appointed. Preparation for construction of schemes is about eight months
behind schedule, but MWD is planning to revise the implementation schedule
to compensate for delays.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978.
The loan is 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.
Establishment of a commercial accounting system is now underway. The principal
problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient staff for operation and
maintenance, both of which are constrained by a Kenya-wide shortage of skilled
personnel. A training program, prepared with UNDP assistance, was recently
approved by the Bank. Completion of disbursements is expected shortly. The
project completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Fifth Highway Project: US$29.0 million Loan of
September 6, 1973; Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Implementation started 18 months behind schedule due to changes in
design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. Con-
struction of 593 km of roads has been completed, and work on the Kisiani-
Bondo road is continuing.  In view of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the



- 37 -                          ANNEX II
construction of two roads were delayed; agreement was ultimately reached to
delete the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km) road from the project. The Closing Date,
which was postponed from December 31, 1977 to December 31, 1979, has been
postponed further June 30, 1980 to allow time for completion of the Kisii-
Mogonga road where construction has recently begun.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. About 99% of the loan has been disbursed.
The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow time
for completion of procurement of equipment related to the operation of the
pipeline.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on the Pural Access Roads Program was reviewed in depth
by all donors and discussed with Government during the annual review meeting
held in June 1979. The project is about 15 months behind schedule but is now
progressing satisfactorily. All eight Bank-financed construction units are
fully equipped and are now operational. By March 15, 1980, 481 km of access
roads had been constructed, of which 71 km were gravelled. Annual output
averages 30 km per annum for all units, about 15 km below the appraisal
estimate. Output had declined due to shortage of laborers, particularly in
Kiambu District, and poor work organization in Nakuru District. To resolve
these problems, the Ministry of Works has requested local governments to
supply more labor to construction units, and has designed a Swiss-financed
engineer to supervise works in the Nakuru area.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan of
April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's Highway Sector Plan has been
delayed because a critical shortage of funds has caused a reduction in the
highway work program. While this has not yet affected the project appreciably,
the continuation of this trend in FY81 could touch projects included in the
Sector Loan. In general, detailed engineering has been completed for road
construction and upgrading scheduled to start in FY80, and the designs for
roads to start in FY81 are completed or under preparation. The road main-
tenance program for FY80 is in line with appraisal estimates except for a



- 38 -
ANNEX II
90% reduction in resealing of paved roads; however, the Ministry of Transport
and Communications is planning to request funds this year from the loan to
help clear the backlog of resealing.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: US$57.6 million Loan 1/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in
June 1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled. A further cancellation of US$1.9
million has been made along with a postponement of the Closing Date to
June 30, 1980.
Loan No. S-12-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Loan of December 1, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling is proceeding on schedule; specifications for the new
drill rig and accessories have been completed and tenders are being evaluated.
Miscellaneous supplies and equipment have been purchased under International
Shopping procedures. This project is refinanced under Loan No. 1799-KE.
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million 2/
Loan of April 25, 1980
This Loan is not yet effective.
1/   Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan
was cancelled on October 19, 1978, and US$1.9 million on November 30,
1979.
2/   This includes $9.0 million for the Engineering Loan (S-12-KE) to be
refinanced under this project.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of JulY 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975: Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October
9, 1975. US$9.7 million of the Loan had been disbursed as at April 30, 1980.
The Closing Date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Twelve sub-
projects have been approved. As at April 30, 1980, US$17.5 million had
been committed and US$6.3 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project:  US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977: Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) continues to make progress in insti-
tutional development, particularly as regards financial discipline, project
appraisal procedures and operating performance. KIE's management is determined
to implement agreed policies to improve profitability, but continued attention
is required in a number of areas; a comprehensive plan of action for reducing
arrears is particularly important. Nineteen subloans totalling US$887,574
have been committed, but no funds have been disbursed as yet under the line
of credit. A small amount has been disbursed, however, under the technical
assistance component.
Credit No. 999-KE/EEC Special Action Credit No. 56-KE - Structural
Adlustment Credits: US$55.0 million Credit and US$15.0 million EEC
Credit of April 10, 1980
These Credits are not yet effective.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project.: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
This loan became effective on August 16, 1979. Initial delays in
procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE/ - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation. Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses.
Infrastructure for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and con-
struction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected to begin
soon. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now opera-
tional, but designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule. One health
center is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse
against its costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the
Bank. The design of the other health center should be submitted for approval
soon. Tenders have been invited for all other community facilities. Technical
assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in conjunction
with the project. Project costs for the first phase remain close to appraisal
estimates but are expected to exceed original estimates for the remaining
components because of delays incurred.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress on studies included in the project
is slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed pending
Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Transport
and Communications has appointed various consultants for the design and
construction of all physical project components. The draft final report of
the Tourism Pricing Study has been reviewed with Government and consultants
in the field, and the final report is expected to be submitted soon. The



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Very Large Herbivores Study is in progress. Satisfactory agreements have been
on guaranteed minimum returns, thus meeting the disbursement condition relating
to this component. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed,
and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments
to the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the
requirements of the supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-
poaching operations have been approved by the Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism
and are now in the final stages of processing.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 16, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mlombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA              (US$ million)
Kenya                           0.7
Tanzania                        0.6
Total                       1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                          1.7
Tanzania                      0.3
Total                     2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness:  October 30, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is given below:
(US$ million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness:  September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. -The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of
headquarters. About US$30.8 million of the loan has now been disbursed.
The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the
countries concerned is as follows:
(US$ million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$9.1 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 44 -                          ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
April 30, 1980
Fiscal Year        Obligor                Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2      0.7     5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and 1979  Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    17.2          6.3    23.5
1972            Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels               2.4       -      2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles             6.3      2.8     9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market       2.0       -      2.0
Total Gross Commitments                    33.1     9.8    42.9
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     9.5      1.8    11.3
Total Commitments now held by IFC          23.6     8.0    31.6



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA - FISHERIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:          About 15 months.
(b)  Preparation by:                 Department of Fisheries, Ministry
of Environment and Natural Resources
(c) Initial discussions with
IDA:                            June 1977
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:  July 1979
(e)  Negotiations:                   April 1980
(f) Planned date of
effectiveness:                  October 1980
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III.   Special Conditions
(1) The required qualifications and experience of all senior staff
and the job descriptions of all other staff shall be satisfactory
to IDA (para. 62).
(2) The Government would submit to IDA for approval the terms of
reference and qualifications of consultants and internationally
recruited experts engaged for the Project and would consult
with IDA on their appointment (paras. 55-58).
(3) The management of the ice plants in Kisumu and Homa Bay
would devolve to cooperative societies after no less than two
years of operation with the approval of the Project Manager,
MENR, MOCD, CBK and the interested cooperative (para. 63).
(4) The appointment of the Project Manager would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (paras. 62 and 79).



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(5) Special conditions of disbursement would include:
(a) for the fish farming component:
(i)  the appointment of an acquaculturist and a
hatchery specialist (para. 55);
(ii) the establishment of a Fish Farming Development
Center (para. 55);
(iii) IDA's approval on a site for the Fish Farming
Development Center (para. 59).
(b)  for the shore facilities and fishing craft component -
the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfac-
tory to IDA between the Government and CBK (para. 68).
(c)  for fisheries research on Lake Victoria - IDA's approval
of detailed programs (para. 56).
(d)  for development studies and activities in the Lake Victoria
Basin - IDA's approval of the Terms of Reference for such
studies and activities (para. 60).



992  1  03    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                         1 ~~~.0                                     2
IlO sf'j                       <~  0 -0utr00-:   --  f ;-3   00000--0005;0;  --;X:X-   t-ut;  -0 03d m                      fHt
IV     0                                                                 09     30      0
09110921AT          
si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v~~~~~~~S
N,_8tA N3N (IN5>3 0 W v   3voZ   X7 I
@t9    #   b  %or        t53O*; --           /                                                      I                              -+        XE- .      
-   NN'N
NVgJo  NIUINI     )S                                                          N.     moo-,                           ;V '"S''0X'; ;;',9;f0~  a: 
xl'                                                                            D3fQ&I S3183NS1I4I s v 
91 
0   <  XJ lO;F -- ) 5 ~~~~~                                                            ~                        1003
sI)2 'I'-  <                                                                                         /;ot~~~A    1Q00  IS  V            e
Q 7  ;>rffl     0   SIIDNg \<               '          (       \          )\A        1   1   V    A             t'    VdN  tVfl2
.   ).                        .              f-                   ,.1--                                   .. I~    J 'V t 
Av~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k
~~~~~~~110 ;:Vo                                                                                                       10^,                   2'3:Ea0 B      >DD4   
1 .    , ,   . '                   4    <XV-V' -0-, '    .                                           I   K    f
.~~~~ '390 3  ' 0 .:                                                                        1 00AJ,.
tI,.tSl6,ttliJ,..Vj*;1 ,i7.*p> . - '.
N/fl;3 tt 4 o 4         *0"- "--  ' 
~~090m30on hllt90OlO~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~an 



