Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2864-KE
KENYA FISHERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 14, 1980
East Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units            =       Kenyan Shillings (K Sh)
US$1                      =        K Sh 7.5  1/
K Sh 1.00                 =       US$0.133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                  British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                         =        3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)                       =       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2            =        0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )             =       0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                      =       2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                          =       0.26 US gallon (gal)
=       0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                 =       2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
CBK     -  Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd.
ICDC    -  Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
KFC     -  Kenya Fishnet Company Ltd.
KFI     -  Kenya Fishing Industries, Ltd.
MOCD    - Ministry of Cooperative Development
MENR    -  Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MOW     -  Ministry of Works
FISCAL YEAR
Government, CBK   -        July 1 to June 30
1/ Since October 1975 the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR = K Sh 9.66; the rate vis-a-vis the US dollar has fluctuated
since that time, and US$ = K Sh 7.5, the average rate prevailing at the
time of appraisal has been used in evaluating this Project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ................................................                   I
A. Project Background   1 ... . .1
B. The Agricultural Sector..                     .        .                  1
C.  The Fisheries Subsector                 ......................... .      2
D. Government Services to Fisheries .                     .                  9
E. Fisheries Credit                   . . .10
F. Commercial Services .... . .12
G. Marketing and Processing                       . . .    13
II. THE PROJECT ..15
A. General Description   . .15
B. The Project Area                     . . ......16
C. Detailed Features                  . . .16
D.  Project Costs           . ........................................    24
E. Financing              ..........25
F.  Procurement ........................................   .27
G.  Disbursements  .        . .......................................    28
H. Accounts and Audit                         . . .    29
I. Environmental Impact . .... . .29
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .30
A.  Project Management and Staffing           .      .                     30
B. Management of Project Components                . . .31
C.  Project Implementation Schedule ..............           . .... .    33
D. Monitoring and Evaluation                  .        . .35
IV. PROJECT PRODUCTION .35
A. Technical Features    ..35
B. Financial Benefits    ..37
C. Production Estimates.                .....37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Kenya in July-August 1979, composed of Messrs. S. Capoluongo,
F. Kada, B. Mbida-Essama (IDA), J. Brown, J. Moller, and Y. Pruginin
(Consultants). A follow-up mission composed of Messrs. S. Capoluongo
and Y. Gazzo visited Kenya in January-February 1980.
This d"menr has a restricted distribution and may be ucd by recipients only in the performance
of    eMciii duties. Its contents may not otherwist be disc losed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                                  Page No.
V.  MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES ..............................                  38
A.  Markets .......................................................... #   38
B.  Prices ............ ..  ............ * ........ a *a***...............  39
VI.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION              ......................      39
A.  Benefits .......... .....   O*.........................................  39
B.  Economic Rate of Return .          ....................     .....      40
C.  Risks .................                    ....... ............        40
D.  Sensitivity Analysis ..* ........  ........ . o........... .            41
E.  Income Distribution and Employment ...................                 41
VII.  GOVERNMENT BUDGET  - .... ..... ... . ......... ..  ............  .. ...... .  42
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONS . ....... .............................            42
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS, AND ILLUSTRATIONS
TABLES
Table 1.  Proposed Staffing
Table 2.  Project Costs Summary
Table 3.  Government Cash Flow
Table 4.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 5.  Economic Rate of Return
CHARTS
Chart 1.  Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources,
Department of Fisheries
Chart 2.  Project Management
MAPS
Map 1. Kenya - Project Areas - IBRD 14619
Map 2. Kenya - Lake Victoria - IBRD 14620
Map 3. Kenya - Indian Ocean Coast - IBRD 14621



- iii -
ILLUSTRATIONS
Fig. 1. Gill Net and Long Line
World Bank 20825
Fig. 2. Bottom Trawl Net and Beach Seine
World Bank 20826
Fig. 3. Dip Net and Midwater Trawl Net
World Bank 20827
Fig. 4. Gill Net Boat
World Bank 20828
Fig. 5. "Sesse" Canoe
Fig. 6. "Mashua" Dhow
Fig. 7. Nile Perch
Fig. 8. Fish Farming Development Center
World Bank 20835
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME






KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project
1.01      In June 1979, the Government of Kenya requested that the Bank Group
consider financing a Fisheries Project. The Project had been prepared by the
Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, with
assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. Most Project investments
would be in Nyanza province, along Lake Victoria, and in Coast province along
the Indian Ocean shore. The main Project objectives would include an improve-
ment of the productivity of small scale fishermen in marine and freshwater
fisheries and the development of fish farming. This report is based on the
findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited Kenya in July-August 1979,
composed of Messrs. S. Capoluongo, F. Kada, B. Mbida-Essama (IDA), J. Brown,
J. Moller, and Y. Pruginin (Consultants). Ms. R. Deen (IDA) joined the team
during the latter part of the mission. Several changes were made at appraisal:
proposed investments in shore facilities were expanded and mechanized vessels
were reduced to assist a large number of artisanal fishermen, rather than a
few industrial operators; the cooperative infrastructure was expanded to
provide better marketing services. The mission recommended that warm water
fish farming be developed in a location better suited than Sagana, in Central
province.
B. Agricultural Sector
1.92      Kenya has a total area of 583,000 km  and of this more than 10,000
km is covered by lakes and rivers. It is a country of great topographical,
climatic and soil contrasts. Kenya's population is estimated at 14.7 million
(mid-1979) and is growing at the rate of about 3.5% per year; about 90% of the
population is rural and depends on agriculture for a livelihood. There are
wide variations in population density, settlement patterns and production
systems.
1.03      Kenya's 1978 GDP in current market prices was estimated at about
K Sh 40.8 billion, of which about K Sh 288 million (US$38.4 million) was
contributed by the Fisheries sub-sector (para. 1.05). The average annual
income of the rural population is estimated at K Sh 758 (US$101) in 1979.
This figure is based on the First Agricultural Rural Survey for Kenya, which
was carried out in 1974-75, and concentrated on the smallholder sector. Since
this is the only available survey of rural incomes, its income estimates have
been adjusted as far as possible and are used as a proxy for the rural popula-
tion as a whole. A broad distinction can be made between the large farms,



2-
including Government farms, and the roughly 1.5 million smallholdings in
Kenya, most of which are farmed by their owners.  Maize i5 the staple crop
but a range of other crops is grown by smallholders, most of whom also have
a few head of livestock, and some 3,000 of whom are engaged in aquaculture
(para. 1.08).
1.04      During the period 1972-78 agriculture grew at an average annual rate
of 2.6%, in real terms, lower than the average annual growth rate of 4.2% it
achieved from 1964-73. Agricultural output also grew more slowly than the
economy and the industrial sector, which grew at over 5% and 8% respectively
during 1972-78. The share of agriculture in total GDP declined from about 35%
in 1972 to 30% in 1978. Poor weather conditions and high prices of inputs
after the 1973 oil price increases were the main reasons for the slow growth
during 1974-76. This trend was reversed in 1977 when, as a result of the boom
in world coffee prices and good weather, agriculture grew over 9%. In 1978
agricultural growth declined again to under 2% per annum, owing to the cumula-
tive effect of a drop in world prices for coffee and tea, and adverse weather.
Kenya is a net importer of certain agricultural products including fish.
1.05      With little high potential land remaining uncultivated, the growing
population is applying increasing pressure to develop lower potential areas,
forests and waters, making action for effective resource management of para-
mount importance. The current contribution of the fisheries sector to GDP
is less than 1% (para. 1.03), but the Government recognizes the importance
of fisheries to employment and nutrition. In the 1979-83 development plan,
the Government seeks to increase total annual fish landings by 30%, to about
60,000 tons by 1983.
C. The Fisheries Sub-sector
1.06      Little is known about potential fisheries resources.  Kenya has 640
km of coastline on the Indian Ocean, numerous lakes (para. 1q02), and several
thousand fishponds. Average annual fish production stabilized at about 30,000
tons from 1971 to 1975. Freshwater fisheries provided about 80% of total
production; marine fisheries, 20%. During the same period, Lake Victoria
alone accounted for over 85% of all freshwater catches. Largely as a result
of higher catches in Lake Turkana, total fish production increased to about
41,000 tons in 1976 and 1977, and to 46,400 tons in 1978. There is some
evidence of overfishing of certain species of fish in Lake Victoria, but otheL7
species are believed to be underexploited. Fish farming is relatively little
developed and there seems to be a potential for a higher output than is now
being harvested.
1.07      Fish consumption varies greatly among population groups and is
highest in the vicinity of the principal bodies of water and in the citieso
A substantial amount of Lake Victoria fish production is consumed in Nyanza
and Western Provinces, which account for about one third of the entire popula-
tion of Kenya. Average annual per capita fish consumption was estimated at
about kg 3.5 in 1978, and is significantly lower than in neighboring countries
(para. 1.56). One reason for the relatively low consumption of fish appears
to be insufficient supply. Kenya exports high value shellfish and imports
cheap processed fish but continues to be a net importer.



1.08      It is estimated that fishing provides the main source of income
to about 31,000 active fishermen and to a large number of fish traders.
Approximately 3,000 smallholder farmers are said to be engaged in fishfarming.
Both marine and inland fishing methods are generally traditional and labor-
intensive, and operations are limited to shallow waters. Most of the catch
comes from about 7,000 small craft landing between 20 and 50 kgs per fishing
day each. The marketing and processing of fish is mainly in the hands of
private dealers. Prices to fishermen range between 20% and 30% of the retail
value. Most fish is consumed fresh for lack of adequate preservation facili-
ties. Few fishing cooperatives are strong enough to provide effective
marketing services to their members.
1.09      The Department of Fisheries of the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources has primary responsibility for fisheries development. Other
Ministries, including the Ministries of Cooperative Development, of Works, and
of Power and Communications are responsible for activities related to fishing
operations and trials (para 1.38). Kenya Fishing Industries Ltd. (KFI), a
Government owned company, owns a trans-shipment cold storage facility in
Mombasa and operates two trawling vessels (para. 1.52).
Freshwater Fisheries
1.10      About 90% of all fish landings in 1978 were made in freshwater
fisheries. Lake Turkana and the Kenyan waters of Lake Victoria account for
about 95% of total freshwater landings. The remaining 5% comes from smaller
lakes: Baringo, Naiviasha, Nakuru, Jupe, Hannington and Elmentaita and from
the rivers such as tte Tana, Nzoia, Yala, and Sabaki.
111      Lake Victoria, located 1,100 m above sel level, is one of the largest
in the world with a total area of about 67,000 km . Its waters fall within
the national boundaries of Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. The Kenya shore is
the shortest but most experts agree that Kenya's Nyanza Gulf is one of its
most productive parts. The chichlid fish family is the most numerous with
Tilapia and Haplochromis predominating. Stocks of Engraulicypris, an anchovy-
like fish which feeds near the water surface, are now believed to be substan-
tial. Only few species of tilapia are present but over 150 species of
haplochromis have been observed. The three fishing zones are: shallow,
0-10 m depth; mid-depth, 10-20 m; deep, 20-65 m. Few fish are caught beyond
65 m. Most tilapia are found in the shallow zone because they build nests
there and establish a defined territory around them. While the data are
inadequate, there is some evidence of overfishing in this zone, as total catch
is at best stable; catch per unit of effort, and the average size of fish
caught seem to be declining.
1.12      Little fishing is done in the mid-depth zone, but it is probable
that fish from this zone contribute significantly to the present catch.
Exploratory trawling in deep waters was conducted under the FAO/UNDP Lake
Victoria Fisheries Research Project, from 1968 to 1972. Virtually no tilapia
was caught in trawls outside 20 m depth, but catches of haplochromis were
substantial. Tentative estimates of the annual sustainable yield of



- 4 -
haplochromis from the whole Lake are about 200,000 tons. However, since only
a small part of deep waters belongs to Kenya, the potential yield from its
territorial waters would be a small fraction of the total and subject to
annual end seasonal variations due to likely migrations of fish.
1.13      An estimated 18,000 fishermen operate about 4,000 canoes which vary
in length from seven to 10 m. All these craft sail in shallilow waters, up to
10 km from the shore. The larger canoes are used for transport of people,
fish, and goods. "Sesse" canoes (Fig. 5) are mostly used for fishing. These
are narrow beamed, planked canoes seven to eight meters long. They are built
locally with hand-ripped planks using a unique frameless construction method
which produces a very light and easily driven hull. There are also a few
dug-out canoes.
1.14      Water and wind conditions are generally favorable for small boat
navigation. Afternoon breezes often alternate in direction with night
zephyrs making it possible to sail almost anywhere in the Nyanza Gulf by
simply waiting for a favorable wind.  When calms prevail, the light "Sesse"
canoes (para. 1.13) can be propelled on any course by paddle, or by being
"shagged" along in shallow water using a pole.
1.15      The main method used to catch tilapia and other high value species
is gillnet fishing (Fig. 1). Fishermen cast their nets overnight in the
lake and haul them in the next day to collect their catches. The mesh sizes
of the npts vary from 1-1/2 to 7 inches. The nets are washed and mended once
a week. The fish that are gilled early die and remain in warm water up to 12
hours before being collected. During transport from thE fishing ground
to the landing beach, the fish temperature may reach up to 350C.  Spoilage
from bacterial action and autolysis therefore may start even before the fish
is landed. The fishermen do not use ice at any stage.
1.16      Some high value table fish as well as haplochromis and engraulicypris
are also harvested with beach seines (Fig. 2) inside and outside the Nyanza
Gulf, wherever smooth beaches are found. The seines are 'rom 50 m to 100 m
long. The mesh size in the bag is small, 2 cm or less stretched, but bigger
in the wings. Beach seining, especially for haplochromis, appears to be
increasing.
1.17      Catches of engraulicypris have increased from less than 800 tons
in 1971 to nearly 8,710 tons in 1978. As this tiny fish is easily attracted
by light, it is caught by dip net seining (Fig. 3) at night with the aid of
kerosene lamps. Because this fishing is done close to shore, dug-out canoes
can be used and sails are not necessary. The lamps are sometimes set on
floats and a beach seine with a very fine mesh is used.
1.18      Predators account for about 1,900 tons or 20% of the total catch
in the lake.  The main species are Claria, Bagrus and Lates (Nile perch).
The latter (Fig. 7) was introduced to Lake Victoria about 20 years ago from
Uganda, and has gradually spread to the Nyanza Gulf where its stock is
believed to be steadily increasing. These predator species are caught by



5-
using long lines baited with various types of fish (Fig. 1). Longlining is
cheaper than gillnetting, though less popular because it is less productive.
Sport fishermen have been catching large Nile perch by trolleying with arti-
ficial lures.
2
1.19      Lake Turkana.  With an area of 6,405 km , Lake Turkai.  is the
largest body of inland water in Kenya. It is situated in the northwest of
the country in a semi-desert and extends southward from the Ethiopian border
(Map 1). Because the lake has no outlet, its waters are highly alkaline with
a pH of about 9.6. Water depths in 80% of the lake are less than 40 m.
1.20      Commercial fishing by traditional methods began in the 1960s, when
the Government promoted Turkana settlement to try to alleviate famine. Fish
landings increased steadily from less than a thousand tons in 1964 to an
estimated 15,600 tons in 1978. Estimates of sustainable yields vary widely;
some experts have been predicting for some time that yields would stabilize
around 5,000 tons per year; others believe that the lake is capable of sub-
stantially higher yields than are currently attained. The results of an
echosounding and trawling survey undertaken with U.K. bilateral assistance
have not yet been released.
1.21      A fishermen's cooperative society was organized in 1971 and operates
with Norwegian bilateral assistance. While fish landings have reportedly
increased each year from 1970 to 1978, the Turkana cooperative has recently
experienced severe marketing problems. Dried salted fish used to be exported
to Zaire, but demand is down due to that country's economic difficulties.
This product is not selling well in Kenya, and unsold inventories are squeez-
ing the cooperative's liquidity. While a Norwegian processing expert is
testing ways to improve the quality of the dried fish, two additional invest-
ments are expected to improve the marketing of Lake Turkana fish substantially:
a seven ton ice plant, and a road to Kitale. NORAD, the Norwegian bilateral
aid agency, has agreed to finance both. The combined effect of these two
investments would be to increase the availability of fresh fish in Kisumu and
Nairobi which have good road connections with Kitale.
1.22      The smaller lakes and rivers are generally fully fished, and annual
landings from these waters decreased gradually from about 2,400 tons in 1967
to about 1,800 tons in 1978. In Lake Baringo, heavy silting has led to
water turbidity resulting in a reduction in primary food production and a
lower capacity to carry fish stock. In Lake Naivasha commercial catches
decreased from about 1,000 tons in 1967 to about 260 tons in 1978, mainly
as a result of Salvinia infestation.
Marine Fisheries
1.23      Most of Kenya's ocean coast is fringed by coral reefs close to
shore. Beyond the reefs, less than three miles offshore, the water is at
least 100 fathoms deep, except for the North Kenya Banks (Map 3), where the
100 fathom line is five to 20 miles offshore. To the west of the North Kenya



-6-
Banks are fringing coral reefs and parts of the shelf are quite rough.
Consequently the area of smooth bottom-suitable for shallow water trawling
(Fig. 2) is extremely limited.
1.24      The Fisheries Department reported marine production of about 4,600
tons in 1978. This represents an increase of 8% over the 4,300 tons reported
for 1977. Landings from about ten trawlers operating in the Ungwama Bay,
north of Malindi (Map 3) are excluded from these statistics. Also excluded
are about 4,500 tons landed in Mombasa from deep sea tuna fishing vessels.
The Fisheries Department statistics show that about one half of the catches
were demersal species, about one fifth pelagic species, and the rest crustacea,
sharks, oysters, squid and game fish.
1.25      The bulk of the production is harvested by artisanal fishermen
using about 2,000 small sailing craft. They fish at the reefs with hand
lines, drifting gillnets, trolling lines, and, in inlets, with traps. The
fishermen also dive, collecting lobsters and sea slugs by hand.
1.26      Sea and wind conditions along Kenya's coast are favorable for
coastal navigation. Major storms such as typhoons or hurricanes are unkrown.
Many natural harbors provide shelter for small craft. Small craft can be
beached on the south coast where few harbors exist because the barrier reef
shelters the shore from ocean waves. From September through April, the
Northeast monsoon (Map 3) blows at Beaufort Force 3 (8 to 12 m.p.h.), with
calms occurring only two percent of the time. Gentle breezes blow against the
prevailing ocean current (Map 3) but are not strong enough to generate steep
waves. These conditions are ideally suited for safe and efficient sailing.
During the rainy season, from May to August, moderate breezes at Beaufort
Force 4 (13 to 18 m.p.h.) prevail, but winds of Beaufort Force 5 (18 to 25
m.p.h.) occur up to 40% of the time. Gale fcrce winds of 30 to 50 m.p.h.
blow less than two percent of the time, but they are unpredictable and may be
hazardous to small sailing craft venturing over five miles offshore (Map 3).
1.27      Traditional boatbuilding on the ocean coast is sharply different
from that on Lake Victoria. Two distinct building traditions can be iden-
tified in the north and in the south. South of Mombasa (Map 3) most of the
traditional craft are dug-out canoes propelled by sail and paddle; their
construction requires an entire mature tree for the one-piece hull and is,
therefore, wasteful of timber. As supply is limited, log quality is diminish-
ing. Because of poor handling characteristics in rough water, these canoes
can operate only during the fair season of northeast monsoons, or within the
area protected by the reefs along the shore. This area of Kenya needs improved
fishing vessels.
1.28      North of Malindi, and particularly in and around the Lamu Archipelago
(Map 3), a vigorous boatbuilding tradition exists. Sailing vessels over 30 m
long are still locally built for carrying international cargoes. Numerous
fishing boats from seven to 10 m long are built and operated on the North coast.
Their design and construction reveal Portuguese and Arab influences. Known
locally as mashuas (Fig. 6), these boats are solidly constructed by skilled
boatbuilders from noble timber in fair supply. They are seaworthy and cost



effective because they operate almost exclusively under sail. Nonetheless,
meteorological conditions (para. 1.26) limit the operation of these mashua
dhows to less than 200 days a year, and usually to within five miles of the
shore.
1.29      There are several privately-owned freezing-at-sea trawlers with
expatriate crews based in Mombasa which trawl the shallow waters of Ungama Bay
for shrimp (Fig. 2). Since these boats are not equipped to hold the fish that
is caught in fairly large quantities together with the shrimp, they discard it.
It is estimated that the tonnage of fish discarded is from five to 10 times
the shrimp tonnage and would represent about the same value if landed.
1.30      An estimated 70% of juvenile shrimp living along the Kenya shores
have their natural habitat in the extensive mangrove swamps that border the
Lamu Archipelago (Map 3). Shrimp fishing is done with traps and small
sail-operated trawls. Relatively small quantities are now harvested due to
the lack of ice and transport. Ice plants and cold stores exist only in
Mombasa.
1.31      In the Lamu Archipelago, there is good fishing for a variety of
high-priced demersal species including snappers and groupers. The fishermen,
however, limit their fishing efforts to the periods of the unscheduled visits
of the fish collecting boats that come from Mombasa supplied with ice. Ice
supplies and regular inter-island transport would allow fuller exploitation of
the existing fishing capacity even with the simple sail craft and gear now in
use. Mechanized fishing with more seaworthy craft powered by simple inboard
diesel engines could Lead to further expansion of fishery activities in that
area.
1.32      Present landings of pelagic fish are recorded at only 800 tons in
1978. However, trial fishing for pelagic species such as Sardinella and
Carangids was conducted along the South Coast and has shown promising results
(Map 3). Shimoni could develop into an important fishing center. It is
located close to the Pemba Channel and to the protected grounds to the west
towards Vanga where gillnetting and driftnetting can be used during the
off-season for purse seining and other pelagic fishing.
1.33      Fishing for lobsters, crabs and molluscs is on a modest scale and
total catches were about 366 tons in 1978. The sailing canoes involved in
this type of fishing carry divers who collect these species by hand. Explora-
tory fishing for lobster, undertaken off the north coast, has had only modest
results so far.
Aguaculture
1.34      Fish farming was introduced in Kenya some 25 years ago by the
colonial administration, but it is still at an early stage of development.
Except for some commercial trout farms on the slopes of Mount Elgon and Mount
Kenya, most fish farmers grow tilapia in Western and Nyanza provinces, prin-
cipally for home consumption. The number of tilapia ponds smaller than one
acre has been officially estimated at about 9,000. Most of them, however,



- 8 -
have been abandoned for lack of technical knowledge and proper extension
service. The Fisheries Department distributed tilapia fingerlings free of
charge without providing the necessary technical guidance. Farmers did not
know, for example, what to feed and when to harvest. Although a few well
managed farms may have attained yields of three tons per ha per year,
overall yields are estimated to average about 300 kg per ha per year. No
reliable sZatistics are available for the total production of fish ponds.
1.35      The Government Station, located at Sagana, Central Province, was
established in the early 1950s by the Department of Fisheries to conduct
research on tilapia farming. By 1959, a total of about 15 ha of experimental
ponds with individual sizes ranging from 0.25 to 1.5 ha had been developed.
The Station is staffed with one Fishery Officer, technicians and fish scouts.
One of the miajor activities at the Station is the propagation and distribution
of fish seeds for stocking fish farms and other bodies of public waters.
Some experiments on feeds and feeding of common carp and on hybridization
of tilapia are being carried out, but little information is available as to
practical needs of fish farm development, management and production. This
affects the efficiency of field extension workers, as they are lacking in
practical training.
1.36      In manv parts of Kenya, the environment and resources are favorable
for warm water fish farming.  Market demand for fresh tilapia is strong, and
the Government encourages fish consumption. Nevertheless, the country has
benefited little from its aquaculture development efforts. There are
several reasons for the unsatisfactory performance. Many ponds, including
those at Sagana, are located in areas unsuited to warm wc ter fish growth.
Soil and water acidity in most ponds is too high and the pH factor below 7;
the ideal range is between 7 and 9 pH.  Water temperatures below 20 0C prevail
at Sagana and at most ponds in Western and Nyanza provinces, while tempera-
tures above 240C are required for satisfactory growth.  Ponds are far from
each other; the long distances make it impossible for extension officers to
visit farmers regularly. There is gap between fish farming development and
research. The research carried out at Sagana is of little practical relevance.
As a result, no technical basis for extension has been established. The
extension workers are not properly trained, therefore they cannot teach
farmers effectively (para. 1.40). Another reason for the slow progress of
fish farming could be that in some areas where it has been introduced, people
traditionally do not eat fish.
1.37      The potential for aquaculture development in the tidal swamplands
along the ocean coast has been recognized by several surveys carried out with
bilateral and multilateral assistance. An FAO/UNDP pilot project for coastal
equaculture is currently testing ways to develop this potential, mainly for
shrimp culture.



- 9 -
D. Government Services to Fisheries
1.38      Primary responsibility for the development of fisheries is vested
in the Department of Fisheries of the Ministry of Environment Pnd Natural
Resources. A number of other Ministries carry responsibility oGr certain
activities which bear directly on the conduct of fishing operations and
trials. The Ministry of Cooperative Development has a Fisheries Section which
is responsible for fishermen's cooperatives; the Ministry of Works is respon-
sible for feeder roads linking fishing centres with arterial highways and
railheads; the Ministry of Transport and Communications is responsible for
harbors and fish landing facilities on the lakes. Kenya Fishing Industries
Ltd., set up as a joint venture in 1970 to operate a trans-shipment base for
deep-sea tuna from the Indian Ocean, is now fully Government-owned and is
expanding its activities in marine Fisheries (para. 1.52).
1.39      The Fisheries Department of the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources 1s responsible for fisheries. It is staffed mainly by officers
trained in the biological sciences. Staffing is insufficient to meet all the
needs of the fisheries sector. In common with other Government agencies, the
Fisheries Department rotates its field staff at frequent intervals. While
this familiarizes staff with a greater range of problems, it also means that
the continuity of research and other programs is broken. Research is also
hampered by lack of clear guidance on research priorities. The Department
does limited economic research. Headed by the Director of Fisheries who
reports to the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources, the Department is divided into four divisions. Each division is
led by an Assistant Director: (i) Inland Fisheries - Central; (ii) Inland
Fisheries - West; (iii) Marine Fisheries; and (iv) Research and Development
(Chart 1).
1.40      The Department has a staff of 432 including 24 graduates who occupy
most of the senior positions. The largest group is the 200 fish scouts who,
together with the 65 Fishery Assistants, are involved in extension work. The
total number of active fishermen is estimated at about 31,000; the ratio of
fishermern to extension officers is therefore roughly 120:1, which would
appear adequate. This ratio, however, excludes the requirements for fish
farming. Furthermore, the effectiveness of extension officers is impaired
in several ways: most of them have inadequate technical background and
require intensified in-service training, particularly in fish farming.
Extension services also suffer from inadequate recurrent budgetary support
which seriously affects staff mobility and effectiveness.
1.41      Research.  Until the end of June 1977, long-term fisheries research
was done by the now defunct East African Community Fisheries Research institu-
tions. With the collapse of the East African Community, responsibility for
all fisheries research has devolved upon the Government. Consequently, a
national fisheries research unit has been established. The unit will be
expanded during the current Plan period. Meanwhile an existing arrangement
between the Fisheries Department and the University of Nairobi for collabora-
tion in fisheries research is being strengthened.



- 10 -
1.42      Training.  The building of the proposed Wildlife and Fisheries
Training Institute at Naivasha will be completed in 1980, with the first intake
being accepted in 1981. The Institute will provide technical training to
public officers in the middle and lower cadres of the service. The training
of senior officers and of research fisheries officers will continue to be
undertaken in local and foreign universities.
The Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD)
1.43      MOCD supervises the cooperative unions and societies providing them
with management advice. It consists of one Department headed by the Commis-
sioner for Cooperative Development who has wide powers to regulate the co-
operatives. The Cooperative Act of February 1977 spells out MOCD's role in
controlling and guiding the cooperative unions and societies in both their
policies and day-to-day operations. The Ministry's aim is to develop and
guide unions and societies until they are capable of running their own affairs.
1.44      The Cooperative Movement.  The cooperative movement of Kenya was
initiated more than 30 years ago and has grown continuously since then. Many
of the rural poor are outside the cash economy and have no access to commercial
services. They rely on the cooperatives for input supplies, storage, and
marketing. At the end of 1977, there were about 1,400 active cooperative
societies with a membership of about one million families. About one quarter
of the estimated 31,000 fishermen are members of one of 34 fishermen's socie-
ties. Over half of these are on Lake Victoria, one quarter on the ocean
coast and the balance on other major lakes. Several marine fishermen's
societies, including those at Lamu, Shimoni and Vanga are commercially viable.
Others, many of which are on Lake Victoria, are financially weak and have so
far been unable to provide adequate service to their members. Many of the
latter limit themselves to collecting a 10% commission from the fishmongers
who buy fish at their landing beaches. Because the turnover of these socie-
ties is low, commissions are hardly sufficient to cover their administrative
expenses and no funds are available to provide services to their members.
On average, it is estimated that fishermen's societies market about 15% of
the total catch.
E. Fisheries Credit
1.45      Credit to fishermen and fish farmers is available through institu-
tions in the organized credit market and through individuals, mainly fish-
mongers, operating in an informal market. The little institutional credit
that is provided is mainly under the Fishermen Loans Scheme which is operated
by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Other potential sources
include commercial banks, the Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd (CBK) and the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).



- 11 -
Fishermen Loans Scheme
1.46      As spelled out in the 1969 Fisheries Act, for the purpose of pro-
moting modern fishing methods, the Minister may prepare a scheme providing
for financial assistance by way of loans to fishermen in respect of expenditure
incurred in t..e acquisition of fishing vessels or their gear, fishing nets and
other equipment. Such a scheme has been in operation for more than 10 years.
It is administered by a Loans to Fishermen Central Committee established
specifically for the purpose. Chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry
of Environment and Natural Resources, this Committee consists of the Director,
Fisheries Department, the Senior Accountant responsible for Environment and
Natural Resources, the Senior Trade Development Officer in charge of loans,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry and a maximum of three persons, who are
not civil servants and who are appointed by the Minister for Environment and
Natural Resources. The ceiling for loans for specific purposes is set by the
Central Committee. The present loan ceiling is KSh2O,OOO. Applicants for
larger amounts are advised to approach other lending bodies. Securities
include land with title deed or plot number, permanent buildings and insurance
policies; cattle, canoes and cash are not acceptable. The interest on loans
continues to be 6.5% p.a. as set when the scheme was originally started. The
rate of default from past operations is high with most loans still unrecovered
or completely lost. Apart from lack of supervision, an explanation for this
situation is that the boats given to the fishermen in the original scheme were
not acceptable to them. Under the present scheme, which is currently under
revision, use is to be made of local boatbuilders who would be supervised by
the Fisherit's Office-s.
1.47      The Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd._(CBK).  CBK was established to
stabilize the financial resources of the cooperative movement (para. 1.44)
and utilize these funds for lending to the movement. CBK was registered as
a Cooperative Society in 1965 and as a Commercial Bank in 1968. About 1,000
cooperative unions and societies are members and shareholders of CBK. They
represent about 80% of registered unions and societies. Only members may keep
an account at CBK. CBK is the on-lending vehicle for three Bank group financed
projects. They are: The First Integrated Agricultural Development Project
(IADP I) (Cr. 650-KE/1303-KE), the Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project
(SCIP) (Cr. 914-KE), and the Second Integrated Agricultural Development
Project (IADP II). Under all three projects, CBK finances loans from co-
operative unions and societies to smallholders. IADP I became effective in
1977, SCIP became effective in 1979, and IADP II was approved by the Board in
December 1979, but the credit agreement has not yet been signed. Performance
of cooperative credit to smallholders under IADP I has been poor, mainly
because some of the participating cooperatives were weak and inefficient.
Under IADP II, the Government is taking measures to strengthen the coopera-
tives and improve their management.
1.48      At June 30, 1978 CBK had K Sh 233 million (US$31 million) loans
outstanding and total assets of K Sh 569 million (US$76 million). Every year
since it began operations, CBK has shown a profit and paid income taxes.
CBK's profitability in fiscal 1978 was satisfactory, its liquidity high, and
its capitalization adequate. Past due loans at October 31, 1978 were equal



- 12 -
to 38% of outstanding loans. About half of the past due loans were one to
90 days in arrears. While those percentages are high, they do not accurately
reflect contractual extensions of loan maturities. Extensions are often
granted to societies and members informally for legitimate reasons and they
are not properly accounted for by the Cooperative Unions. In addition,
credit-worthy Unions sometimes relend to their members the proceeds of loan
collections, rather than formally repaying CBK and reborrowing under the
same credit facility, because to do so would be lengthy and cumbersome.
1.49      There are ten Directors on CBK's Board.  Six of them represent the
Cooperative Movement; four, the Government. The General Manager is the chief
operating officer and reports to the Board of Directors. CBK has two Depart-
ments: one has line responsibilities, and the other has staff support func-
tions. It employs about 55 people, 25 of whom are professional staff.
Agricultural Finance Corporation
1.50      AFC was established in 1963 to assist in the development of agri-
culture and agricultural industries. It is now the main credit channel for
small and medium-scale farmers; particularly for long-term schemes including
IDA credits. Only two loans have been made for fish farming so far.
F. Commercial Services
1.51      A number of private companies and individuals are active in the
fisheries sector. The Government has an equity interest in three of them.
Commercial operators are mostly engaged in fish marketing, ocean fishing and
boat building. The Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC)
is a widely diversified holding company which aims to promote foreign invest-
ment in Kenya. The Government of Kenya has a controlling interest in ICDC
which in turn holds 100% of the shares in Kenya Fishing Industries Ltd. (KFI),
and 43% of the shares of Kenya Fishnet Company Ltd. (KFC).
1.52      KFI was organized in 1970 as a joint venture of ICDC, Taiyo Fishery
Company Ltd., Ataka & Co., and the Maritime Company. It built a jetty and
freezer storage with a capacity of 1,800 tons in Mombasa. This cold store
was to be used as a trans-shipment facility for the deep sea tuna longliners
operated by Taiyo, a Japanese Company. The trans-shipment, however, became
financially unattractive after the oil price increases of 1974, and the
turnover at the KFI plant decreased from over 7,000 tons in 1974 to about 600
tons in 1976. In 1977, ICDC took over the shares of the Japanese partners,
and in 1978 it took over the remaining shares, to become the sole KFI share-
holder. KFI has ordered two tuna longliners, each displacing 250 gross tons,
from Korea. The vessels would initially be operated by an all-Korean crew,
to be gradually replaced by Kenyans. KFI plans to acquire two more vessels
in 1981. Plans also exist to establish a fish cannery, and a fish meal
processing plant.



- 13 -
1.53      KFC was organized in 1971 to manufacture fishing nets for the
domestic market. ICDC owns 43% of KFC's equity, and Hirata Spinning Co. Ltd.,
45%. PrIvate Kenyan interests, including several fishermen's cooperative
societies own the remaining 12% of the shares. KFC imports yarn from Japan
and manufactures the nets in its seven year old plant in Kisumu. It employs
about 80 people, all Kenyans except for the Managing Director ana the chief
engineer who are Japanese. Plant capacity is more than adequate to supply
the domestic market. KFC has 12 retail outlets throughout Kenya, but it also
sells to independent retailers who earn a 13% mark-up.
1.54      Several private companies are engaged in wholesale and retail fish
marketing, cold storage and transport. The largest ones include Samaki Indus-
tries (Kenya) Ltd., Kenya Cold Stores, Wanainchi Marine Products, and Ocean
Products. While these are primarily fish traders, some of them operate their
own commercial fishing vessels. They deal mostly in marine products, but
one of them actively trades freshwater fish. Nearly all sales are made in
Nairobi, Mombasa, and overseas.
1.55      There are a few experienced builders of modern mechanized offshore
vessels. They manufacture mainly sport-fishing and leisure craft. Specialized
Mouldings Ltd., a Nairobi firm, has developed simple designs for inshore
trawlers of 33' and 45' overall length. The Department of Fisheries has
purchased one and operates it on Lake Victoria for experimental trawling.
G. Marketing and Processing
1.56      The average per capita consumption of fish in Kenya was estimated at
about 3.5 kg per person per year in 1978. While this represents an increase
over the 2.5 kg annual per capita consumption in the early 1970's, it is still
low compared to that of neighboring countries. Average per capita fish con-
sumption in Uganda and Tanzania is estimated to be more than 10 kg per year.
The limited supply appears to be the principal reason for the relatively low
fish consumption rates. Fisheries Department statistics show that, from 1970
to 1978, the prices of most fish species rose faster than most consumer prices.
Moreover, landed prices paid to fishermen generally appear to be more than
twice as high as the prices recorded by the Department of Fisheries. The
latter often reflect minimum prices payable to fishermen, rather than actual
transactions (para. 1.65).
1.57      In 1978, Kenya imported about 3,400 tons of fish and fish products,
worth about K Sh 18 million, according to the Department of Fisheries.
Fishmeal and canned fish represented a large share of these imports. Dry
sharks were shipped into Mombasa from Somalia and the Arabian peninsula for
consumption in the Coast province. Unspecified amounts of fresh water fish
are believed to have been imported from Uganda, much of it illegally. Exports,
mostly crustacea, were reported at about 600 tons, worth about K Sh 9 million
in 1978. Net imports of about 2,800 tons in 1978 were up 155% from 1,100 tons
in 1977. While exports decreased 25% from about 800 tons in 1977, imports



- 14 -
rose 80% from about 1900 tons in 1977. Exports were down because of trans-
portation difficulties to Zaire, the established market for Lake Turkana dried
fish (para 1.21). Imports were up mainly because of unusually strong demand
for processed fish products. No fish meal processing or fish canning is done
in Kenya.
Freshwater Fisheries
1.58      The marketing system for the Lake Victoria hinterland seems to be
competitive and relatively efficient, but the lack of infrastructure may
contribute to keeping prices relatively high. Fresh fish, particularly
tilapia, is preferred to processed fish, but only about one-third of the catch
is consumed fresh, because no ice is available along the Lake. Without ice
and chilled storage, the spoilage of fish is high (para. 1.15). Most small
fish such as engraulicypris and haplochromis is sundried on the beach. Table
size fish such as tilapia and catfish are smoked or roasted.
1.59      Within a few hours of capture, the fish is delivered to the numerous
landing beaches around the shore where private fishmongers individually buy up
small quantities which they sell in the adjacent area. Except for sorting
sheds at various sites, the beaches are without shore facilites. Conditions
of access roads are poor and the bicycle is a very common means of transport
(Fig. 7). Because of rough handling methods, the quality of fish suffers
considerably by the time it reaches the consumer.
1.60      The Kisumu City Council owns and operates a five ton flake ice plant
at the Municipal Fish Market. The plant was erected about nine years ago with
funds from USAID. Fishmongers pay K Sh 240 rent per month for a stall and are
supplied with ice. Maintenance and repair facilities for the ice plant are
inadequate and breakdowns, which occur from time to time, are lengthy.
1.61      There are at least three major retail markets for freshwater fish in
Nairobi. Fish is sold fresh, dried, and smoked. Fish traders who buy fresh
fish in Kisumu, bring their own ice from Nairobi. At least three quarters of
the ice is melted by the time the Nairobi-Kisumu round trip is completed.
Smoked and dried fish is transported primarily by bus, fresh fish mainly by
private car. There is a small, but growing demand for freshwater fish in
Coast Province.
Marine Fisheries
1.62      Marine catches are consumed in the fishing communities and nearby
villages, in the larger towns and cities, including Lamu, Malindi, and Mombasa,
and in the tourist resorts all along the coast. Marine products, packed in
ice, are also shipped regularly to Nairobi by train and by truck. Some
lobster, shrimp, and tuna are frozen in Mombasa and exported.
1.63      In Mombasa, four private companies own and operate ice plants with
capacities ranging from four to 10 tons per day each. KFI (para. 1.52) has a
cold store capacity of 1,800 tons. The price of ice ex-plant in Monbasa was
about K Sh 300 per ton in 1979.



- 15 -
1.64      North of Mombasa, the only ice plant is in the Malindi Fish Market.
This plant has been inoperative for several years and the municipality is about
to replace it with a two tons/day plant. South of Mombasa, the only ice plant
is in Shimoni and is also inoperative. If replaced, it could also serve Vanga,
an important canoe fishing village close to the Tanzanian border. In Ras
Ngomeni, KFI is currently building a fish receiving station which will be
equipped with an ice plant. Post-harvest losses are not as severe as they
are on Lake Victoria, because marine fish deteriorates more slowly than fresh
water fish. Moreover, in certain areas, notably the North Coast, the fishing
effort is limited due to the lack of adequate handling and refrigeration
facilities. Approximately one third of the fish supply for local consumption,
however, is sundried or smoked, in order to avoid waste. The market value of
processed fish is substantially lower than that of fresh fish.
1.65      Fish is largely sold through fishermen's cooperatives and the
minimum price to fishermen is regulated by the Government to provide an
incentive to fishermen. In practice, actual prices are much higher than
minimum prices (para. 1.56).
II. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
2.01      The principat objective of the proposed Project would be to increase
the incomes of fisherm_~n by increasing marketed fish production; post-harvest
losses would be reduced and fish quality improved by providing storage and
preservation facilities. Improved fishing craft and gear would enable fisher-
men to increase catches and productivity. The proposed pilot Fish Farming
Development Center would also contribute to increasing marketed fish production.
If its operation is successful, the Center could be the nucleus of a second
phase expansion. Outgrower fish ponds could be developed during this second
phase. The following Project components would be carried out over about six
years:
(a) development, expansion, and upgrading of shore facilities
for fish landing, storage, preservation, and marketing;
(b) provision of fishing craft and gear to fishermen;
(c) establishment of a Fish Farming Development Center;
(d) training, research, and studies; and
(e) management, monitoring, and evaluation.
2.02      A management team would be established in the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources to carry out the Project. A Project manager would be
responsible for implementing the Project and would report to the Permanent
Secretary. Three area managers, in Kisumu, Kabonyo, and Mombasa would each
be responsible for carrying out Project activities in lake fisheries, fish



- 16 -
farming, and marine fisheries respectively. They would report to the Project
manager.
B. The Project Area
2.03       Virtually all Project investments would be along the Lake Victoria
shore in Nyanza province, and along the ocean shore in the Coast Province.
About 23,856 tons or 51% of total Kenya landings were harvested in 1978 in
Lake Victoria; about 4,634 tons or 10% of the total, in the Indian Ocean.
The specific location of the main Project facilities has been determined
according to resource availability, concentration of fishermen, and lack of
existing infrastructure. Map 1 (IBRD 14619) shows the location of the Lake
Victoria Region and the Ocean Region. Map 2 (IBRD 14620) shows the Lake
Region in detail, the proposed sites for the Fishing Centers and the Fish
Farming Development Center, and the existing Fisheries Department installations
at Kisumu. Map 3 (IBRD 14621) shows the Ocean Region in detail, the proposed
sites for the Fishing Centers and Stations, and the existing Fisheries Depart-
ment installations at Mombasa and Malindi.
C.  Detailed Features
Shore Facilities
2.04      Fishing centers and stations would be developed on the Lake Victoria
and Indian Ocean shores. The main purpose of these facilities would be to
make ice available for the marketing of fresh fish. Ice is a powerful aid to
fish marketing in warm climates because it increases the storage life of fish
from a few hours to several days. At present, virtually no artisanal fisher-
men have access to ice in Kenya. Availability of ice is expected to reduce
post-harvest losses and induce fishermen to increase their fishing effort in
areas which have so far been under-exploited because of their remoteness.
2.05       Lake Victoria.  Eight fishing centers and nine fishing stations
would be developed at the main landing beaches along the Lake Victoria shore.
The Centers would be located at Port Victoria, Usengi, Misori, Kaloka, Homa
Bay, Mbita, Kindu Bay, and Karungu, (Map 2). The stations would be at Port
Southby, Naya, Kusa/Samo, Muhuru, Nyabiwa/Kitega, Wakola, Nyakweri, Luanda/
Canam and Sioport. Both fishing centers and stations would have sorting
sheds, insulated stores, drying racks and smoke houses, insulated ice boxes,
and fish boxes. The critical factor to determine fish storage capacity
would be ice-making capacity (para. 2.06); about 1 kg of ice is required to
store 1 kg of fish. The fishing centers would also be provided with offices,
stores, and housing for the managers. The centers would be larger than the
stations because the former are more accessible and would serve as main
collection as well as direct landing points. To facilitate access by land to
the centers, about 10 km. of approach roads would be built. The approach or
access roads would be constructed to standards now being used in the on-going
Rural Access Road Program. These standards provide for a top width of 4.5 m



- 17 -
on the subgrade with a gravel surface 4 m wide and 10 cm thick. Eight boats
would transport fish from the stations and other satellite beaches to the
centers. Their design would be basically the same as that of the gillnet
boats (Fig. 4), with a shorter overall length of 7.6 m.
2.06      Ice for the preservation of fish would be produced at Kisumu and
Homa Bay because of the availability of power and their proximity to the
other fish landing sites. The ice can be readily transported from these two
locations for use and storage with a minimum of difficulty. The Kisumu ice
plant would consist of four ice-making machines of one ton per 16 hours
capacity each. In addition to the ice plants, there would be one 10-ton
chillroom at Kisumu to provide flexibility during varying cycles of demand.
Homa Bay's ice manufacturing capacity would be provided by two one-ton ice
plants and the storage would be one five-ton chillroom. Flexibility to
preclude complete interruptions of production during breakdowns as well as
power outages is assured by the multiple machines combined with the chilled
storage at these two locations. If a machine needed repair, ice production
would proceed with the remaining plants in operation. Likewise, ice would
be in storage during a power interruption.
2.07      The investments would include fully equipped workshops, fuel tanks
with pumps, buildings for the ice plants and chillrooms at Kisumu and Homa
Bay. Power and water lines would be extended and transformers provided at
these locations to serve the plants, chillrooms and other buildings.
2.08      Five pick-up trucks at Kisumu and Homa Bay would be the means of
transporting ice by road to the centers and stations and bringing filsh back
if required. Each vehicle would carry up to a total load of 540 kg of ice for
each trip. Ice would be offloaded at each location as required for storage
of the fish on hand.
2.09      Each center would be staffed with a manager, an accountant/store
clerk, and two laborers. Kisumu and Homa Bay, however, would in addition
employ three and two mechanics with assistants respectively. Two machine
operators would be stationed at each of these locations. Station staffing
would consist of a station supervisor, who would keep the records as well as
supervise the station activities. Two laborers would maintain the facilities
as well as unload and load ice and fish.
2.10      Project investments include working capital funds to allow the
centers to meet start-up expenditures, finance their prepaid expenses and
inventory of fishing gear and supply, and maintain their liquidity.
2.11      Indian Ocean.  Three fishing centers would be established at Lamu,
Shimoni, and Vanga, and two small fishing stations, at Faza and Kisingitini
(Map 3). Each center would have a building to house the chillroom, a sorting
shed with scales, a fully equipped workshop to service the ice making equipment
and boat engines, a store, an office, a house for the manager, a fuel tank
with a pump, ice boxes and fish boxes. At Shimoni, water supply facilities
consisting of pumps, a pump house, piping and a reservoir would be installed
to supply the ice plant; the existing shed would be improved, and the office
enlarged.



- 18 -
2.12      In Lamu, four ice plants would be provided; in Shimoni, three.
Each individual ice plant would have a capacity of one ton per 16 hour-
period. At Lamu, there would be a seven-ton chillroom; Shimoni, five-ton;
and Vanga, two-ton. This combination of multiple ice Dlants with chill-
rooms would provide the flexibility necessary to cope with generator and
ice plant breakdowns. Since neither Shimoni nor Vanga has adequate power,
diesel powered generators would be provided to operate the ice plants and
chillrooms at those locations. In Lamu, the power and water lines would be
extended and a transformer would be provided.
2.13      The ice plants at Shimoni would serve Vanga and other landing
beaches south of Mombasa. Two pick-up trucks, one stationed at Shimoni and
the other one at Vanga, would provide transportation. Ice produced at Lamu
would be distributed to Faza and Kisingitini as well as other landing sites
as required. Four boats, two stationed in Lamu, and one each in Faza and
Kisingitini would transport ice to the fishing stations and ice packed fish
back to the Lamu center. The boats would be provided under the Project
and their design and specifications are in Fig. 4.
2.14      Each fishing station at Faza and Kisingitini would be provided
with a floating platform, ice boxes, and fish boxes to facilitate unloading
and storing of ice to be used by the fishermen. The floating platforms for
Kisingitini and Faza would be constructed by lashing barrels to mangrove
logs and then nailing planks to the logs. Mangrove poles would be lashed to
the logs, supporting ropes on which reed mats would be laid to form shades
over the platform. These shades would shield the ice boxes from the sun and
thus enable the slow melting ice to last longer. Landing facilities on these
beaches would not be appropriate, because the water is very shallow and a long
and expensive jetty would be required to load and unload fish and ice.
2.15      Estimated working capital requirements, based on experience of
fishermen's cooperatives, and mission's financial projections, are included
in Project costs.
Fishing Craft and Gear
2.16      Motorsailers.  About 50 motor-sailing fishing boats 9 m long
would be built during the Project period. The marine fishery for pelagic,
offshore species requires a seaworthy craft of about 9 m length for carrying a
large volume of gillnet through sometimes breaking inlets, and for casting and
retrieving the net in open ocean waves. The payload is not especially heavy
because the nets are lightweight and the catch is modest, but the boat must be
large enough to allow the crew to work in a seaway. Each vessel woull be
powered by a 12-hp diesel inboard engine, and would carry about 20 m of
sail for economy and safety. Detailed specifications of this craft are
shown in Figure 4. Standard equipment on each boat would include the rigging,
propeller, shaft, bearings, and a spare parts kit. In addition, each boat
would be fully equipped with fishing gear, including 20 units of gillnet, 81 m
x 9 m each. Most of these craft would be operated south of Mombasa where the
need for seaworthy boats is acute. Their main advantage over traditional
craft would be to enable the fishermen to increase their fishing range and the
average number of fishing days per year (para. 4.04).



- 19 -
2.17      Sailboat Conversion.  North of Malindi, where traditional boat
building is highly developed, about 15 existing "mashuas" (Fig. 6) of 9 m
overall length would be fitted with inboard diesel engines of about 20 hp.
More power is required because these traditional hulls are heavier than
the motorsailers to be built under the Project. Propeller, shaft, bearings,
and a spare parts kit would also be included in the conversion package. The
fishing craft so converted would be practically as efficient as the new
motorsailers and would enable crews to extend the fishing range and the number
of fishing days. The conversion cost, however, would be about one third
cheaper than the cost of a new boat.
2.18      Sailboats.  About 25 traditional "mashuas" (Fig. 6) would be built
locally under the Project. These boats would be fully rigged and fitted for
fishing, including simple low cost gear. They would be purchased on credit
by experienced fishermen who did not own a fishing boat and who may prefer to
operate solely under sail for reasons of economy, familiarity, and remoteness
from engine service facilities and fuel supply. This provision would avoid
discrimination against the traditional fishery, and it would also encourage
perpetuation of the wind-powered fleet, a valuable cultural heritage. As these
craft would be used mainly in remote areas where the fishing effort has so far
been limited due to the lack of ice, resource availability is not a constraint.
Fish Farming
2.19      A pilot Fish Farming Development Center would be established at
Kabonyo, in Kisumu d'strict, Nyanza province, (Map 2) or at any other suitable
location made availa)le by the Government and acceptable to IDA (para. 2.34).
The Government is in the process of acquiring land rights for Kabonyo. Selec-
tion criteria for a different site should Kabonyo not be available would
include water availability and quality, topography, and soil types and acidity
levels. The main objective of the fish farming program would be the experi-
mental production (para 6.02) of a limited number of warm water species:
Tilapia nilotica and a combination of chinese carp and common carp. These
species are recommended because the local environment conditions are suitable
for their breeding and also because they utilize the various kinds of natural
feed produced in the pond and therefore will not require costly supplemental
feeding.
2.20      Over 80% of production (para 4.09) would be of Tilapia nilotica
which is well established and accepted in Kenya but current supply of which
has not been able to satisfy the growing demand. Common carp (Cyprinus
carpio), a bottom feeder, would help prevent the development of weeds. Silver
carp (Hypophthalmichthys molitrix) and big head carp feed on phytoplankton and
zooplankton respectively and would hence require minimum feeding; grass carp
(Ctenopharyngodon idella) a potential user of sugar cane leaves and other
agricultural by-products could become a major species where there is an
abundant and cheap source of green fodder. Black carp (Mylopharyngodon
picens) would be introduced in every stocking program in order to control
the Schistosomiasis vector snails.
2.21      Twenty four rearing ponds with water surface areas of 2.7 ha each
would be developed by constructing earth dikes around each pond. The dikes
on the lower end of the two sides would be 4 m wide on top and contain the



- 20 -
supply canals with outlets to charge the ponds. All dikes would have slopes
of one in three on water sides and one in two on land sides (Fig. 8). The
center line dimensions of each pond would be 107 m x 278 me Three spawning
ponds of 0.5 ha each, four nursing ponds of one ha each, aDd five storage
ponds of 0.2 ha each would also be constructed. The dikes -would have the
same typical sections as those of the production ponds. Metal fences would
be provided arcund the spawning and nursing ponds to protect the fry from
Xenopus, a frog-like predator. No fencing would be necessary for the storage
ponds because the frogs do not prey on mature fish. Three weeks after spawning
the fry would be transferred to nursing ponds at a density of about 120,000/ha.
They would remain there for 45-60 days until they reach at least 10 to 20
grams each; at this size, the frogs can no longer swallow them. When the fry
reach 30 grams in weight, they would be separated according to sex by hand
before being stocked into the rearing ponds. Chinese and common carp would be
used in the same ponds. About one month would be needed to bring these fry to
the stocking size of five grams. Harvesting would be done at the end of each
growing cycle by reducing the water level in the pond and cropping the fish
with seines from a cropping sump located in the deepest part of the pond. The
harvested fish would be taken either to the market or to a storage pond. The
stocking pond would be subsequently refilled and restocked.
2.22      Civil works would also include structures for draining all ponds
into the drainage channel and into each other, and structures for filling
all ponds from the supply canal. Offices, stores, a laboratory, a garage,
and a workshop would be built and about 1.5 km of access road developed to
complete the production facilities of the Fish Farming Development Center.
Fig. 8 shows a detailed layout of the Center, including research and training
facilities (paras. 2.30-2.32).
2.23      Investments in vehicles and machinery to operate the Center would
include a four wheel drive pick-up truck, a wheel tractor, an eight ton
tractor trailer, a tank trailer, a 60 hp loader with backhoe, a two ton
elevator, a blower for aerating the tanks, pumps and piping, and an adequate
supply of spare parts. Small tools and equipment would include workshop
equipment, harvesting gear, aquariums, nursing tanks, and office furniture.
2.24      The main production inputs would be fingerlings, feed, fertilizers,
and water. The Fish Farming Development Center would take brood stock of
tilapia from lake waters. A limited number of carp fingerlings would be
initially imported. Rice bran and other cheap cereals would be used for daily
feeding. The quantity of feed would be about 3% of the fish biomass in the
pond. To maintain the needed level of nutrients in the water for optimal
production of natural food, superphosphate and sulphate of ammonia wou1d be
applied every two weeks at the rate of 60 kg/ha each. About 40,000 m of
water per ha per year would be required for filling each pond twice a year,
after allowing for losses from seepage and evaporation.  If this operation
is successful, in Project year 5, the production cost of the Fish Farming
Development Center is expected to be lower than revenues from sales of fish,
and the Center would generate a profit.  Staff salaries, and the cost of
maintaining and operating the production facilities have been included in this



- 21 -
calculation (para. 4.08). From Project year 0 to 4, however, current expendi-
tures are expected to exceed cash revenues and the Center would need working
capital support. Estimates of incremental working capital requirements during
the development period were included in Project costs.
2.25      The Fish Farming Development Center would employ about 20 staff
in its fish production operation. They would include a Center Manager, and
his deputy, an aquaculturist, a hatchery officer, financial staff, machine
operators, and support staff. An internationally recruited aquaculturist
would assist the national staff. A civil engineer knowledgeable in water
management would be employed as a consultant to supervise the construction
of the ponds and the Center structures (para. 2.22).
Training, Research, and Studies
2.26      Fisheries Research - Lake Victoria.  After the collapse of the
East African Community, in 1977 (para. 1.41), the Department of Fisheries
has attempted to continue the research work which used to be carried out at
Jinja in Uganda by the East African Fresh Water Fisheries Organization. The
research section at Kisumu has been staffed, and the Department of Fisheries
is now focusing on applied economic research oriented towards the traditional
fishermen. Stock assessment also remains an important research objective for
Lake Victoria. Specific research programs would be formulated during the
Project period and submitted to IDA for approval. Approval of the programs
would be a condition of disbursement against investments in this component.
While the precise specification of these investments would be in the detailed
programs, they are expected to include two four-wheel drive vehicles, two 9 m
fishing boats, fishing gear, life rafts, diving equipment, an echo sounder,
laboratory and office equipment, scholarships, exchange programs, books,
periodicals, maintenance and operating costs. The feasibility of providing
high quality fish freezing facilities would also be studied.
2.27      Boat Building, Training and Research.  A boat building program
is designed to train artisanal boat builders, while producing most boats
required for the Project. In addition, two prototype fishing boats would be
developed in an effort to adapt modern boat building methods and materials
to the long term needs and preferences of Kenya fishermen. The principal
investments would be a light truck, shop improvements and tools for the
Fisheries Department boatyards at Kisumu, Mombasa, and Malindi, and tooling
and materials for building the prototypes. An experienced naval architect
would be recruited internationally for the training and research program.
Investments for this component would include the labor for the prototypes and
50% of the trainee stipends. The remaining 50% would be part of the cost of
motorsailers (para. 2.16) and transport boats (paras. 2.05 and 2.13).
2.28      Training would be confined to modern methods and materials applic-
able to the design and construction of boats produced for the Project. The
curriculum would stress the rapid construction of strong and light hulls
built primarily of wood using contemporary adhesives, coatings, and laminating
techniques. When combined correctly with laminated wood, small quantities of
chemical adhesives such as butyls, silicones and epoxies allow the use of



- 22 -
relatively low grade lumber in the construction of high grade boats. Engine
installation, together with the installation of rudders and steering parts
would be included in the curriculum for each trainee. Instruction in the
removal and replacement of all spare parts, provided T-rth each engine in an
extensive spare kit, would be combined with scheduled maintenance training on
in-service vessels. Courses would last one year. Graduates would qualify
for the acquisition of a set of tools suitable for practising their trade in
the private sector.
2.29      Selected graduate trainees would produce prototype fishing craft
which embody design, and construction to meet the evolving fishing and trans-
port needs of the lake and marine fisheries. With the assistance and guidance
of the boatbuilding expert, the Kenyan boatbuilders would test ways to apply
modern construction methods to combine a maximum of cheap local raw materials
with a minimum of expensive imported products.
2.30      Fish Farming - Research and Training.  Besides its production
objective, the Fish Farming Development Center (para. 2.19) would train
Fisheries Department staff, produce fish seed, and carry out applied research.
In addition to production, the staff of the center would be involved with the
design and planning of a second phase expansion, carrying out applied research
on fish farming, and giving basic training in fish farming to staff of the
Fisheries Department.
2.31      During the second phase, the emphasis would be on the development
and rehabilitation of several hundred outgrowers' fishponds and the provision
of extension services by the staff trained during the first phase. Training
would be expanded as needed. The rehabilitation and development of ponds
would be done on a selective basis. Pond sites would have to meet selection
criteria acceptable to the Center technical staff. The necessary services
such as chemical analysis of water and soil should be provided by the Center
through the extension officers.
2.32      The cost of the investments described in paras. 2.19-2.25 has been
allocated to production, research or training depending on the expected
utilization of resources. For example, the cost of piping for the rearing
ponds has been allocated to production, while the cost of piping for the
experimental ponds has been allocated to research. In addition to the above,
the main investments in research and training would include a hatchery
shed, a hostel for trainees, dining facilities, a classroom and library,
offices, experimental ponds, two four-wheel drive vehicles, furniture and
teaching aids, and the cost of operating and maintaining these facilities.
The detailed layout of the Center, including the production facilities, is
shown in Fig. 8. Substantial technical assistance would be required to ensure
a sound technical base for future development. In addition to the aquacul-
turist (para. 2.25), a hatchery specialist would be recruited internationally
to serve for the entire Project period. Their appointment would be a condi-
tion of disbursement against all Project investments in fish farming (paras.
2.19-2.25 and 2.30-2.32). If necessary, consultants would be employed for



- 23 -
extension and fish disease control training, and for the preparation of the
second phase expansion, as well as for selecting a suitable site (paras. 2.19
and 2.34). The Government may contract for these services separately or with
a single consulting firm (para. 3.06).
2.33      Stafr Training.  About 30 staff would receive formal training
under the Project. Scholarships would be provided for the aquaculturist,
the hatchery officer, cooperative and credit officers, the chief evaluation
officer, and senior financial staff to attend specialization courses at
selected universities and technical training institutions abroad. The pro-
curement officer would receive formal training and would then be seconded to
the Ministry of Works where he would receive in-service training on inter-
national competitive bidding procedures. Equipment suppliers would train
the maintenance supervisors as part of their supply contracts. Arrangements
would be made with the Ministry of Agriculture to provide in-service training
to monitoring and evaluation staff on a rotating basis. The fishing center
managers would receive training from the Cooperative College. Follow-up
training would also be provided in Project years 1 through 4 as appropriate.
2.34      Studies.  A suitable site for the Fish Farming Development Center
has been identified at Kabonyo (para. 2.19). The Government has initiated the
appropriate steps necessary to make it available for this Project. Should
this site be unavailable, the Government would employ an aquaculturist and an
engineer to select another site. IDA's approval of the selected site would be
a condition of credit disbursement against investments in fish farming (paras.
2.19-2.25 anl 2.30-2.,2).
2.35      Lake Victoria Basin Development.  The Project would include pro-
vision to plan for and initiate an integrated development program for the
Lake Victoria catchment region. A regional development study would explore
prospects for the region outside fisheries; it would examine several develop-
ment possibilities in the areas of social infrastructure, rural industry
arid ancillary developments such as feeder road construction. This study
should assemble available data on the region, propose a general development
plan, and identify priority development activities. Pilot activities would
be initiated under this component, in order to provide a basis for future
development programs. They would include village processing facilities, such
as flour mills and oil presses, and development of social infrastructure and
community installations. Many of these activities have already been identi-
fied, and relate to rehabilitation, or to strengthening existing services and
installations. IDA's approval of the detailed investment plans would be a
condition of credit disbursement for this component (para. 3.06).
2.36      Resource Management.  To manage the Lake Victoria fishery effec-
tively, fish stocks must be increased. Ways need to be found to improve the
escape rate of young fish in the breeding areas and subsequent growth rates.
A number of fairly simple management methods have been proposed; among these,
the setting aside of a few bays and rivers as protected spawning areas should
have priority. In some parts of Lake Victoria this could be easily done by
adding scrap metal to the spawning beds, thereby making the setting of nets



- 24 -
hazardous. In other cases more elaborate methods might be needed. Under the
Project, funds would be provided for a consultancy on active management of
Lake Victoria fisheries resources, including recommendations on appropriate
restocking methods (para. 3.06).
2.37      Fishermen's Training.  Traditional fishermen both on Lake Victoria
and on the Indian Ocean are highly skilled and sophisticated within the limits
of their boats and gear. There may be some scope, however, for improving
their productivity with only small technological changes. For example, a
mid-water trawl net operated by two sail boats (Fig. 3), an aggressive fishing
method, is likely to yield good results, but it has never been tried. Sport
fishermen using lures, which are unknown to traditional fishermen, have
reported excellent catches of Nile perch in Lake Victoria. Under the Project,
the Department of Fisheries would employ an experienced master fisherman to
conduct fishing trials and introduce fishermen to simple, low cost new fishing
methods. He would serve for six months on Lake Victoria, six months on the
Indian Ocean.
Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation
2.38      While the Project is relatively small, its diverse components would
require a considerable management and coordination effort (para. 3.01). In
addition to the management of the Fish Farming Development Center (para.
2.19), two management teams would be established in Kisumu and Mombasa.
Each team would consist of an area manager, a cooperative officer, a senior
accountant, a maintenance supervisor, and support staff. A Credit Officer in
Mombasa would assist the coast cooperatives in their credLt operations. The
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources would recrult a Project Manager,
a Financial Controller, a senior Cooperative Officer, and a Procurement
Officer to be stationed in Nairobi. Vehicles and office equipment would be
provided. Adequate office space is available in the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources in Nairobi, and at the Department of Fisheries Regional
Headquarters in Kisumu and Mombasa.
2.39      Four statistical officers, four field enumerators, and a senior
statistical officer would be recruited to monitor and evaluate Project pro-
gress. The principal investments would be for means of transport, computing,
and field equipment.
D. Project Costs
2.40      Total Project costs are estimated at K Sh 112 million (US$14.9
million), of which about K Sh 56 million (US$7.4 million) or 50% represents
foreign exchange costs. Details are summarized in the following table:



- 25 -
a/                          b/
------ K Sh '000  -----    ------ US$ '000 ------    % of
Project Component            Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Total
Shore Facilities            12,000    11,000  23,000    1,600    1,500    3,100          28
Fishing Craft & Gear         4,000      4,000   8,000        600      500    1,100       10
Fish Farming                 5,000      7,000  12,000        700      900    1,600       15
Training, Research &
Studies                   13,000    17,000  30,000    1,700    2,300    4,000         36
Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation                 7,000      3,000  10,000       900       400    1,300       11
Total Base Cost       41,000    42,000  83,000    5,500    5,600   11,100    100
Physical Contingencies       4,000      4,000   8,000       500       500    1,000
Price Contingencies         11,000    10,000  21,000    1,500    1,300    2,800
Total Contingencies  15,000    14,000  29,000    2,000    1,800    3,800
TOTAL PROJECT COST   56.000    56,000 112,000    7,500    7,400   14,900
a/   Rounded to the nearest thousand.
h/   Rounded to the nearest hundred.
2.41      Project costs were estimated at prices expected to prevail in June
1980. A physical contingency of 10% was applied to all Project costs to
reflect a measure of uncertainty on the quantities required. Price contingencies
for foreign exchange costs were applied at 10.5% p.a. for 1980; 9%, 1981; 8%,
1982; and 7%, 1983-85. Price contingencies for local costs were applied at
the rate of 10% p.a. for 1980-82 and at the same rates as for foreign exchange
costs thereafter (Table 2). These rates reflect current estimates of price
increases in Kenya and worldwide. Taxes and duties on Project goods and
services are estimated at K Sh 12 million (US$1.6 million), which represents
import taxes and duties on goods and services not eligible for exemption from
customs, and taxes and duties on fuel and other operating costs. The phasing
of Project investments is summarized in Table 2.
E. Financing
2.42      The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:



- 26 -
K Sh        U $           %
--- million ---
Government of Kenya                               23          3 1          23
Fishermen                                          2          0.2           2
IDA                                               75         10.0          75
Net Cost (excluding Taxes and Duties)            100         13.3         100
Taxes and Duties                                  12          1.6
Total Project Cost                               112         14.9
2.43      The proposed Credit of US$10 million to the Kenya Government would
be on standard IDA terms. The Credit would finance about 75% of net Project
cost, including 100% of foreign exchange cost and 35% of local expenditures.
Directly or through cooperative societies, fishermen would finance about
US$0.2 million or about 2% of net Project costs. The fishermen's contribu-
tion would consist mainly of cash payments for fishing craft and gear, and is
estimated to average about 10% of the total cost of those investments. The
Government contribution of US$3.1 million would finance 23% of net Project
cost.
2.44      Expenditures for civil works at the fishing centers and stations
(paras. 2.05 and 2.11), the Fish Farming Development Center (paras. 2.19-2.25
and 2.30-2.32), fisheries research (para. 2.26), boatbuilding (paras. 2.27-
2.29), training (paras. 2.33 and 2.37), studies (paras. 2.34-2.36), and Project
management (paras. 2.38 and 2.39) would be allocated to the budget of the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. The Government investments
in the Fish Farming Development Center would take the form of regular budget
allocations. Expenditures for fishing centers and stations except civil works
(paras. 2.05-2.10 and 2.11-2.15), and for fishing motorsailers (para. 2.16)
would also be channelled through the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources but the Project Financial Controller would account for them sep-
arately, because the cooperative societies would be responsible for them
(paras. 3.07 and 3.08). The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources,
however, would be responsible for procurement, shipping, and installation of
all goods and services needed to establish the fishing centers and stations
and to build the boats. It would, therefore, retain title to those assets
until the cooperatives took possession of them. CBK would finance the coop-
eratives acquisition of the fishing centers, stations, craft, and gear as well
as their working capital requirements. The cooperatives would own and operate
the shore facilities and the motorsailers (para. 2.16) and sell the inboard
engines (para. 2.17), and the sailboats on credit or cash to members (para.
2.18). Fishermen would make down payments of about 10% of purchase price.
2.45      The Government would onlend credit funds to CBK at an interest rate
of 6% p.a. CBK would in turn lend to cooperative societies at 9% p.a. Loan
maturities would be up to 10 years depending on the purpose of individual
loans and the expected life of the equipment financed. Cooperative societies



- 27 -
would lend to their members at 10% p.a. for up to eight years to finance boat
purchases. These terms are consistent with currently prevailing lending terms
in agriculture and with the Cooperative Act of February 1977. Interest rates
in Kenya have been virtually unchanged for several years and there is a grow-
ing concern that the Government should adopt more active monetary and credit
policies to respond to a changing domestic and international economic environ-
ment. In May 1979, the Government undertook to review the current and future
level and structure of interest rates, in particular those relating to lending
in the agricultural sector. In this review, which is currently underway, the
Government aims to ensure that interest rate policies are consistent with the
objectives of the Development Plan. The Government, after consulting with
IDA, would apply any relevant change in general interest rates implemented as
a result of the review to this Project. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that the Government would include the above lending terms and conditions
in the Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and CBK. The execution of
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credit
disbursement for the shore facilities and for fishing craft and gear. The
total amount of funds to be onlent to CBK and subsequently to cooperative
societies and their members on a medium term basis would be about K Sh 25.7
million (US$3.4 million) including contingencies. Maturities of the loan from
the Government to CBK would be scheduled so as to match maturities of indi-
vidual loans from CBK to the 11 participating cooperative societies. This
provision would be spelled out in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to prevent
temporary shortfalls in CBK's cash flow. Table 3 shows an estimate of CBK's
projected loan amortization and interest repayments. The participating
cooperatives would be the direct obligors and ultimate borrowers of over 90%
of Project credit funis. Because their number is limited, and substantial
management support ani  guidance would be provided to them under this Project
(paras. 3.03 and 3.07), it is not expected that the loan losses experienced in
past credit programs to fishermen (para. 1.46) and smallholders (para. 1.47)
would be repeated. A spread of 3% and Government's financing of a credit
officer position (para. 2.38) would be adequate to ensure that CBK earns a
reasonable profit from its participation in the Project.
F. Procurement
2.46      Civil works contracts for fishing centers and stations (US$1.2
million), and fish farming (US$2.7 million) would be carried out by local
contractors to be selected under local competitive bidding procedures which
were examined during appraisal and are satisfactory. In order to attract
competition and execute the work expeditiously, civil works for the Lake
Victoria shore facilities (para. 2.05) would be tendered as one contract.
Two contracts would be required for civil works for the Indian Ocean shore
facilities: one for Shimoni and Vanga in the south, and because of its
remote location, another for Lamu. Generators, ice plants, chillrooms,
vehicles, and inboard engines (US$1.5 million) would be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding according to Bank/IDA guidelines.  Vehicles and
equipment would be purchased with an initial supply of spare parts. The tender
documents would require that qualified suppliers be represented in Kenya by
a responsible firm capable of maintaining and repairing the machinery without



- 28 -
delay. Supply contracts would also provide for the installation of the
equipment and training (para. 2.33) as appropriate. Miscellaneous items such
as fuel tanks, electrical cable, piping, small tools, ice boxes, fish boxes,
chlorinators, pumps, scales, workshop, office equipment and furniture (US$0.3
million) would be purchased off the shelf as part of installation contracts.
The East African Power and Lighting Company would be requested to construct
the power line extensions and sub-stations at Kisumu, Homa Bay, and Lamu.
Materials and tools for boat building (US$0.5 million) would be purchased by
the Fisheries Department according to Government regulations which are satis-
factory. Technical assistance (para. 3.06) contracts (US$1.8 million) would
be entered into on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Unit costs of
technical assistance are estimated at US$3,300 to US$7,500 per staff/month
(para. 3.06).
G. Disbursements
2.47      Funds from the Credit account would be disbursed according to the
following schedule:
US$ Million
(a)  65% of total expenditures for civil works                           2.1
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of
local expenditures for vehicles, boats,
equipment, and machinery                                            1.2
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures
for boat building materials and boat construction                   1.1
(d)  40% of the local operating costs of the Fishing Centers
and of the Fish Farming Development Center                          1.3
(e)  100% of expenditures for technical assistance,
studies, and staff training                                         2.1
(f)  65% of operating costs of Project management,
research, and training programs, including
staff salaries                                                      1.0
(g)  an unallocated amount additional to the above
categories and transferable to them as required                     1.2
TOTAL                  10.0
2.48      Disbursements against (a), (b), (e), and finished products in (c)
would be fully documented. Disbursements against (c), except for finished
products, and (f) would be made against statements of expenditure, the docu-
mentation for which would not be submitted to IDA but would be retained by the
Borrower for inspection by supervision missions. An estimated schedule of IDA
disbursements is given in Table 4.



- 29 -
H. Accounts and Audit
2.49      The Project Financial Controller in the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources would establish and maintain adequate books arP  records of
the receipts and payments in respect of the Project and the assets and liabil-
ities created by Project transactions, in such a way as to enable separate
identification of all Project accounts from other accounts of the Ministry.
He would prepare semi-annual Reports and submit them to the Permanent Secretary.
MOCD, CBK, and the cooperative societies participating in the Project would
also maintain separate Project accounts.
2.50      The responsibility for auditing Government Ministries rests with
the Auditor General. The accounts of cooperative societies are audited by
the Audit and Accounts Division of Ministry of Cooperative Development,
which is currently understaffed. MOCD is in the process of recruiting and
training additional audit staff. Moreover, cooperative societies may, with
MOCD approval, employ private accounting firms to audit their financial
statements. These arrangements are satisfactory. Assurances were obtained
from the Government at negotiations that: (a) separate Project accounts would
be maintained; (b) the accounts prepared by the Project financial controller
would be forwarded to IDA, not later than six months following the end of the
financial year to which they relate; (c) independent auditors acceptable to
IDA would continue to be appointed to audit Project entities and accounts; and
(d) arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be made for the audit of expendi-
tures made against certificates of expenditures (para. 2.48).
I. Environmental Impact
2.51      There is no known significant source of pollutants affecting the
Lake Victoria and Indian Ocean fishing grounds in Kenya's territorial waters.
Project investments in marketing and artisanal fisheries are not expected to
have any adverse environmental impact.
2.52      Investments in Lake Victoria Shore Facilities would aim at reducing
post-harvest losses and improving the transportation and marketing of high
value fish, without further exploiting resources. Project incremental catches
in the marine fisheries would consist mainly of currently unexploited pelagic
species, and are not expected to affect the ocean environment adversely.
2.53      Traditional boatbuilding requires substantial amounts of noble
timber. The wood required for one dug-out canoe (para. 1.27) could produce
three fine craft using modern methods. Good quality hardwood is still
available on the Coast in fair supply, but it has become scarce in the Lake
Victoria region. Modern boat building methods introduced under the Project
(para. 2.29) would contribute to conserve the diminishing supply of first
growth tropical hardwoods. With modern adhesives, high strength, low weight
hulls can be built with less wood and lower grade wood than traditionally
required. Low grade wood is in abundant supply in Kenya and is readily
renewable.



- 30 -
III. ORGANIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT
A. Project Management and Staffing
Management
3.01      A Project Manager in the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources would be responsible for implementing this Project. Three area
managers would each be responsible for implementing (i) the freshwater
fisheries, (ii) the marine fisheries, and (iii) the fish farming components
of the Project. The area managers would report to the Project Manager. The
manager of fresh water fisheries would be stationed at Kisumu, on Lake Victoria,
in Nyanza province, and the manager of marine fisheries would be stationed at
Mombasa in Coast Province. The manager of the Fish Farming Development Center
would be stationed at the Center.
3.02      The Project Manager would have on his staff a financial controller,
a procurement officer and a senior cooperative officer. The financial con-
troller would keep all Project accounts with the assistance of senior account-
ants in Kisumu, Mombasa, and at the Fish Farming Development Center. The
procurement officer would ensure that goods and services for the Project were
procured according to the procedures and implementation schedule agreed by the
Government and IDA. In addition, he would personally review every order in
excess of K Sh 100,000 and recommend appropriate action to the Project Manager.
The senior cooperative officer would ensure that the cooperatie societies are
properly managed and their staff properly trained.
3.03      The area managers in Kisumu and Mombasa would each be assisted by a
cooperative officer, a senior accountant, a maintenance supervisor, and junior
and support staff. The Mombasa office would include a credit officer. The
cooperative officers would be seconded from the Ministry of Cooperative
Development to assist participating cooperative societies in managing the
fishing centers. The senior accountants would assist the cooperatives in
managing their Project accounts and finances. The maintenance supervisors
would service and maintain the plant and machinery at the fishing centers.
The credit officer in Mombasa would be seconded from CBK and would supervise
the Credit operations of the cooperative societies. Chart 2 shows the organ-
ization of the Project.
3.04      A Senior Statistical officer would be responsible for gathering data
for Project monitoring and evaluation (para. 3.13). His staff would include
four statistical officers and four field enumerators. He would report
to the Project Manager. A Project Monitoring and Evaluation Committee would
be established to review the implementation of the Project. This committee
would consist of:
- Director of Fisheries - Chairman
- Commissioner for Cooperative Development
- General Manager, Cooperative Bank of Kenya
- Managing Director, Lake Basin Development Authority
- Project Manager, Secretary



- 31 -
The Committee would meet at least once quarterly to review the progress of
Project implementation and make recommendations as appropriate.
3.05      The Project Manager would report to the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and would be selected by him in
consultation with the Commissioner for Cooperative Development and the Director
of Fisheries. His appointment would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
The terms of reference and required technical qualifications of the Project
Manager, the area managers, the financial controller, and the procurement
officer were agreed at negotiations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Government would consult with IDA prior to their appointment.
Staffing
3.06      Approximately 150 new staff would be required to carry out Project
activities. They would be mainly junior staff employed by the cooperatives
and the Fish Farming Development Center, who are readily available.  Senior
Project staff would be recruited mainly from MOCD and Fisheries Department and
trained as appropriate (para. 2.33). Table 1 shows the proposed additional
staff, by seniority, and by origin. Planning for the recruitment of the
senior Project staff has already started. Technical assistance requirements
would be for two internationally recruited aquaculturists, one of them a
hatchery specialist (paras. 2.25 and 2.32), and one boat builder (para 2.27).
Consultancies would be needed for the following periods and purposes: (i)
nine staff months for the preparation of the second phase of the fish farming
development program (F-ra. 2.32); (ii) nine staff months for extension training
in aquaculture (para. 2.32); (iii) two staff months for fish disease control
(para. 2.32); (iv) six staff months for the selection of a site for the Fish
Farming Development Center (para. 2.34); (v) 12 staff months for a Lake
Victoria regional development study (para. 2.35); (vi) six staff months for
a study of effective ways to restock certain species in Lake Victoria (para.
2.36); (vii) two staff months for the feasibility study of a fish freezing
plant (para. 2.26); (viii) 12 staff months for fishing trials and experiments
(para. 2.37); and (ix) 2 staff months for the supervision of the water flow
and drainage systems at the Fish Farming Development Center (para 2.22).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the terms of reference for all
technical assistants and consultants employed under the Project would be
submitted to IDA for approval, and that IDA would be consulted prior to
their appointment.
B. Management of Project Components
3.07      Shore Facilities.  The area managers in Kisumu and Mombasa and their
staff would be responsible for the erection of the shore facilities and would
work closely with the cooperative societies at each fishing center and station.
Design, engineering and supervision of all building activities would be the
responsibility of the Ministry of Works. Each fishing center and station
would be operated by a cooperative society with technical assistance from the
area manager and his team. Before a cooperative starts operating a center or
a station, the area manager would have to certify that it had adequate and



- 32 -
competent staff. This certification might be withdrawn at any time at the
sole discretion of the area manager, after consulting witb. the Provincial
Cooperative Officer. The facilities would then be operated by staff reporting
to the area manager. The minimum acceptable standards would be those currently
set by MOCD for approving credit to cooperative societies. Those standards
are acceptable to IDA. Initially, the ice plants in Kisumu and Homa Bay would
be operated under the control of the area manager. Their management would be
transferred to cooperative societies after no less than two years of uninter-
rupted operation.  This transfer would be subject to approval by the Project
Manager, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, MOCD, CBK and the
interested cooperative society. Assurances that this procedure would be
followed were obtained at negotiations.
3.08      Fishing Craft and Gear.  The Department of Fisheries boatyards in
Mombasa and Malindi would build the fishing motorsailers (para. 2.16) and
the transport boats (para. 2.13), at Lamu, Faza, and Kisingitini. The
transport boats for Lake Victoria (para. 2.05) would be built at the Kisumu
boatyard. Initially, the internationally recruited boatbuilder would fit
existing sailboats with engines. Graduates from the training course would
eventually replace him in this function. Traditional "mashuas" would be built
by local boatbuilders selected by the Mombasa area manager, after consulting
with field staff of the Department of Fisheries and the boat building expert.
The fishing motorsailers (para. 2.16) would be operated by the cooperative
societies at Lamu, Shimoni, and Vanga, and their members would crew them.
Converted sailboats (para. 2.17) and new sailboats (para. 2.18) would be
operated by their owners. Discussions have been initiated. between the Depart-
ment of Fisheries and the Kenya National Assurance Compan1,7 a Government
owned corporation, as well as the Cooperative Insurance Services, an affiliate
of the Cooperative Bank of Kenya, regarding the possibility of providing
insurance coverage to Project boats. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Cooperative Insurance Services would provide insurance coverage to
Project boats. If their rates should prove non-competitive, then the Kenya
National Assurance Company would be utilized. Assurances were also obtained
that the societies would take appropriate steps to provide insurance coverage
to their members.
3.09      Fish Farming.  All Project fish farming activities, including
research and training (para. 2.30), would be the responsibility of the
Manager of the Fish Farming Development Center, who would report to the
Project Manager.  The Fish Farming Development Center would be an autonomous
unit in the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. The establishment
of the Center would be a condition of disbursement against investments in
fish farming (paras. 2.19-2.25 and 2.30-2.32).
3.10      Freshwater Fisheries Research (para. 2.26) would be carried out by
the Department of Fisheries research staff at Kisumu. The boatbuilding expert
(para. 2.27) would be responsible for boatbuilding training, and research.
He would report to the Mombasa area manager. Staff training programs would
be prepared by the Project Manager in consultation with the Department of
Fisheries, MOCD, the Ministry of Works, the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Director of Establishment and consultants hired under the Project (para.
3.06) as appropriate. The Department of Fisheries would prepare the terms of



- 33 -
reference and recruit consultants for the selection of a site for the Fish
Farming Development Center (para. 2.19), the resource management study (para.
2.36), the feasibility study for a fish freezing plant (para. 2.26), fishing
trials (para. 2.37), and the Lake Basin Development study and pilot activities
(para. 2.35).
Project Completion Report
3.11      The Government would prepare a completion report summarizing Project
performance and evaluating its impact. The report would be submitted to IDA
not later than six months after the closing date. Assurances on this subject
were obtained at negotiations.
C. Project Implementation Schedule
3.12      The Project would be implemented over a period of about six years,
beginning in July 1980. The first year is referred to as Project year 0
because only start-up activities are expected to be carried out during that
period. The Project implementation schedule is summarized below and would be
discussed during negotiations:



KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Iepleorenation Schedule
Noj- l'y-                                                    8                              I                              2                              3                              45
F,-ca  Y.a.9,/0                                          1980/81                        198lY82                        1982/83                        1983/84                        198485                          1985/0
2I3          T            3               1      2       3       8       1       2      3       4       1       2      3       4       /       2       3      4        1      2       3       4
1. ProjecPlanning/Preparation
T 1of Rd ...nce-- K., Stllf
S,ts  r/4-io,n   Fish  .-, D- --04502t,4
T.-4/ of eeeRd--  -- 859/O-l OoIlo
2. P(pjeCt Staffing
8,5- M.o.S,,
Fiosm.-.en C0o11140
Conp-,t;ss Offiw-r
rH-h,, AsOMil f/
Hat-h-r  OMlte
Fim.- a 4 refd A-s00flim,
FMio Co, 0  , nd I 1,h  sl atin 0  -4   ooo,
P- --COt///O  of-                                                                                                                                     -        -      -i-n 
-80eyof c,iT-W-n
90i-n0.;.dm-
Cood li C01 n,/r,0 Ijo IIIIn    
8,sild                  987)
Eqj49.      elsr



- 35 -
D. Monitorin_ and Evaluation
3.13      The Project monitoring and evaluation system would have two objec-
tives. The first would be to generate reliable statistical information; the
second one to assess the results of the Project.
3.14      Statistical data collection would complement the Fisheries Depart-
ment's work and would be limited to fishing communities affected by Project
investments. Information on catches, number of fishing days, markets, and
prices is at present inadequate, making it difficult to assess the average
income of fishermen and its variability. A better knowledge of the pre-
Project situation is required so that the effect of the Project on production
and incomes can ultimately be measured.
3.15      The monitoring and evaluation unit would also provide useful feed-
back to management to enable them to assess its effectiveness. The assessment
would involve undertaking a number of ad-hoc studies periodically to judge
the impact of specific decisions. On the basis of these studies, the senior
statistical officer would recommend action to improve the delivery of fisheries
services. This analysis and the data collected would be available for use in
the preparation of other programs. Formal and in service training would be
provided to monitoring and evaluation staff.
IV. PRODUCTION
A. Technical Features
4.01      Increases in marketed fish production are expected to result from
the Project investments in improved marketing infrastructure and from the
provision of fishing craft and gear to fishermen. The feasibility of attain-
ing commercial yields from warm water fish farming would be tested. Several
models were developed to illustrate expected benefits to fishermen and
fishermen's cooperatives benefiting from different combinations of Project
provisions. Three of these are considered most significant: two models
representing about 3,000 fishermen who would use the improved shore facilities
on the Lake Victoria and Indian Ocean shores; and one model representing about
260 fishermen using the improved mechanized boats provided under the Project.
Lake Victoria
4.02      The provision of ice and chilled stores for fish at eight major
fishing centers strategically located along the lake shore would reduce
post-harvest losses and improve the quality of fish at the market. This
means that fishermen would be able to sell on average a higher proportion of
their catch than they do now, at relatively higher prices than those currently
prevailing. It is estimated, again on average, that about one third of the
high value fish caught off Lake Victoria spoils before it can be sold. One
third reaches the market in relatively good condition, and the remaining



- 36 -
.hir- needs to be smoked or dried for preservation thus losing approximately
60% of the fresh fish equivalent market value. From 1973 to 1978 high value
fish has averaged about 20% of total marketed yield from Kenya's Lake Victoria
w ~sr  T, is finamr iellv more attractive to refrigerate high value fish,
but occasionally small quantities of low value fish would also be refrigerated
to use up capacity. The marketable yields attainable with and without the
Prcject iave been estimated at about 90% and 65% of the gross catch respec-
tively. These yields reflect expected spoilage rates for various fish species,
fishing methods, environmental conditions (para. 1.15), and mission estimates.
Indian Ocean
4.03      The provision of ice and chilled stores at three major fishing
centers along the Indian Ocean shore would also improve marketable yields of
fish. The technical coefficients, however, would be different because salt
water fish is less perishable than fresh water fish and the composition and
relative values of catches also vary from fresh water catches. Marketable
yields with and without the Project are estimated at about 90% and 80% of the
gross catch respectively (para. 4.09).
4.04      Fishermen who would operate mechanized fishing boats would catch
pelagic fish with gill nets, a technique well established among Kenyan fisher-
men. The new vessels would be more productive than those now in use which are
normally powered by sail alone. Inboard engines would give these vessels a
broader fishing range than existing sailboats, they could put to sea in
adverse weather conditions, especially in June through August when the monsoon
blows hard offshore.  These mechanized boats would also )e provided with sails
as standby power, and to economize on the cost of running the engines when
winds are favorable. It is estimated that average yearly catches of the
mechanized boats would be about 20 tons. This is over 100% higher than the
current estimated average annual 9.6 tons catch of the existing sailing
"imashuas" (Fig. 6).
Fish Farming
4.05      Target yields for the Fish Farming Development Center have been
set at 3.5 tons of tilapia per ha per year. If those yields are attained,
at full development in Project year 6, the results of the experiment would be
considered positive and further expansion could be plannede Technically, the
proposed target yield is modest given the favorable growing conditions which
exist in many parts of Kenya. It is estimated that, with experienced manage-
ment and intensive use of the land and water resources, yields of up to eight
tons per ha per year are ultimately possible. It would, however, be unreason-
able at this stage to expect yields of four tons per ha per year or higher,
since knowledge and experience of warm water fish farming in Kenya are limited.



- 37 -
B. Financial Benefits
Fishermen
4.06      The benefits to fishermen from the proposed Project would be twofold.
Cash benefits would accrue to fishermen selling a higher proportion of their
catch at better prices than at present, because of Project investments in fish
refrigeration and transport. Fishermen who operated the Project mechanized
boats could be expected to increase their average cash incomes from fish sales
by about 40% during the Project period. Fishermen who installed an engine in
their "mashua dhows" (Fig. 6) could expect their incomes to increase by an
average 30% during the Project period, as a result of higher catches. Finally,
qualified fishermen who purchased a new "mashua" on credit would be likely
to increase their average cash earnings by about 60%. This increase would
reflect the financial advantage of being an owner-fisherman as opposed to
crewing for pay.
Fishermen's Cooperatives
4.07      It is estimated that the financial rates of return from Project
investments in shore facilities would be 20% to the Lake Victoria cooperatives,
and 12% to the Indian Ocean cooperatives. The higher return from the lake
investments would result mainly from the highly profitable land transport of
fish. It is not expected that the Indian Ocean cooperatives would engage in
land transport of fish as they would rely on existing commercial operators.
These financial rates of return reflect estimates of aggregate revenues and
expenses; financial returns to individual cooperative societies on Lake
Victoria may be lower than 20%, but are not expected to be below 14%. If the
operation of the fishing motorsailers is included (para. 3.08), the financial
rate of return from Project investments to each Indian ocean cooperative is
expected to exceed 15%.
Fish Farming Development Center
4.08      The financial rate of return from directly productive investments
in fish farming would be 13%. The most critical assumption in this calculation
is the yield target of 3.5 tons per ha per year (para. 4.05). If a yield of
only three tons per ha per year were attained, then the financial rate of
return would be 10%. Conversely, if the yield were 4 tons per ha, the
financial rate of return would be 15%. It is recommended that the Government
should not invest in any expansion of the Fish Farming Development Center
until yields of at least 3 tons per ha per year were attained.
C. Production Estimates
4.09      The expected incremental production resulting from the Project,
while modest in absolute terms, would represent a substantial amount relative
to the size of the directly productive Project investments and to the current
level of national production.



- 38 -
Production       Project        Present          Increment as
without       Incremental    National          Percentage of
Project I/    Production   Production 1/  National Production
------------- tons per year --                          %
Fresh-water fish
- High value 2/       5,900             375         12,400                  3
- Low Value 3/       17,500             400         28,800                  1
Sub-Total        23,400            775         41,200                  2
Salt water fish
- High value           1,100            700 a/       2,100                 33
- Low Value           1,400             800 b/       2,500                33
Sub-Total         2,500          1,500          4,600                 33
Fish Ponds                -              300 c/         600                 50
Total            25,900          2,575         46,400                  6
1/  Department of Fisheries estimates for 1978.  The first column shows
production in the Project area only.
2/ Includes mainly predators, and Tilapia species.
3/ Includes mainly Haplocromis and Engraulycipris.
a/ Includes mainly king fish and tuna.
b/ Includes mainly shark and ray.
c/ Tilapia and some carp.
4.10      Estimates of reduction of post-harvest losses have been made on the
basis of assumptions about the production capacity and projected utilization
rates of the proposed ice plants at Fishing Centers on the Lake Victoria and
Indian Ocean shores (paras. 2.06, 2.12, and 2.13). Estimates of incremental
production rest on assumptions of estimated catch rates, the average number of
fishing days per year, and the number of additional fishing vessels proposed
under the Project (paras. 2.16-2.18). Production of the Fish Farming Develop-
ment Center is estimated on the basis of target yields of 3.5 tons per ha per
year, and the planned development of fish ponds covering a total of 67 ha.
V. MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
A. Markets
5.01      Project production would be marketed through existing channels
which are adequate. The Lake Victoria cooperatives would sell high value
fresh fish to private traders and fishmongers who would supply the urban



- 39 -
markets, primarily Kisumu and Nairobi where demand cannot currently be met.
Availability of ice at the point of sale, the fishing center, is expected
to be an incentive to more active marketing by local traders who would no
longer depend on ice delivered from Nairobi or Mombasa.
5.02      Demand for fresh marine products is also strong along the Coast
and in the major urban centers, but private marketing companies should not
have any difficulty freezing and exporting high value table fish, shellfish,
and crustacea if ever a temporary domestic surplus developed. It is not
expected that additional facilities would be required to market the fish
from the cooperatives to the consumers.
B. Prices
5.03      Price assumptions underlying the financial analysis (paras. 4.06-
4.08) reflect the available statistics, actual prices observed at various
landing beaches in mid-1979, estimates of average catch compositions and
of local inflation rates, and supply and demand projections. The average
ex-beach price of low value freshwater fish was estimated at K Sh 2.00 per kg;
high value, K Sh 6.00. The average ex-beach price of low value marine fish
was estimated at K Sh 4.00 per kg; high value, K Sh 6.00. Fresh tilapia from
ponds would fetch an average of K Sh 8.00 per kg. At full development, in
Project year 6, incremental production would represent only 6% of current
national production (para. 4.09). This increase is not likely to depress
prices. Moreover, tLe above prices are generally lower than prices for com-
parable fish products observed in other developing countries, after taking
into account the relative scarcity of foreign exchange and other factors.
5.04      In Lake Victoria the low value portion of catches would consist
mainly of haplochromis species and engraulicypris. The high value portion
would be predators such as Nile perch and tilapia species. Marine catches
would yield mostly high value pelagic species such as king fish and tuna,
as well as low value shark and ray. Marketable yields of valuable crustacea,
and of demersal species such as snapper and grouper would also increase some-
what, due to the availability of ice. Average price estimates also reflect
those species. Most high value species have a long term export potential
which, if realized, is likely to fetch higher prices. In view of the present
uncertainty, however, this factor has been conservatively ignored in the price
estimates.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
6.01      The principal economic benefits resulting directly from Project
investments would consist of increased marketed production of fish. Fishermen,
traders, and consumers would share the benefits. The increase would reflect



- 40 -
Incremental catches in the Indian Ocean, production of the Fish Farming
Development Center, and reduction of post-harvest losses in the marine and
Lake Victoria fisheries. Refrigeration and improved handling and transport
are also expected to increase the quality of fish and its value. The value
of annual incremental benefits is estimated at about US$2.1 million at full
development in Project year 6. No significant foreign exchange benefits are
expected to result from Project investments. However, while immediate export
prospects are uncertain, some of the Project incremental production has export
potential.
B. Economic Rate of Return
6.02      The overall economic rate of return from Project investments is
estimated at 16% over 20 years. The economic rate of return from the invest-
ments in Lake Victoria fisheries is estimated at 16%; Indian Ocean fisheries
18%. The analysis Included the direct economic benefits (para. 6.01) and all
Project investment costs, except research, studies, and training costs not
related to the quantified economic benefits, such as training of fish farming
extension staff. Fishermen's labor costs were included in the analysis.
Hired labor was valued at the market wage rate which is assumed to reflect its
opportunity cost. The labor of self-employed fishermen was valued at twice
the market wage rate to reflect the relative scarcity of entrepreneurs. This
ratio approximates the average variance in actual earnings. Foreign exchange
costs were valued at US$1 = K Sh 10.5 as opposed to the prevailing rate of US$
1 = K Sh 7.5 to reflect the scarcity of foreign exchange. Cost and benefits
calculations are based on prices expected to prevail in June 1980 in Kenya.
These prices were adjusted to arrive at the corresponding shadow price and to
reflect expected relative movement on the world market prices of petroleum
products. The establishment of the Fish Farming Development Center (para.
2.19) is a pilot operation to test the commercial viability of warm water fish
farming in Kenya, and assemble operational and organizational data to plan
further expansion. The Center would train fisheries extension staff, carry
out applied research, and produce fish seed. It would be the nucleous for
development of fish farming among smallholders. The introduction of small-
holders to fish farming technology would start in the third year of the
Project and would be expanded in a second phase to be prepared under this
Project. The proposed size for the Fish Farming Development Center was
determined on the basis of the least cost at which the results of the experi-
ment would be conclusive.
C. Risks
6.03      The Project's design is technically basic and simple, a feature
that is expected to minimize risks. Incremental production targets are
modest (para. 4.09), and well within the most conservative estimates of
resources availability. With the exception of fish farming, the Project's
success does not depend on new or untried technology. While tilapia farming
has been going on for some time in Kenya, yields have generally been lower



- 41 -
than those projected for the proposed Fish Farming Development Center. This
component is experimental, and limited in scope because its ultimate viability
is uncertain.  Fishermen are well aware of the advantages of refrigeration,
and those who have had the opportunity to use engines have become very profi-
cient in their operation and maintenance.
6.04      The principal risk the Project would face is failure of the coopera-
tives to manage the fishing centers effectively and to operate their facili-
ties, mainly the ice plants and refrigerated stores efficiently. This risk
is likely to be mitigated if the cooperatives receive the support and confi-
dence of most fishermen in the areas they are serving. The cooperatives'
ability to provide improved services would be a significant motivating factor.
Private operators would lack the financial incentive to provide the same
services to fishermen. The Government wishes to promote and guide the
development of the fishermen's cooperatives but finds it neither appropriate
nor feasible that their management and operation become direct long term
Government responsibilities. It would appear that the only realistic long
term solution is for the cooperatives to operate the fishing centers to be
established under the Project.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
6.05      It is difficult to quantify management risks.  The most critical
activity of the fishing centers, however, would be the production of ice.
Management inefficiencies could result in lower ice production and reduce the
expected benefits from refrigeration. It is estimated that the ice plants
would run 16 hours a day, 230 days per year at full Project development.
If the average running time were reduced to 12 hours per day, the economic
rate of return would be reduced by one percentage point to 15%. If the
plants operated 200 days per year instead of 230 days per year, the economic
rate of return would be 15%. If the ice plants were operated three shifts
per day, instead of two, which is common practice in several countries, the
economic rate of return would increase from 16% to 18%. If foreign exchange
costs were not shadow priced, the economic rate of return would be 20%.
E. Income Distribution and Employment
6.06      The relative poverty level in Kenya was calculated at US$122 per
capita per year in 1978. About 80% of prospective Project beneficiaries
currently earn the equivalent of US$80 per capita per year on the average
including subsistence. The Project is therefore addressing the needs of the
poorer segments of Kenyan society. At full development, beneficiaries'
average annual per capita incomes would have increased by about 50% to US$120
in constant 1979 monetary units.
6.07      Employment creation would be modest.  The Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources and the Cooperatives would employ approximately 150
additional people to provide Project related services. New jobs would also
be created through the Project's construction activities.



- 42 -
VII. GOVERNMENT BUDGET
7.01      The cost of operating the fishing center" --"le be recovere;l from
the fishermen by the cooperative societies mostly through sales commissions.
The Government would in turn recover most development costs of the fishing
centers, including the cost of all renewable machinery and equipment, and
working capital advances directly from the cooperatives. The Government
does not intend to recover the cost of roads, buildings, and other permanent
installations at the fishing centers directly, because it considers them an
extension of basic infrastructures that would benefit the population at large.
Direct charges to recover these costs would act as disincentives to participa-
tion in the Project. Some of these costs would be recovered indirectly
through taxation of Project benefits and beneficiaries. The use of the
Project shore facilities would not be limited to members of fishermen's
cooperatives.
7.02      If the pilot experiment is successful, it is expected that all
costs related to the production of the Fish Farming Development Center,
including the development costs, would be recovered through the sale of fish
(para. 4.08). The cost of research, training, and studies for further aqua-
culture development could only be recovered after the Project period to
the extent that the Government decided to expand production of fish from
ponds. This decision would largely depend on the performance of the Fish
Farming Development Center.
7.03      During the Project period, the Government would contribute about
K Sh 23 million (US$3.1 million) to Project expenditures (para. 2.43).
Average annual direct expenditures for Project related services are estimated
at about K Sh 8.0 million (US$1.1 million) from 1980 to 1990 at current prices,
reflecting current estimate of price increases in Kenya and worldwide (para.
2.42). It is expected that the Government would recover most Project related
capital and recurrent expenditures through direct taxes and loan repayments
and fund the balance from general revenues. The Project related Government
cash flow shows a cumulative cash flow deficit of K Sh 9.6 million (US$1.3
million) for ten years (Table 3).
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a) the site of the Fish Farming Development Center (para 2.19)
would be at Kabonyo or at any other suitable location
acceptable to IDA, should Kabonyo be unavailable;
(b) the terms of reference of the Project Unit and of key staff;
(c) the Project boats would be insured by the cooperative
societies on behalf of their members (para 3.08).



- 43 -
8.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained:
(i)  that separate Project accounts would be kept (para. 2.50);
(ii) that the accounts prepared by the Project financial controller
woulu be forwarded to IDA not later than six months following
the end of the financial year to which they relate (para. 2.50);
(iii)  that independent auditors acceptable to IDA would continue to
be appointed to audit Project related entities and accounts
(para. 2.50);
(iv) that arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be made for
the audit of expenditures made against certificates of
expenditure (para. 2.50);
(v)  that the Government would consult with IDA before appointing
key Project staff (para. 3.05);
(vi) that the Government would submit terms of reference and
qualifications of consultants and internationally recruited
experts engaged for the Project to IDA for its approval
and consult with IDA on their appointment (para. 3.06);
(vii)  that the management of the ice plants in Kisumu and Homa
Bay would devolve to cooperative societies after no less
than two yeirs of operation and with the approval of the
Project Man.ger, the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources, MOCD, CBK, and the interested cooperative
(para. 3.07); and
(viii)  that the Government would prepare a completion report
summarizing Project performance and evaluating its success
and that this report would be submitted to IDA not later
than six months after the expected closing date (para. 3.11).
8.03      The appointment of the Project Manager would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (para. 3.05).
8.04      The following would be conditions of Credit disbursement for the
components indicated below:
(a) Regarding Fisheries Research on Lake Victoria (para. 2.26),
IDA's approval of detailed programs;
(b) Regarding fish farming (paras. 2.19-2.25 and 2.30-2.32),



- 44 -
(i)   the appointment of an aquaculturist and a hatchery
specialist (para. 2.32);
(ii)   IDA's approval of a site for the Fish Farming
Development Center (para. 2.34);
(iii)   the creation of the Fish Farming Development Center
as an autonomous entity (para. 3.09);
(c)  Regarding development studies and activity in the Lake Victoria
Basin (para. 2.35) IDA's approval of a detailed investment
plan; and
(d)  Regarding shore facilities and fishing craft (paras. 2.04-2.18);
the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to
IDA between the Government and CBK (para. 2.45).
8.05      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Project
would be suitable for a Credit of US$10 million to the Government of Kenya on
standard IDA terms.
May, 1980



- 45 -
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
ANNEXES
1.   Development Cost Projections
Table  1.   Project Costs Summary
Table  2.   Lake Victoria - Shore Facilities - Capital Costs
Table  3.   Indian Ocean - Shore Facilities - Capital Costs
Table  4.   Fishing Craft and Gear - Investment Cost
Table  5.   Fish Farming Development Center - Investment Costs
Table  6.   Fisheries Research - Lake Victoria
Table  7.   Boatbuilding - Training and Research
Table  8.   Fish Farming - Research and Training
Table  9.   Staff Training, Research and Studies - Investment Costs
Table 10.   Management Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 11.   Summary of Investments
Table 12.   Average Vehicle Maintenance and Operating Costs.
2.  A.  Lake Victoria Fisheries
B. Marine Fisheries
3.   Fishing Cooperatives - Selected Statistics
4.   Aquaculture
5.   Financial Analysis
Table  1.   Lake Victoria - Shore Facilities - Consolidated
Pro-forma Cash Flow
Table  2.   Indian Ocean - Shore Facilities - Consolidated
Proforma Cash Flow
Table  3.   Fish Farming Development Center - Pro-forma Cash Flow
Table  4.   Lake Victoria Shore Facilities - Operating Costs
Table  5.   Indian Ocean - Shore Facilities - Operating Costs
Table  6.   Fish Farming Development Center - Operating Costs
Table  7.   "Sesse" canoe
Table  8.   "Mashua" Dhow
Table  9.   Mechanized Gillnetter
Table 10.   Mechanized "Mashua"
Table 11.   CBK Balance Sheet at Year Ended June 30
Table 12.   CBK Profit and Loss Statement for the Year Ended June 30
(KSh Million)
Table 13.   CBK Funds Statement at Year ended June 30
Table 14.   CBK Schedule of Selected Financial Indicators
Table 15.   CBK Past Due Loans at 10/31/78
Appendix 1. Basic Assumptions



- 46 -
ANNEXES (Continued)
6.   Economic Analysis
Table  1.   Economic Benefits
Table  2.   Economic Costs
Table  3.   Economic Rate of Return
Table  4.   Lake Victoria Fisheries - Economic Rate of Return
Table  5.   Marine Fisheries - Economic Rate of Return
Appendix 1. Basic Assumptions



- 47 -
KENYA FISHERIES PROJECT                        Table 1
Proposed Staffing
I/
Senior-           Junior
Personnel Originating from:            Staff              Staff             Total
lo Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources                7                  87                 94
2. Ministry of Cooperative
Development                          1                   2                  3
3. Cooperative Bank of Kenya            -                    1                 1
4. Cooperative Societies                 -                 50                 50
Total        8                 140                148
1/ Job group K or equivalent and above.
May 8, 1980



- 48 -
Table 2
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Costs Summary
(K Sh '000)
--------------------- Year --------------------                                 Foreign
Total       Exchange
O         1          2          3          4        _5               0-5             2
Shore Facilities
Lake Victoria                                100      4,710      5,171     1,367        600        -            11,948           43
Indian Ocean                                 200     4,716      2,798      1,148        708      1,427          10,997           49
Sub-Total                                  300     9,426      7,969      2,515      1,308      1,427          22,945           46
Fishing Craft & Gear
Motorsailers                                 -          697     1,394      2,091      2,788        -             6,970           47
Engines                                      -           98        199       199        249        -               745           63
Sailboats                                    -           90        134       157        179        -               560            4
Sub-Total                                  -         885      1,727      2,447      3,216        -             8,275           46
Fish Farming Development Center
Development Cost                             -        5,673     2,912          92       -          -             8,677           54
Equipment                                    -          386        269       426        -          -             1,081           72
Working Capital                               64        323        436       666        325        -             1,814           48
Sub-Total                                   64     6,382      3,617      1,184        325        -            11,572           55
Training, Research, & Studies
Freshwater Fisheries Research                -          642        699       291        279        267           2,178           71
Boat Building - Research &-Training          326        603       371      2,198        406         61           3,965           59
Fish Farming - Research & Training           250      7,895     5,033      2,421      2,584      1,974          20,157           57
Staff Training                               676        148        48         64         48        -               984           50
Studies and Technical Assistance           1,463        450       300        300        300        300           3,113           67
Sub-Total                               2,715      9,738      6,451      5,274      3,617     2,602           30,397           59
Management, Monitoring & Evaluation
Capital Cost                                 235      1,001     1,069        329        -          -             2,634           69
Operating Cost                                93        921     1,364      1,480      1,480      1,480           6,818           17
Sub-Total                                  328     1,922      2,433      1,809      1,480      1,480           9,452           31
Total Base Cost                            3,407    28,353    22,197    13,229        9,946      5,509          82,641           50
Physical Contingencies                       340     2,835      2,220      1,323        995        551           8,264           50
Price Contingencies 1/                       160     4.224      5,238      4,299      4,157      2,848          20,926           47
Total Contingencies                        500     7,059      7,458      5,622      5,152     3,399          29,190            48
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         3,907    35,412    29,655    18,851    15,098         8,908         111,831           50
1/ Base costs estimated at prices expected to prevail in June 1980.
Price contingencies were estimated as follows:
Foreign Exchange Costs             Local Costs
1980              10.5% per annum                 10% per annum
1981               9.0% per annum                 10% per annum
1982               8.0% per annum                 10% per annum
1983-1985            7.0% per annum                  7% per annum
February 19, 1980



- 49 -
Table 3
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
(KSh Million)
------------------- Project Year ----------------------------
0      1       2      3       4       5      6       7      8       9     10
Sources of Funds
IDA                     2.3    3.7    9.0   11.3   15.0   15.0   18.7          -      -       -      -
Taxes & Duties          0.4    3.9    3.8    3.2    3.0    2.6    3.5    3.7    4.0    4.2    4.7
CBK - - Amortization    -        -       -      -       -      -       -      6.4    6.4    6.4    6.5
- Interest         -       -      -      0.9    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.6    1.1    0.4    0.2
Fishermen                -       -      1.0    1.0      -      -       -       -      -       -      -
Total Sources       2.7    7.6   13.8   16.4   19.8   19.4   24.0   11.7   11.5   11.0   11.4
Uses of Funds
Project Expenditures   3.9   35.4   29.7   18.8   15.1    8.9    7.5    8.0    8.6    9.2    9.9
IDA Service Charge 4/   -        -     0.1    0.2    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6
Total Uses          3.9   35.4   29.8   19.0   15.4    9.3    8.0    8.6    9.2    9.8   10.5
Net Cash Flow           (1.2) (27.8) (16.0)  (2.6)   4.4   10.1   16.0    3.1    2.3    1.2    0.9
Cumulative Net Cash
Flow                 (1.2) (29.0) (45.0) (47.6) (43.2) (33.1) (17.1) (14.0) (11.7) (10.5)  (9.6)
1/  In current prices
2/ Includes estimated incremental sales and excise taxes
3/ Loan amount KSh 25.7 million. Average grace period: 4 years. Average life of loan:
6 years. Average final maturity: 8 years. Interest rate: 7% p.a.
4/  Standard IDA terms
March 12, 1980



- 50 -
Table 4
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                 Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                       at Quarter End
(US$ thousand)
1980-81
September 30, 1980
December 31, 1980 a/                                      -
March 31, 1981                                           100
June 30, 1981                                            200
1981-82
September 30, 1981                                       300
December 31, 1981                                        400
March 31, 1982                                           600
June 30, 1982                                            800
1982-83
September 30, 1982                                     1,000
December 31, 1982                                      1,300
March 31, 1983                                         1,600
June 30, 1983                                          2,000
1983-84
September 30, 1983                                     2,400
December 31, 1983                                      2,800
March 31, 1984                                         3,200
June 30, 1984                                          3,500
1984-85
September 30, 1984                                     4,000
December 31, 1984                                      4,500
March 31, 1985                                         5,000
June 30, 1985                                          5,500
1985-86
September 30, 1985                                     6,000
December 31, 1985                                      6,500
March 31, 1986                                         7,000
June 30, 1986                                          7,500
19"6-87
September 30, 1986                                     8,000
December 31, 1986 b/                                   9,000
March 31, 1987                                        10,000
June 30, 1987 c/                                         _
a/  Expected Date of Effectiveness - October 15, 1980
b/ Expected Date of Project Completion
c/ Closing Date.
December 13, 1979



KENYA
FIShERIES PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
(K Sh '000)
------------------------------------------------------------------------       Y ear  ------- -    -     -    -     -     -     -    -     -     -     -    -     -
0          1         2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11         12         13         14        15-19
Economic Benefits
Post-Harvest Loss Savings                -          -       1,062      2,125      3,187      4,250      4,250      4,250      4,250      4,250      4,250      4,250      4,250      4,250      4,250      4,250
Fish Production                          -          -        1,850     3,600      5,650      7,700      8,400      8,400      8,400      8,400      8,400      8,400      8,400      8,400      8,400      8,400
Marketing                                -          -          738     1,475      2,213      2,950      2,950      2,950      2,950      2,950      2,950      2,950      2,950      2,950      2,950      2,950
Total Economic Benefits                -          -       3,650      7,200    11,050    14,900    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600
Economic Costs
Capital Costs                          1,707    14,389    13,207       5,826      4,822      1,629      1,287      2,038      1,005        242        820      5,347      5,546      1,249        765        526
Operating Costs                          314      2,021     3,812      5,311      5,621      6,223      6,223      4,943      4,943      4,943      4,943      4,743      4,743      4,743      4,743      4,743
Physical Contingencies                   171      1,440     1,321         584       483        163        129        203        100         24         83        535        554        126         77         52
Adjustment for Working Capital          (332)   (1,362)   (2,018)   (2,533)   (1,462)   (1,100)           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Adjustment for Taxes                    (282)   (2,280)   (2,382)   (1,561)   (1,441)   (1,099)   (1,052)            (978)     (832)      (725)      (807)   (1,413)   (1441)        (839)      (771)      (738)
Adjustment for Foreign Exchange          299      2,454     2,419      1,356      1,197        757        703        721        554        432        524      1,235      1,266        579        501        463
Incremental Fishing Effort               -           90        150       200        250        500        500        500        500        500        500        500        500        500        500        500
Total Economic Costs                1,877    16,752    16,509        9,183      9,470      7,073      7,790      7,427      6,270      5,416      6,063    10,947    11,168       6,358      5,815      5,546
Net Economic Benefits               (1,877)  (16,752)  (12,859)   (1,983)    1,580         7,827      7,810      8,173      9,330    10,184       9,537      4,653      4,432      9,242      9,785    10,054
Economic Rate of Return:  16 %
February 18, 1980



KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
Fisheries Department 1980 Organization Chart
Minister of Environment
and Natural Resources
I     Perrnanent Secretary
Director of Fisheries    |-m                           Director Research Institute    11_
| Assistant Director of                              Assistant Director of                             Assistant Director of    |                  Assistant Director of Fisheries
Fisheries (Marine & Coastal)                            Fisheries (West)                                Fisheries (Central)                         (Research and Development)
us
Senior Fisheries       Senior Fisheries          Senior Fisheries        Senor Fseries             Senior Fisheries        Senior Fisheries           Senior Fisheries       Senior Fisheries
OeniorcFisheries       Ofnicr Fisheries          Ofnicr Fisheries        Ofnicr Fisheries          Officr Fisheries   Oeficr Flsheries                Officer               Officer
Officer                Officer                   Ofticer                 Officer                   Officer                 Oificer                Marketing and           Research and
Mombasa                Deep Sea                Lake Victoria           Fish Farning              Coordination            Fish-Farming                 Statistics             Training
Fisheries              Fisheries                 Fisheries               Fisheries                 Fisheries               F                         Fisheries               Fisheries
Officers              Officers                   Officers               Officers                   Officers                Officers                  O                       Officers
Assistant                                        Assistant               Assistant                                         Assistant                                         Assistant
Fisheries                                        Fisfseries              Fisheries                                         Fisheries                                         Fisheries
Officers                                         Officers                Officers                                          Officers                                          Officers
January 31, 1980WWorld Bank - 21403
rt



KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Committee
PROJECT
MANAGER
Procurement Officer
Financial Controller
Sr. Statistical Officer
Sr. Cooperative Officer
Area Manager ~ ~ ~ ~ m     uide
Kirsumu         Manager                                    F _A_r_e_a_  _  ___ u  Manager anmMasd
Ki5umu* Fish Farming,Mom a .
R   Development Center
X    1-H   XT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
a       L~~~~~~~n
| Fishing Centers -Lake Victoria           I                     Fishing Centers - -Indian Oceanl
.            ~~~~~~~~~Boat Building  Boat Building
L   . |    _ _  _             ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Yard  Yard            _ ;_
l   l   l          l~~~~~~~~~~~~7  Kisum u  Mombasa and MalindiI          
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fam 
Jnsrngitina
January 1980                                                                    VWorld Bank- 21404






E T H   I 0   P4I A
oe/~~~~~~, 
SUDAN ~~~TRkAN
-)                     K~F  
TLA'KA'VA   K                                                                                         MANDEPA~M.-bi
ke  A    (ERIC       y      G.,g          7   .  K/RON-~~~~~ -  lT 
______~ ~ ~~~                     E Y                                                                      i
~~~LC!.F 666~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ 
0W60    4  -OK  0o  ii,,O____''_______



I
I
I



34!c5o         <z          \w uBo                                   ;-         -         -.        -                                 T , br, ood  uu rsow      S                      o    ].Cc
UGA N DA                                                                                                                                                a  -  Kakameg A                       5.       E T HI OP I A
'SOMALJA
_  0  Ukm P g / Buf.3re(tta ~~~~~~~~~ >> @U g (ANtKNYA  
; X ~~~a oSk<,lgcng0BIU -<
SA ' 2 e ~~~ _ >Ei seno:Ljk                                                                                         33-0'
).4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \ ( ~~~~~~~~~~Inlernrotlonol trunk rod osprralr surface lO
\  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.. I NaeLiurc  trunk rooasaspnalr surfcce
iYord 33SSSAnnO,cas.rt/.                                                                                   iol                                                Prrmary roads. aspha surface
sue@ C=unnere 55N O/ d d uf                                                                                                                                                                                                  A
Thd d ea3viosw used aRdhdffle   r>                                     ro 4rT o Siccr.crI  *                                            PrIma ry roa ds, oorth ,rfuu so
i  =         r  C v    ~~~T AN    Z  A   N   I A                     \rAIOEE5                  s       I               15 20racass cis bouudoriec 
-01W                                                                                                                                             - a-ernrionol b- undies -                 oo






38                                                34 '0                                                               /4'1 5p/enp7Cog,n   rpt
0o   o     FISHERIES    PROJEC                                                                                                     KILOMETERS 0   10  20 30  40   0  60   7         0 EO  90  100o
F15HERIES  PROJECT I,...... .
Indian   Ocean                                                                                                         MILES o)    10      20     30      40 5 0        6O
*       Proposed fishing centers
*      Proposed fishing stnations
Fishing grounds                                                   Gariona
Fisheries Department headquarters
.I      Fisheries Department boatyords                       Ncbi            N   -
100 fathom  line                                                                     -            r'
Direction of ocean currents                                                                                  iS    M    A    L  I A
; -' Direction of monsoon winds
*'   +~ Airfields / landing strips
'     Raiiways                                                                  o    .                                       r
1 ASPHALT EARTH                                                                       \     %                                                                                                 c
_5HLVun International frunk roads
Natisonal trunk roads
-     Primary roads
------ Secondary roads                                                                            . 
District boundcries                                                                         "\
Provincial boundaries                                                                           N 'N \/
International boundaries                                                       Hula
O     X.-jC  =
T A N Z A N I A   *\           <                            t                           I q S               aANI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  D A  NE OEAVr
,  /VA 39   i)nsf,o >\   t    4Po                     t       ii          2             A        N
rrrdt, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~TAUA1 :1           6ily                                                                                                      '1& b
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+
N  I  a                                              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UA 
'~~~~~~~~~n  no~~~~~~~~~~~  I,.. 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAI
N  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
T      N Z          N I                                                                     A                                                                            NAZNAO2A
knr~~~ v,ror    'N   Ttoo~~~~~~~4?t  ~ ~ ~   /56ot~~~l}kryp,  -or  ~~~~~~    doom,~k
4n  2  .4o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
!  1                               olindi                           V Q           C       F      A        N~~~~~~~~~~ZABI
A  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OABO
39-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ti opbab. rprdb h



I



Fig. 1
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
SELECTED FISHING METHODS
Marking
i/  nCanoe                                                              About 40 M                                            Fiag
Sailing Canoe                     ., /
Surface ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~    0                       c
Line                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~About 2 m
Sinkers
ine                                                                                  About 20m~~bou 8C
BotBi                    o
.................... ......ainWo                                                                                   Ma
ZSailin Canoe Lin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vol Ban -lAbu 2082






KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
SELECTED FISHING METHODS
Motor Trawler
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rw ,Net
BOTTOM TRAWBL OET                       O
Otte,Bdr Bar
L     a-v Net 
| AB-OIJT 9rl
LI E A C H  S E I N E 
Wo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vr d B-nk 208Bc,






Fig.
KENYA
FISHERIES PROJECT
SELECTED FISHING METHODS
.:......vi.                                           .        .....                                           .... ... . .. .B
~~~~~~ ...........V.%%
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............                               ..                                               .,  ...x
</ | \\ / ... n ....  -                                                                                             X.. ... . ...
Fisherman
Krosene                                                                                           Fisnerman
Lamp
Surface
DIP NET   #                                                                                                              Paddle
Fine Mesh Net
About 5 mn
2 Sailing Canoes
TRAWL NET (MID-WATER)
~~~+  ~~~~~~~-            \rr a~~~~~F-ots
~~~--_        )   _T~~~ravvl Net
Bottom
World Bank - 20827






I  S~~~~~~~~
X oD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... - -e@wb          ----
U.1t |    i    ------
m ~    "                 _ _                                                         7 , z   
o     '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5-
I  *~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
00m
Imm
C'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~      ~~ o
=           -5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3O  3 3






Fig. 5
"Sesse" canoes of Lake Victoria Provide subsistence incomes for about






Fig. 6
Sailing  "mshiin"  Ahnnrc  nn  Varmm7 I Or.rel_                              1






I               -~~~~~~~~W
wr'~-  xr Fig.  7
, M,i, . i x * .  -  ;
* ~~~~~~~ 
AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
i                                                :71~~~i
;j
Lack of ice and transp      o  rs te mg of L                              V
ss ''-;''~~~~It -
b _!k ' ak'z'""' - ' i- - .~~
X '', S '-y d ;a%~~~~~~~~~~*s
F\~~~~~~~~~~
4, 4                             ,,,s'    *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r w  %               /e    w w ,
Lack of ice and transportation restricts the marketing of Lake Victoria?'s






6                         6
x                A                        A               x                                                                                         Al
A                       A___WS
2: 1<  ,t                                                    M: \, 1                                                                2:1
A                       ~                                               j       2E4         i          fA
A                                                                                                                                                 264~~~~
A                       A
A                       A
SECTION X - X
A                       A
A                       A                                                                   4                                                                    4
A                       A                                                       .                                                              W.S.
A                       A                                                                  31  11                                                    3-t                   31
_   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
B  B             B    B-E1_P B                                                                                          i94
C   C  C  C Fenced                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIIN _ 590
Fenced                                                                        SECTION Y Y                    - 
sPJw    SPawn   SPe                      E  | E    E
056Ha   0'5He   05H               ||    E E  E
z ed                  E E Ete E E ET                                                                           Fish Farming Development Center
LEGEND                       Surface Area
A    Production Ponds          2 7 Ha
S - Storage Ponds              0.2 Hs
Building Aena                                                                             C    Nursing Ponds           3-1.0 He-1-0.5 Ha
for Hatcher;   '           \    Building Ares                                             D    Spawning Ponds            0.5 Ha
SIted, Labors.  \  N' for Garage, Workshop,                                       E    E.wrerirenal Ponds - 18 - 0.05 Ha - B - 0.1 H.
tory. &Sotaff'   Stares, Off ion. Clasaroone,
Note.  Nursing and spawning ponds to be fenced to prevenh
frogs fr.. entering
Nute. All dimensions in  nters
Mul Ruad
World Bank -20d35



