Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 24210
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-45880)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 777.78 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
May 7, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 7, 2002)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
TL I = US$ 0.00000073
US$ 1 = TL 1,366,862
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMU    - Asset Management Unit
BRSA    - Bank Regulation and Supervision Agency
CAS   - Country Assistance Strategy
CPI - Consumer Price Index
EFIL - Export Finance Intermediation Loan
ERL - Economic Reform Loan
EU - European Union
FDI - Foreign Direct Investment
FX - Foreign Exchange
FSAL - Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GNP - Gross National Product
GOT - Government of Turkey
IAS - Intemational Accounting Standards
IFI - Intemational Financial Institutions
IMF - Intemational Monetary Fund
NBFI - Non-Bank Financial Institutions
PSAL - Public Sector Adjustment Loan
SBRPP - State Bank Restructuring and Privatization Project
SDIF - Savings Deposit Insurance Fund
WPI - Wholesale Price Index
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Ajay Chhibber
Sector Director:  Paul Siegelbaum
Program Team Manager:  Lalit Raina



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                7
6. Sustainability                                                                    8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  10
9. Partner Comments                                                                 10
10. Additional Information                                                         IS
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P0665 11                                     Project Name Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Lalit Raina                                 TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date- May, 7, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Financial Sector Adjustment Loan              L/C/TF Number. SCL-45880
Country/Department: TURKEY                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FF - Financial Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/06/99                              Effective: 01/15/2001         12/22/2000
Appraisal:  01/19/2000                               MTR:
Approval:  12/21/2000                             Closing: 03/31/2002         06/20/2001
Borrowver/InplemenitingAgenicy: REPUBLIC OF TURKEY/UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY/BRSA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Ajay Chhibber                            Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:      Paul Siegelbaum                          Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:  Lalit Raina                              Lalit Raina
ICR Primary Avthor:  Michael Gascoyne
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Developmnent Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Bo0rower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) was to address the
Government of Turkey's (GOT's) financial sector reform priorities in order to lay the foundation
for an efficient, sound and healthy banking system which could be competitive in quality and
performance at the international level.



The Turkish banking system expanded rapidly during the 1990s and, in spite of the 1994-95
banking crisis, total system assets in absolute terms more than doubled from US$52.0 billion in
1994 to US$135.5 billion as of end 1999. However, the rapid growth in the size of the banking
sector also had some negative consequences. Prudential regulations and enforcement capacity
had lagged behind considerably, and there had been a significant proliferation of connected and
insider lending and excessive concentration of exposure and default risks. The explosive asset
growth had allowed banks to hide the deteriorating quality of a major proportion of their credit
portfolios; while at the same time credit risks had been significantly understated due to previous
lenient loan loss provisioning rules. Excesses in foreign currency exposures and in maturity
tramnsformation generating significant duration mismatches had also created enhanced foreign
currency and liquidity risks in addition to the credit risks. There was therefore a clear need for a
sectoral reform program which would raise regulatory standards, increase enforcement capacity
and support the resolution of non-viable banks.
Following the April 1999 parliamentary elections, the new Government launched a sweeping
economic reforn program designed to tame inflation and restore the economy to a stable path of
high growth. The program combined: (a) tighter fiscal policies, designed to put public finances on
a sustainable path, with (b) a nominal exchange rate anchor designed to lower inflationary
expectations, (c) tighter incomes policies centered on the adjustment of civil service salaries to
targeted inflation, and (d) structural reforms aimed at restoring growth and underpinning fiscal
adjustment. The program's macro-economic framework was endorsed by the IMF through a
multi-year, US$4 billion Standby arrangement approved in December 1999. The Bank and IMF
collaborated closely on the structural measures in the program, including those supported by the
FSAL, through intensive day-to-day cooperation between the two institutions, participation by
Bank staff in the Standby program discussions, and joint IMF/Bank missions on financial sector
reform issues.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Starting in late November 2000, Turkey experienced a banking system liquidity crisis which saw
overnight interest rates climb above 2,000% per annum. The crisis was caused by increased
market skepticism about the ongoing GOT fiscal and monetary program and was triggered by the
need of a medium-sized private bank (Demir) to refinance an excessive stock of Government
securities. The root of the problem however actually lay in the needs of two state owned banks,
Ziraat and Halk, to finance illiquid "duty losses" (claims on the GOT arising from subsidised loans
made at the behest of the government); at the time of the crisis, these duty losses accounted for
13% of total banking system assets. In light of the crisis, the Government moved rapidly to
implement the remaining required actions for the FSAL, especially regarding the reforms of the
state owned banks. The FSAL, a two tranche loan, was approved by the Board on December 21,
2000, and the first tranche of US$ 392.8 million was disbursed the following day. Despite this,
the markets remained concemed that the pace of reform was slowing and in February 2001,
following the public airing of tensions between the President and Prime Minister (on an unrelated
topic), there was another, much more serious crisis. This set off a new wave of turbulence in the
financial sector as investors liquidated Turkish Lira (TL) positions and fled to foreign currencies
in expectation of a full fledged political crisis. Interest rates once again spiked, this time as high
- 2 -



as 6,200% per annum, and with a rapid depletion of the Central Bank of Turkey's (CBT's)
foreign currency reserves apparent, the authorities were forced to abandon the IMF backed
crawling-peg exchange rate mechanism and float the TL.
Following these two crises, it became clear to the GOT that it was necessary to accelerate and
broaden the reform agenda while retaining considerable flexibility in the immnediate post-crisis
period. To this end, the GOT and the Bank agreed to implement a series of 5-6 single tranche
programmatic loans in both the financial and public sectors. The first of these loans, the US$ 1.1
billion Programmatic Financial and Public Sector Adjustment Loan (structured as two loans, one
for US$ 400 million on SSAL terms and one for US$ 700 million on standard IBRD terms), was
approved by the Board on July 12, 2001 and disbursed on July 17, 2001. Though the immediate
cause of the February crisis was attributable to weaknesses in the financial sector, its deeper roots
lay in the structure and management of the public sector, which were at the core of Turkey's
chronic macroeconomic instability. Recognising that neither sector could move forward in a
sustainable manner without parallel improvements in the other sector, the financial and public
sector reform programs were bound together in the PFPSAL (and the subsequent PFPSAL II).
The financial sector reform program was restructured as a series of Programmatic Adjustment
Loans (two PFSALs are envisaged to follow PFPSAL II) to be implemented over a three year
period. Any goals originally established under FSAL, to the extent that they remain relevant but
were not incorporated into PFPSAL, will be picked up in subsequent operations. A similar
strategy has been mapped out for the public sector for which two PPSALs, scheduled through to
the end of 2003, are envisaged to follow PFPSAL II. Following approval of PFPSAL, at the
request of the GOT, the second tranche of FSAL (US$ 385.0 million) was cancelled and the loan
was closed as of June 20, 2001.
3.3 Original Components:
38.   The main objective of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan was to address the
Government's reform priorities in order to create the foundation for an efficient, sound and
healthy banking system which can be competitive in quality and performance at the international
level. The reform actions required to achieve this objective in FSAL included; (i) creation of a
competent and independent Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA); (ii) bringing all
the prudential regulations up to international best practice standards; (iii) empowerment of the
bank failure resolution entity, the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund (SDIF) with a new set of legal
tools and operating guidelines; and (iv) making a major tangible push towards restructuring and
privatization of state-owned banks and getting the Government out of the business of owning and
running commercial banks.
3.4 Revised Components:
As noted above, many of the components of FSAL were subsequently subsumed into PFPSAL,
and the remaining ones have been included in the remaining reform program encompassing the
proposed subsequent financial sector Program loans.
3.5 Quality at Entnr:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on (i) the consistency of objectives with the priorities for
financial sector development (ii) the sequencing of actions undertaken in prior operations and planned for in
future operations (see below), and (iii) the integrated use of both a top down (FSAL) and bottom up (the
Export Finance Intermediation Loan was used to begin a reform dialogue with Turkey's largest private
- 3 -



banks) approach ensuring broad based support for the reform agenda. The project was consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Turkey, which was discussed by the Board in December 2000.
The CAS recognised the critical importance of the financial sector in Turkey's economic stabilisation and
called for a program "focusing on reducing systemic risks and vulnerabilities, while increasing the
sophistication, productivity and competitiveness of the financial sector".
Extract from FSAL President's Report showing the sequencing of the financial sector program:
{ ridc ~~~~~~~mmgement                           financial
r  Baddag  >        \   ~~~~audits - 4 other       instiftudons
M                           bans                      revie
/  Comprebensive >   4  Worehensive
risk management         {    cneesv
audit -                   riangmo
\  Pilot bank            x    
The MOP documented the project and its background particularly well. It also clearly stated there was a
high level of risk that the project might be compromised by a "potential lack of political consensus" and a
"lack of political will to implement the reform of the state-owned banks"; the market's perception of the
lack of political will to carry through the reforms was a major contributor to the February economic crisis.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As noted previously, following the February 2001 financial crisis, the second tranche of FSAL was
cancelled approximately 6 months after effectiveness and hence many of the actions envisaged for second
tranche release were not carried out under this program. However, these actions were subsumed into
PFPSAL (and subsequently implemented prior to disbursement of the PFPSAL in July 2001), or are
planned to be carried out under PFPSAL H (during or before April 2002). Given the significant disruption
caused by the crises in November 2000 and February 2001, the GOT and the Undersecretariat of Treasury
(the primary implementing agency for FSAL) deserve considerable credit for having achieved the targets
for. first tranche release (see below) as set forth in the MOP. Though the measures undertaken as part of
the FSAL were not sufficient to avert the second macroeconomic crisis in February 2001, the additional
powers granted to the BRSA and the arrangements set in place to ensure its efficient operation probably
reduced the fiscal cost of the post-crisis clean up by facilitating the speedy resolution of problem banks and
preventing a systemic collapse.
4.2 Outputts by conmponents:
The following actions, which were undertaken prior to Board presentation, were vital for kick
starting the banking sector reform program, especially in the area of the restructuring and
privatization of state-owned banks: Many of these actions have been designed and planned during
-4 -



the FSAL preparation period. They included:
Bank Regulatory and Supervision Entitv
*   Passage of the agreed amendment to the banking law (the amendment to enhance the
independence and strengthen the authority of the new BRSA, put in place tightened
large/connected exposure limits, and clarify and strengthen the problem bank and the
bank failure resolution roles and authorities of the BRSA and the SDIF respectively)
(completed in late December 1999);
* Appointment of the Board members of the BRSA (completed in March 2000):
Prudential rules for banks
*   Issuance of a substantially overhauled loan loss provisioning rule (completed in
December 1999), including supporting documentation (revised regulatory report
formats & disclosure requirements and a communique detailing borrower
creditworthiness criteria) (completed in March and June 2000);
*   Issuance of an addendum to the FX exposure rule applying FX exposure limits on a
consolidated basis (completed in late December 1999);
*   Issuance of an addendum to the capital adequacy rule applying the minimum capital
adequacy requirement on a consolidated basis (completed in late December 1999);
Problem bank/bank failure resolution
*   Initiation of an action plan by Treasury covering all problem banks encompassmg
corrective action programs administered by the bank regulatory authority and SDIF
interventions (initiated in late December 1999);
State bank commercialisation and privatisation
*   Enactment of an amendment to the existing law on Vakif bank to enable the bank's full
privatization (completed in November 2000);
*   Passage by the Board of Directors of a decision to initiate the privatization of Vakif
bank(completed in August 2000);
*   Introduction of the new mechanism for the determination of credit subsidy rates to be
used by Ziraat bank and Halk bank (completed in late December 1999);
*   Budgetizing the flow of duty losses arising from new subsidized lending by Ziraat bank
and Halk bank in 2000 (completed with the adoption of the year 2000 budget);
*   Enactment of legislation that will: (i) allow Emlak bank, Halk bank and Ziraat bank to
be privatized; (ii) remove the application of state economic enterprise legislation
(Decree Law No. 233 and related laws) to Emlak bank, Halk bankand Ziraat bank; and
(iii) allow Ziraat bank to be transformed into a joint stock company, (completed in
November 2000);
* Passage by the Council of Ministers of a decision to initiate the privatization of Emlak
bankand Halk bank, that will allow the Treasury a limited, predetermined period of
-5-



time to undertake pre-privatization restructuring and formulate privatization strategies,
and upon expiry of such time, commit the Government to subsequent divestiture in
accordance with the agreed privatization strategies (to be completed in December
2000); and
* Contracting for a first time IAS audit for Ziraat bank for year-end 1999 (completed in
November 2000).
The following actions, second tranche goals under FSAL, were carried out under that program
prior to its cancellation or were carried out under the PFPSAL prior to disbursement of that loan
on July 17, 2001:
Bank Regulatory and Supervision Entity
* Signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the BRSA, the Central Bank of
Turkey and other relevant agencies to ensure proper information exchange and policy
coordination in the financial sector (completed August 2000);
Prudential rules for banks
* Introduction of full tax deductibility of specific loan loss provisions; the
implementation of tax deductibility (completed May 2001);
* Further revision of the loan classification and loan loss provisioning rule to lift the
exemption for agricultural support loans for which the Government has not explicitly
assumed the credit risk and to include a specific provisioning requirement for equity
exposures (completed June 2001);
*   Issuance of a BRSA regulation that will fully operationalize the new large/connected
exposure limits introduced through the December 1999 Banking Law amendment
(completed June 2001);
*   The BRSA to announce its intention to undertake surprise on-site examinations, in
coordination with foreign supervisors where necessary (i.e., for banks with foreign
branches/subsidiaries), to verify compliance with consolidated FX open position limits
between reporting dates (14 overseas branches/subsidiaries have been subject to
surprise inspection);
*   Issuance of a risk management system best practice regulation for banks (completed
February 2001); and
*   Introduction in the bank capital adequacy rule of market risk charges (regulations
issued in October 2001 and January 2002);
State bank commercialisation and privatisation
*   The Government to develop a time bound action plan to resolve the stock of duty
losses on the books of Ziraat and Halk and to issue Government bonds paying cash
interest in line with the action plan (implemenation of action plan began in March
2001); and
*   Initiating the process of developing and implementing commercialization, restructuring
- 6 -



and institutional development measures for Ziraat, through the development of a
comprehensive strategic plan and detailed corporate action plans for the bank
(completed February 2001);
A number of other measures to be taken prior to second tranche release were
modified/strengthened in light of the rapidly deteriorating state of the banking sector, for example:
*   FSAL had mandated that banks submit quarterly regulatory reports on consolidated capital
adequacy - this was revised to monthly reporting under PFPSAL.
*   the financial condition of the state owned Emlak bank had deteriorated to such an extent that
the commercialisation/privatisation plans laid out in FSAL were abandoned and the bank was
merged into Ziraat bank.
It can be seen therefore that, though the FSAL was closed early, the objectives were carried
forward and the actions taken prior to first tranche release formed the foundations for the reforms
already carried out, or to be carried out, under PFPSAL I/Il.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate ofreturn:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Creation of a separate, independent banking regulator, the BRSA, with sufficient powers to
effectively monitor the banking sector was a product of the first tranche of FSAL. The Bank
funded the cost of an experienced bank examiner to work with the BRSA to devise an appropriate
management structure and to develop modem operating procedures and information systems.
Though much has been achieved, the institution still has much to do and, constrained by public
sector pay guidelines and a legal system which holds staff personally liable for their actions, there
is a risk that the BRSA will lose its more capable and dynamic staff to the private sector,
impeding its ability to move forward. The Bank continues to work closely with the BRSA and to
liaise with the GOT on its behalf to ensure it has the resources to effectively carry out its mandate.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The financial crisis of February 2001 threw the government's macroeconomic strategy in to
turmoil. It was forced to abandon its exchange rate based disinflation program and float the Lira,
which immediately lost 30% of its value. The weakness of many of the banks, overly reliant on
the overnight interbank and repo markets for liquidity and with excessive short foreign currency
positions, were quickly exposed. With the banking system in danger of collapsing, the
government was forced to recommit itself to its financial sector reform program and to overcome
the strong political forces which had previously slowed the pace of reform.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The policy actions supported by the FSAL that were subject to Government's control and were
scheduled for implementation prior to the February economic crisis were implemented
- 7 -



satisfactorily. As mentioned in section 4.2, many of the actions scheduled for implementation prior
to the release of the second tranche were carried out, either in their original or in a modified form,
in the months preceding the signing of the PFPSAL.
5.3 Factors generally sutbject to implementing agency control:
The actions supported by the FSAL that were subject to Treasury's/BRSA's control and were
scheduled for implementation prior to the February economic crisis were implemented
satisfactorily. As mentioned in section 4.2, many of the actions scheduled for implementation prior
to the release of the second tranche were carried out, either in their original or in a modified form,
in the months preceding the signing of the PFPSAL.
5 4 Costs andfi nancinig
N/A
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
One of the major risks to the success of the FSAL program was that the political will to carry through the
banking reforms and to resist those members of the Government with a vested interest in maintaining the
status-quo would not be sustained. Many of the early actions undertaken as part of the FSAL program
were designed to transfer direct power away from central government to quasi-autonomous professional
bodies. Thus the powers of the BRSA have been expanded and a professional management structure,
supported by modem information systems, is being developed. Control of the State banks has been
transferred from line ministries to a professional management board, mandated to restructure the banks and
prepare them for privatisation. The SDIF, which prior to the 1999 Banking Act was part of the Central
Bank of Turkey, and had for many years been unsuccessful in the resolution of insolvent banks, has since
1999 dealt with 18 insolvent banks and has either sold or closed 10 of these banks.
In the regulatory field, much of the groundwork for FSAL was laid during the execution of the Export
Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL), which became effective in October 1999. EFIL, intermediated by
Turkey's leading banks, mandated that participating banks adhere to intemational standards in the areas of
credit, foreign exchange and capital management. The Turkish bankers' Association took a great deal of
interest in this 'comprehensive risk management' approach and subsequently, with the assistance of the
Bank, organised a risk management seminar for the country's leading bankers. Thus a consensus began to
develop among Turkey's leading banks for the need for regulatory changes in the banking sector and for the
adoption of modern banking practices. The crises of November 2000 and February 2001 have highlighted
to the whole community the necessity for change in the sector and have helped to anchor the reforms
adopted under FSAL.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regutlar operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during loan preparation was highly satisfactory. The August 1998 crisis
in Russia and the situation in the Asian countries, necessitated a review and analysis of Turkey's
policy and regulatory framework and a vulnerability assessment of the banking sector. Such a
review was undertaken by a Bank mission in November 1998, and based on the assessment of this
- 8 -



mission, a financial sector reform agenda and the Bank's financial sector assistance strategy for
Turkey was developed. This assistance strategy was further reviewed and updated during 1999
and early 2000 as part of ongoing sector dialogue and the new Country Assistance Strategy.
Subsequently, the Bank worked in close collaboration with the GOT and the regulatory agencies
to agree on the policy measures that would form the basis of the adjustment operation. During
loan preparation, Bank staff specialized in banking regulation and supervision provided assistance
to Treasury's technical staff in drafting new norms and regulations. The Bank was also quick to
respond to a request for technical/advisory support when the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund
(SDIF) was considering intervening in 5 insolvent banks in late 1999.
The banking sector liquidity crisis in November 2000 threatened to derail or, at the very least,
delay the implementation of the program. The Bank and the Borrower committed considerable
resources to the project and despite the problems occurring in the sector, the project was declared
effective several weeks ahead of schedule.
7.2 Stupervision:
FSAL was a heavily front-loaded operation, with much of the policy and regulatory reforms being
carried out prior to Board presentation. Following the February economic crisis, the second
phase of FSAL was cancelled, however, the Bank continues to actively engage the Government in
dialogue over reform issues and through the PFPSAL and the PFPSAL II (approved by the Board
April 16, 2002) remains committed to support the broad reform agenda laid out in the FSAL
MOP.
7.3 Overall Bank perfonnance:
Overall, the Bank performance in this operation has been satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Undersecretariat of
Treasury and the BRSA worked in close collaboration with the Bank in defining the scope and
content of the policy measures to be implemented under this operation. However, during
preparation, there were some delays by the Borrower in the implementation of the FSAL
conditions related to restructuring and privatization of state owned banks which delayed the
FSAL by approximately six months
7.5 Governnment implementation perfornzance:
The Government implemented all the agreed first tranche policy measures before Board
presentation. The Government's performance was satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The two main agencies involved in implementing the policy measures supported by this operation
were the Undersecretariat of Treasury and the BRSA. The performance of both agencies was
highly satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance in this operation was satisfactory.
-9-



8. Lessons Learned
The critical lessons from this operation are summarized below:
* a serious macroeconomic stabilization program for the overall economy, which is successfully
implemented and adhered to by the Government is essential for the success of financial sector
reforms (and vice-versa);
* a high degree of political ownership and consensus behind the reform program are necessary
preconditions for the successful adoption and implementation of financial sector reforms. In
an environment like Turkey, where the counterparts are often not the decision makers but are
answerable to elected officials with vested interests in maintaining the status-quo, there is a
problem of ownership of the reforms;
* good preparatory work needs to be conducted and consensus developed amongst all
stakeholders. The intellectual groundwork laid by the Bank through the Banking Sector
Review, EFIL and the risk management workshop allowed it to react quickly and to take on a
leadership role in the resolution of the banking crisis.
* there is sometimes a risk of overestimating institutional capacity; programs need to be
designed with a sharp focus on institutional issues.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Bor-ower/implementing agency:
I.    THE EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF
FSAL
FSAL (Financial Sector Adjustment Loan) included specific targets designed to achieve an
efficient, sound and healthy banking system. To achieve these objectives, the required strategic
actions were planned and scheduled in a matrix. This framework was well-specified and reflected
the necessary stages to achieve the ultimate goal of establishing an ideal banking system
competitive in quality and performance at international standards.
However, we suppose that in trying to accomplish the objectives of the FSAL the anticipated
performance of the BRSA and the Treasury could have been much more satisfactory if more
realistic FSAL benchmarks had been targeted and full consensus of WB mission and the BRSA
staff had been achieved on some of those targets, considering the prevailing economic conditions.
The FSAL objectives along with related measures taken in each area are summarized below.
i.    Creation of the BRSA
According to the Banking Law, enacted in late December 1999, the Banking Regulation and
Supervision Agency (BRSA) was established with high independence and authority.
- 10 -



ii.   Bringing regulations up to intemational standards
Under the regulations that were issued to meet the international standards, the FX position rule
and the capital adequacy rule started to be required both on consolidated and unconsolidated
basis. Moreover, the loan loss provisioning rule has been anended to determine the principles and
procedures for the classification of loans and other receivables of banks according to their
characteristics and for the provisions to be set aside. Also new, it is stated in the "Regulation on
Bank's Intemal Control and Risk Management System" issued on 8 February 2001 that banks
shall establish an intemal supervision (control/audit) system and risk management systems in order
to monitor and control the risks they are exposed to. In addition, revised limits have been imposed
on the banks participation in non-financial institutions. Banks' non-financial subsidiaries are
limited to 15% of total net worth and the sum of all such subsidiaries is limited to 60% of total net
worth with a transition period until 2009.
In addition, other regulations finalized under the FSAL conditions are as follows; the "Regulation
on the Establishment and Operations of the Banks" issued on 27 June 2001 identified the
definition of indirect ownership of shares in order to extend the concept of connected lending.
The communique on the establishment and operations of banks has been put in force in order to
strengthen the regulatory framework. Regarding to this amendment, lending principles and
procedures definitions of indirect shareholding, indirect lending and indirect participation and
non-cash credits have been taken into account in calculation of lending limits. In line with the new
Bank Capital Accord, the market risks both on consolidated and solo basis have been
incorporated in the calculation of Capital Adequacy Ratio and implementation of the rule will start
by 2002.
uii.  Resolution of non-viable banks
The Savings Deposit Insurance Fund (SDIF), which is charged with the resolution of insolvent
banks, was transferred from the Central Bank of Turkey (CBT) to the BRSA in August 1999. In
order to provide empowerment to the "bank failure resolution entity", a new set of legal tools was
introduced, operating guidelines were stated and the bank failure resolution roles and authorities
were shared between the BRSA and the SDIF respectively.
However, FSAL has envisaged that the SDIF should follow the principle of "least cost resolution"
for the existing pipeline of the problem banks. Closing SDIF banks and putting them into
liquidation would be a good idea if there were enough funds to pay off all deposits. We believe
this could have been a resolution alternative in a rising economy with no potential to generate new
non-viable institutions or when there are substantial back-up funds to finance all such operations.
Also, the blanket guarantee imposed over all liabilities of the SDIF banks by FSAL has
paradoxically brought an unpredictable burden on SDIF although there wasn't a serious deposit
withdrawal rationalizing such a scheme.
iv.   Resolution of the present pipeline of problem banks
-1 1-



Despite being dropped in PFPSAL, the FSAL condition for the establishment of a special unit to
deal with problem banks was inappropriate taking into account the difficulty to preserve
confidentiality in such circumstances. We consider the existing segmentation of duties at the
BRSA and the functions of the Enforcement Department enables us to handle bank failure
resolutions effectively without endangering reputation of any bank.
v.    Privatisation of state-owned banks
In order to prepare the state-owned banks for privatisation, the Government has appointed a joint
board for the management of these banks. The sizeable overnight liquidity needs of these banks
was eliminated, and the stock of repurchase agreements of state and the SDIF banks with the
CBT was brought to reasonable amounts. The three state banks, Ziraat, Halk, and Emlak with
negative net worth have been recapitalised.
Since its initiation, the FSAL program successfully encompasses the basic incentives, objectives
and policies necessary for the comprehensive strengthening of the Turkish financial system.
As stated in the report prepared by the World Bank, significant improvements have been achieved
in restructuring of the banking sector during the maturity of the FSAL credit; in particular,
creation of the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA), strengthening the prudential
regulations and restructuring of state-owned banks. The potential distortions created by the
state-owned banks were prevented by both additional regulations and capital injections.
"The Basel approach" requires that a bank should maintain minimum capital in relation to its
risks. In Turkey, it is still debatable for most of banks that capital or the risks corresponding to it
are measured accurately.
However, given the risk of a banking sector originated crisis that accumulated in the last decade,
prudent supervision along with transparency of the banking sector has been a key issue to
overcome for a long time.
In this context, designing a reform program with the objective of efficient, sound and healthy
banking system was very essential and appropriate.
Even though Bank regulatory and supervision Entity (BRSA) has been established and prudent
supervision rules have been put in force, after February crisis and the following months with
negative growth rates in the economy, one may still doubt about the transparency of the banking
system, especially in terms of quality of assets. This is very important as we prepared a draft law
for restructuring the real sector debt to financial sector, based on "Istanbul approach".
State banks having restructured assets may look healthier for the time being. Even if that's true,
Istanbul approach may have a fiscal cost. Recently, the recapitalisation issue has always been the
Treasury's liability at the end as it was for SDIF banks, except for some big private banks.
Therefore, before restructuring the real sector debt we need to know if the current picture of the
- 12 -



NPL is accurate to estimate how much burden is coming. Then we can debate about how much or
any of the burden can the Treasury undertake. Designing a restructuring plan for the real sector
without incorporating financial data in it in today's macro-economic conditions is risky. This
underlines the importance of information exchange among related parties about restructuring
issues.
As for the commercialisation and privatisation of the state banks, so much has been done. In
summary, financial restructuring is mostly finished while operational restructuring is to be finished
by end 2002. The new board of management is capable of decision making within the recent
extensive legal amendments. It could be argued that, in this component, there should have been a
management-contract signed by the board members and the government in order to minimize the
risks while saving some precious time in debates of restructuring.
Turkey adopted a three-year disinflation and economic stabilisation program in 1999. The most
important reason that led Turkey to imnplement this program was an increasingly deteriorating
public finance and its impacts on the economy.
This prograrn also covered structural reforms including strengthening the banking regulation. To
this end, FSAL was implemented. The resource available within FSAL to tackle the financial
sector problems, mainly caused by increasing public sector borrowing requirements and
deteriorating fiscal position of public banks as well as loose banking system control which
definitely did not contribute to a healthy growth, is believed to be insufficient to alleviate the
negative impact of a rapid reform process on public resource/utilisation disequilibrium.
The squeezing of the public spending imposed by tight fiscal policies has created a controversial
environment when it coincided with the need for sizeable spending to make the necessary
adjustments to financial sector. This is why the Bank financing under FSAL devoted to this
purpose was not sufficient, taking into account the financial constraints.
As for the preparation and implementation stages of FSAL, falling into the same time schedule
with Stand-By Arrangement, it would not be wrong to say that the delay in signalling a political
commitment to further implementation of the programme followed by some negative externalities
led to an inevitable underperformance of the borrower.
During the healing of the economy, the reforms related to financial sector are the most costly ones
to the government. A rapid progress in this area is against the facts of the fiscal stance of Turkey.
Although FSAL aimed to assist the country in laying the basis for reducing financial vulnerability,
the stiff measures and constraints imposed, which had to be achieved in a short period of time,
hindered its further success. Nevertheless, significant progress has been maintained and measures
undertaken under the shadow of two financial crises.
Reform measures had to be implemented with parallel to the country's structure. The Bank should
have weighed and appraised the authorities' point of view while adopting certain measures and
- 13 -



actions in the reform program. Promises and policy goals had to be reviewed and designed
whether they could be materialized in such a limited period. Instead of bringing limits, intervals
could have been imposed for the measures both by taking into consideration Turkey's country
specific conditions and financial system's fragility.
FSAL's second tranche was cancelled 61/2 months after effectiveness and hence many of the
actions envisaged for second tranche release were not carried out under this program but with the
PFPSAL. Programmatic errors should have foreseen beforehand and the scope of the reform
program had to be planned attentively at the outset.
II.   THE GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY'S PERFORMANCE DURING
PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FSAL
The three state banks, Ziraat, Halk, and Emlak with negative net worth have been recapitalised,
with the net cost to the public sector amounting to TL 27.6 quadrillion. Similarly, the SDIF
banks have been recapitalised to cover their negative net worth, with a net cost to the public
sector of TL 16.3 quadrillion. Overall, the government has provided a serious effort to
restructure the Turkish banking system.
The financial crises of November 2000 and February 2001 both increased the cost of the
restructuring of the banking sector on government finance and created additional burden on the
banks as well as the real sector.
The long-standing weaknesses of the system were well realised by the Government of Turkey
(GOT) and the November 2000 and February 2001 crises made it inevitable and critical to speed
up the process for taking urgent and timely measures. The GOT, at every stage, moved rapidly to
implement the required actions as far as conditions permitted.
On the other hand, the severe contraction in the economy has aggravated the problem of
non-performing loans of the banking sector. The collaborative works between banks and firms
have been continuing to eliminate the problem.
We believe that alternative approaches regarding the recapitalisation of the banking sector and the
solution of non-performiing loans' problem should be considered in the following programs
together with the satisfactory additional funding.
Regarding the comments on SDIF as part of the Central Bank expressed in the first paragraph of
Section 6.1 of ICR, we would like to stress out the fact that until the June and December 1999
amendments to the Banking Law which aimed at strengthening the exit conditions and resolution
criteria for problem banks, there did not exist a sufficient regulatory framework for the effective
resolution of such banks. Furthermore, the strengthening of such a framework is an ongoing
process which necessitated further steps even in May 2001 amendments to the Banking Law.
- 14 -



Additionally, the fact that a successful financial sector reform is definitely essential for
implementing an effective macroeconomic stabilization program for the overall economy should
not be overlooked. The role of the Central Bank within this framework and in maintaining
macroeconomic stability is crucial. The independence of the Central Bank is enhanced by the May
2001 amendments to its Law and following the establishment of the BRSA, the Central Bank now
assumes more comprehensive responsibilities in macroprudential supervision of the financial
institutions based on its main target of maintaining "price stability" and hence, "financial stability".
Within this framework, the Central Bank is an essential and a complementary component of the
supervisory and regulatory process and the importance of close cooperation and consensus
amongst all the responsible bodies involved in this process should be a priority for the continued
success of the operation.
HI. THE WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE DURING PREPARATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF FSAL
The World Bank put extensive time, effort and resources to the operation in close cooperation
with GOT, to thoroughly understand the structure and components of the system, main practices
as well as the regulatory and supervisory processes in order to come up with problem areas and
the necessary solutions.
In our opinion, all the parties to the FSAL program has shown a satisfactory performance despite
the tough conditions of two severe crises. At this stage of the operation, the prospects are
promising.
The timing of the assistance was very critical for the success of the financial sector program
within the framework of FSAL. Nevertheless, Turkey did not have immediate access to funds by
the Bank but in the aftermath of two shocks. We believe the total cost of banking restructuring
could have been much less if we had these resources available in time to help avert the risk of
financial crisis before they transform to systemic risks.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/pi-ivate sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
-15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
____________ndlcat6r1Mdtr_i__                     IrkDaist. I-          r Jct ,1' d as  Pb 'Est|mat, i
Not applicable as this is an adjustment
opemrtion.
Output Indicators:
-.''-; InIeatbrIMaix       '    r    !     proJect d In last PSR.e.-. ; .  -. -_tual/Latest Estimate?
Not applicable as this is an adjustment
operatlon.
End of project
-16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in USS million equivalent)
t . .k   S--  ,  !,'  "                          ; 
=to. X,, ,rgoE.,ct,,Co, st'§yComponent-}.a".; ! - US 'EstilmLat  Percitiguf
Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation.
Total Baseline Cost                                 0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs             0.00           0.00   _    _   _
Total Financing Required             0.00           0.00   I
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
. -r~~~t' ~ ~      ;~i...Rrocurementr:Meth d  W7aL½ 
,£.Expe piue.aego                                                       7e, .-,^NC  Utltst
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
-t   ,    -_                  i 2.Procuirenient¶MLsth6o d ..:,.,.t...-
*. Ea, t.iC8~~~~~~~~~.                  -,-NO-l    -;th @ -9 - F<^i5T1
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
- 17-



(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                          0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
7                                   r0
o  .Component;                        sA |                                               I|".   LatX  -9W  *.r
-18 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation
- 19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Appraisal/Negotiation
September 1999 -            I    Program Manager/Lead
December 2000                    Financial Sector Specialist
I    Lead Financial Sector Specialist
2    Banking regulator
I   Bank restructuring Specialist
I    Financial Management
Specialist/Financial Sector
Specialist
2    Insolvency specialist
I   Government Debt Specialist
Supervision
December 2000 -              1   Program Manager/Lead
July 2001                        Financial Sector Specialist
I   Lead Financial Sector Specialist
I   Banking regulator
I    Financial Sector Specialist
ICR
I    Financial Sector Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  1                ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Appraisal/Negotiation                    70.6                       279.5
Supervision                              17.6                        69.9
ICR                                       5.0                        18.0
Total                                    93.2                       367.4
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                        O H  OSU*M      O N  O NA
/Sector Policies                       * H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
L Physical                             OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
L Financial                            OH   OSUOM      ON    *NA
f Institutional Development            0 H  * SU O M   0 N 0 NA
Oi Environmental                       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Private sector development           0 H  * SU O M   0 N 0 NA
Li Public sector management            0 H  O SU O M   0 N * NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           *HSOS OfU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS * S      O U   0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       Ou     0 HU
C Government implementation performance             O HS OS      O U    0 HU
OII Implementation agency performance               O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS       OU   0 HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 23 -






IMAG-ING
Report No.:        24210
Type:     ICR



