                                                                                                                                 87174
                                                                                                                        co~~
                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                        December 21, 2000
                                                                                                                             09:09:43 AM




Statement by Mohamed Kamel Arnr
Date of Meeting: December 21, 2000

                        Turkey: Country Assistance Strategy; Financial Sector
                      Adjustment Loan (FSAL); and Privatization Social Support
                                                              Project

1.      This is an important CAS, especially as the country has recently been embarking on more
determined efforts to achieve sustained economic growth and tackle the long-standing
macroeconomic and social weaknesses. This is taking place after nearly a decade of what the
paper calls the "muddle-through" approach that characterized policy making. The CAS has
rightly sought to focus on reducing the deep-seated economic vulnerability, which has been
exposed few weeks ago by the financial crisis that required substantial external support. On the
social field, there is a long way to go as the country lags far behind many middle- income
countries in terms of human development indicators.

2.     There have been many positive signs in recent economic performance measures and
prospects can be bright. Performance under the previous 1998-2000 CAS has been
encouraging as indicated in the paper and in the interesting and candid statement of Philippe
Peeters/Emin Dedeoglu. The paper, however, also shows that unless reforms are sustained,
prospects can be dim under what it calls the "truncated scenario".

3.      To ensure that Turkey will meet its objectives of improving living standards and
reducing economic vulnerability the CAS rightly focuses on the broad themes of growth,
public sector management, social services, disaster mitigation and improving connectivity
and technological capabilities. In looking at these themes one would attach particular
urgency to disaster mitigation in light of recent unfortunate experiences. Deepening
connectivity and expanding technological capabilities obviously have considerable potential
and I would hope that this item be a standard theme in all CASs.

4.      The benchmarks for judging the success of the CAS have been listed in para. 60 and
seem quite comprehensive. But I am not sure that the task of managing the vulnerabilities of
the financial system comes out clearly in the list. Recent events have again demonstrated the
need for more focus and underscored the pervasive impact on the country's reform program.
Alongside focusing on these broad themes, the CAS sought to exercise selectivity by
focusing on seven areas as (Box 8). However, the list appears to be on the long side, which
demonstrates again what has been witnessed in the cases of many other countries that it does


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                    2



not always make sense to confine Bank role to an excessively narrow scope of activities in
any given country.

5.      An innovative feature of this CAS is the design of investment projects that
complements the adjustment loans. In this respect, we support the proposed FSAL and the
Privatization Social Support Project. The FSAL can play an important role in enhancing the
macroeconomic and banking reform efforts, especially in light of the recent crisis that
showed that the Banking sector lacks the capacity to withstand external shocks. The
Privatization Social Support Project addresses the social dimension of the accelerated
privatization program by extending adequate coverage to workers who would be affected by
privatization and restructuring of SOEs.

6.      We wish the authorities well in tackling the challenges of reform that would enable
Turkey to fulfill its developmental needs. We also thank staff for the good work that went
into the preparation of the CAS and the two projects.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
