                                                                                                                                 87169
                                                                                                                         co~~
                                                                                                                               lEI2s2oo00522J
                                                                                                                        December 21, 2000
                                                                                                                            09:40:49 AM




Statement by Richard H. Kaijuka
Date of Meeting: December 21, 2000

                            Turkey: CAS and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan


         Turkey is now at a crossroads as it prepares itself to join the European Union (EU). It is a
case where there is a clear mismatch between the basic economic fundamentals and the
liberalization policies, particularly the open capital account policy. This has been a recipe for the
fmancial crisis the country is currently confronted with. Notwithstanding its strenuous efforts to
rectify the situation and meet the basic requirements for Turkey's candidacy to join the EU, an
unfmished agenda still remain. Structural reforms in key areas, ameliorating social services,
improving productivity and competitiveness and bringing different policies and regulations in line
with those prevailing in the EU are daunting challenges that need to be addressed with great
perseverance. The stagflation that has set in the Turkish economy for some time is a major force
holding the economy back. The frequent earthquakes further complicate the authorities' task in
putting the economy on the proper track. Stringent and bold measures are needed to break the
vicious circle created by this state of affairs.

          We are comforted by the briefmg made by Mr. Johannes Linn and his team last

Monday on the recent developments in Turkey, particularly on the way the country is handling the
crisis. We agree that addressing the problem requires the collaborative effort of both the Turkish
authorities and the international community; the former with improved macro-economic
management, and deeper reforms and the latter providing fmancial resources and non-lending
services.

        We are pleased with the serious steps the new Government is taking in the context of the
Eighth Five Year Plan for 2001-2005, which puts the objective of reversing the critical imbalances
and correcting the current economic distortions as a top priority. While inflation, currently at 44
percent, has started a downward trend, bringing it down to a manageable level would entail
supporting the recently taken fiscal measures with deep reforms in key sectors and areas,
especially agriculture, the fmancial sector, privatization of public enterprises particularly in the
infrastructure sector, the pension system and the exchange rate regime. While the measures taken
by the Government earlier on in the year have started to bear fruit, some downside effects of the
rapid recovery complicated by high oil prices and the weak Euro have emerged resulting in the
overheating of the economy. We hope the austere fiscal package taken within the context of the

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                    2



FY01 budget will help in arresting the deterioration the economy is currently experiencing.

       On the structural reform front, we welcome the newly introduced reforms. Agriculture is a
drain on the budget and holds back the overall economic growth. Support prices for major crops
and subsidies to agricultural inputs, privatization of state farms and other distortions also need to
be eliminated. The shift in the agricultural policy away from a commodity support system to
providing direct income to the farmers, is a step in the right direction.

        The bringing of the banking regulations to the Basle and EU standards, with appropriate
loan loss provisioning, capital adequacy and foreign exchange exposure, and the setting up of an
independent Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA) is also welcome. The
accompanying Financial Sector Adjustment Loan operation fits well in the Government's strategy
and addresses most of these problems. Therefore, we strongly lend our support to this operation.

        While Turkey has frequently demonstrated its ability to weather fmancial shocks, we
believe that the problem of the high level of the short maturity external debt should be given
special attention as it has been a major source of fmancial risks. The Government's plan to
gradually reduce deposit insurance from the current high level of 100 percent is a proper course to
follow in our opinion. This high level of insurance has been a major incentive for agents in the
fmancial field to engage in risky behavior. Commercial banks should also be encouraged to
diversify their assets through less dependence on government securities and increasing their
lending to the private sector. Corrective actions are also needed to address the issue of connected
banking.

       We find the Bank Group strategy for Turkey as reflected in Section V of the CAS
appropriate. We commend the IFC for its active role in the country, particularly in developing
SMEs, which are critical for resolving Turkey's unemployment problem. We are also pleased to
note MIGA's plan to diversity its activities in the country.

        The Bank's 2001-03 CAS focus on the social services, particularly education, health,
social protection, disaster mitigation and information technology is well in place. The
performance benchmarks in paragraph 60 also look realistic. We have no problem with the size
and associated triggers of the medium-term macro-economic scenarios, the Sustained Reform
Scenario (SRS) and the Transacted Reform Scenario (TRS), the high and base lending scenarios,
respectively.

        Finally, we welcome the Government's new holistic long VISion strategy that aims at
putting an end to the stop-and-go policies pursued in the past and get the economy out of the
criSIS. Ad hoc liquidity injection and withdrawal measures cannot provide lasting solutions.
Speeding up reforms is key for reversing the deteriorating economic situation and calming
investors' sentiments. We would encourage the Bank to, in close collaboration with the Fund,
monitor the situation with the Turkish authorities and provide the needed support.

       We commend the Staff for their excellent work and wish the Turkish authorities all
success in their efforts to address the crisis.


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
