                                                                                                                                 87171
                                 ~vELOpA,
                                                                                                                         CO~lAL,



                           (~)
                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                        December 20, 2000
                                                                                                                             05:03:45 PM




Statement by Abdulrahman Almofadhi
Date of Meeting: December 21, 2000

                        Turkey: Country Assistance Strategy and Financial Sector
                       Adjustment Loan and Privatization Social Support Project

        Let me begin by thanking staff for the briefings, which have placed the documents before
us in the context of an evolving situation. I refer here to Mr. Linn's comments on December 7,
and the more detailed supplementary material made available last Monday afternoon.

        It is to be hoped that the latest crisis has indeed been contained, and the swift expression
of international support is encouraging. Nonetheless, we share the view that the Turkish
authorities have no choice but to proceed with a systematic and sustained implementation of the
agreed reform program, in a changed and in some respects riskier environment. This is not to
deny that considerable progress had been made before the recent crisis.

        In such a challenging environment, international support can assist the government in
achieving these objectives. We are pleased that the Fund and the Bank are playing
well-coordinated roles within their respective mandates and responsibilities. Our remarks today
will focus on some of the structural issues relating to the Bank's areas of interest.

        Before doing so, let me make it clear at the outset that we support the CAS as updated,
and we hope that the actions of the authorities will make it possible to continue in a High Case,
or an Accelerated High Case, mode. If further policy slippages were to occur, and the lending
program reverted to a Base Case, this would signify a critical missed opportunity. In the present
circumstances, we also support the proposed FSAL and the Privatization Social Support Project
that are before us today, and they will, if successfully implemented, help underpin the renewed
reform effort and demonstrate the Bank's strong support.

        Before turning to some of the underlying issues some comments on the recent crisis
would be in order. We think the analysis presented by staff has been the correct one, and the
Bank's advice has certainly been consistent, as Mr. Wolfensohn reminded us at the December 7
briefing. The key precipitating factors appear to have been the failure of the Government to fully
prepare the public for its 2001 program, and the endemic weaknesses in the financial sector,
which have been frequently remarked on in previous discussions at this Board. Indeed, this
Chair, when reviewing the Economic Reform Loan last May, made a point of noting that
weaknesses in the financial sector have had major adverse effects, and that the difficulties in this


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                     2



regard of implementing effective and deep reforms should not be underestimated. Perhaps recent
events have improved the prospects in this context. No doubt the forthcoming Bank paper on the
Political Economy of Reform in Turkey, mentioned in Box 6 of the CAS as being currently
under preparation, will shed some light on the issues involved from an economic rather than a
political perspective.

       We turn now to some more specific comments, which we will mainly limit to three
underlying issues we consider important.

        First, we would like to address the issue of employment. The theme of implementing
reforms for growth and employment generation is rightly at the top of the Government's agenda
as supported by the Bank. We noted from Box 1 in the CAS that a large share of the Turkish
population is already vulnerable to falling into poverty through an event such as a job loss by the
household's principal wage earner. Table 2 of the CAS includes a line with unemployment rate
estimates drawn from the 8th Five Year Plan. The handout we got on Monday updating the
Table did not however update this key indicator, although we were informed that the balance of
macroeconomic risk is likely to shift from overheating to abrupt slowdown. In such a context,
paragraph 66 of the CAS notes that recorded unemployment has in fact declined by one
percentage point since the start of the reform program. Some comments from staff about the
potential for increased unemployment under a slowdown, and its effects on the poverty situation,
would therefore be appreciated. The efforts of the authorities, supported by the Bank, to ensure
adequate funding of social safety nets are however noted in this connection.

        Our second comment relates to the current situation of, and potential for, Small- and
Medium- Enterprises (SMEs). Paragraph 32 of Annex Al of the CAS, dealing with the private
sector strategy, has a useful statement of the envisaged strategy, which seems well based. We
also noted from IFC' s handout at the technical briefing that the Corporation will continue to
support SMEs by providing term-financing through loans to leasing companies and selected
banks. Our question to staff is to what extent these efforts may be made more challenging if
there remains an environment of higher interest rates and lower growth. Some comments on the
likely outcomes would be appreciated. We nonetheless continue to encourage IFC to keep up its
focus on SMEs and supportive business infrastructure, especially in the less-developed regions
of the country. Of course, the broader emphasis of IFC on developing mortgage finance and
long-term contractual savings obligations, and development of venture capital and private equity
funds will also be essential in helping sustain investor confidence.

        Our third and final comment is to place the recent crisis in the context of the longer-term
efforts the Bank will be making to help strengthen social service delivery, and especially to
improve the quality of education. Given the intention in the CAS to accelerate connectivity and
te~hnological capabilities, the need to upgrade the delivery of educational services across the
board assumes added priority. It is encouraging to read in paragraph 57 of the CAS that
computer literacy and connectivity are improving rapidly, but the country has much catching up
to do in this area to reach even the average for OECD countries. Looking at the upcoming
generations, the Bank support for the authorities in the comprehensive reforms in basic
education can be considered as an investment that will have a considerable future payoff.



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                    3



        In conclusion, we have some very selective comments on some other important topics.
We agree that the strengthened legislative, regulatory, and supervision infrastructure for banks
being supported under the FSAL will be critical in addressing the long-standing weakness in this
sector. Similarly, while further progress on the privatization front is also essential, the
Privatization Social Support Project can play a very useful role in strengthening mechanisms for
groups affected by the hopefully accelerated privatization process under the reform program.
Finally, given the high seismic risk in Turkey, as events a year or so ago demonstrated, the
economy remains vulnerable to natural disasters, and some flexibility must be allowed to
accommodate a response to them. The discussion in paragraph 55 of the CAS is reassuring in
this regard concerning a more pro-active approach to building up risk mitigation capacity.

        Having made these comments, Mr. Chairmen, we commend the staff for the work that
has gone into preparation for today's discussion, and for their sustained dialogue with the
Turkish authorities. We wish the authorities and their partners well in managing the current
risks and above all in keeping up the momentum of the reform programs so as to enable the
economy to capture its full developmental potential in the decades ahead.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
