                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00003335



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-43660)



                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.8 MILLION
                        (US$ 15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                     PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA

                                      FOR A

            LAND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                  March 12, 2015




Agriculture Global Practice
Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective March 12, 2015)

                   Currency Unit = Boliviano (BOB)
                       1.00 BOB = US$ 0.14
                       1.00 SDR = US$ 1.417330

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 – December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BDP       Banco de Desarrollo Productivo (Productive Development Bank)
BP        Bank Procedure
CODAL     Consejo de Desarrollo Agrario Local (Local Rural Development
          Council)
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ENPV      Economic Net Present Value
FAO-TCI   United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperation
          Program
FIRR      Financial Internal Rate of Return
FNVP      Financial Net Present Value
GOB       Government of Bolivia
IFI       Intermediary Financial Institution
INRA      Instituto Nacional de la Reforma Agraria (National Land Reform
          Institute)
IP        Implementation Plan
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
MAS       Movement for Socialism
MDRAMA    Ministerio de Desarrollo Rural, Agricultura y Medio Ambiente
          (Ministry of Rural Development, Agriculture and Environment)
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MDRyT     Ministerio de Desarrollo Rural y Tierras (Ministry of Rural
          Development and Lands)
MTR       Mid Term Review
NDP       National Development Plan
NIT       National Tax Identification Number
NPV       Net Present Value
OP        Operational Policy
PA        Producers Association
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
PDO       Project Development Objective
PPA   Project Preparation Advance
TA    Technical Assistance
TC    Tierra Comunitaria (Communal Land)
TCO   Tierra Comunitario de Origen (Indigenous Peoples’ Territory)


      Regional Vice President:   Jorge Familiar
            Country Director:    Alberto Rodriguez
             Sector Manager:     Laurent Msellati
        Project Team Leader:     Enrique Pantoja
           ICR Team Leader:      Enrique Pantoja
                                             BOLIVIA
                             Land for Agricultural Development Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 37
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 44
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 46
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 49
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 50
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 51
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 52

   MAP IBRD 41480
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Bolivia Land for
Country:                Bolivia                 Project Name:             Agricultural
                                                                          Development Project.
Project ID:             P087925                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-43660
ICR Date:               03/12/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PLURINATIONAL
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          STATE OF BOLIVIA
Original Total
                        XDR 9.80M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 9.56M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 9.80M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Rural Development and Lands
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/08/2004     Effectiveness:            03/13/2009         03/13/2009
Appraisal:            04/11/2005     Restructuring(s):                            04/06/2010
Approval:             10/30/2007     Mid-term Review:          10/10/2011         02/06/2012
                                     Closing:                  06/29/2012         09/15/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
                                                        QAG Assessments (if
   Implementation Performance            Indicators                         Rating
                                                               any)
    Potential Problem Project at any time: Yes                               Quality at Entry:            None
                                                                             Quality of
    Problem Project at any time:                Yes                                                       None
                                                                             Supervision:
    DO rating before Closing:                   Mod. Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
    General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                                   80                    85
    Sub-national government administration                                             20                    15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
    Indigenous peoples                                                                 14                   50
    Land administration and management                                                 29                   15
    Rural markets                                                                      29                   35
    Social safety nets                                                                 28                    0

E. Bank Staff
           Positions                            At ICR                                  At Approval
    Vice President:             Jorge Familiar                           Pamela Cox
    Country Director:           Alberto Rodriguez                        Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
    Practice Manager:           Laurent Msellati                         Ethel Sennhauser
    Project Team Leader:        Enrique Pantoja                          Malcolm Childress
    ICR Team Leader:            Enrique Pantoja
    ICR Primary Author:         Fernando Galeana

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Development Credit Agreement)
The PDOs are (a) to establish an alternative decentralized beneficiary-driven land
distribution mechanism for organized landless or poor farmers; and (b) to support
productive investments thereon to allow increased and more sustainable livelihoods for
such beneficiaries.1


1 The wording of the PDO in the PAD is slightly different from the DCA’s version. The PDO in the PAD is “to establish
a decentralized beneficiary-driven land distribution mechanism that allows organized landless or poor farmers to acquire
suitable agricultural lands and implement investment subprojects which puts them in a sustainable higher-income,
livelihood.” The PDO from the DCA was ratified in the first project restructuring.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                          Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                           Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                            Revised Target
                                              approval                           Completion or
                                                                 Values
                                            documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1:    Direct project beneficiaries (new indicator added at restructuring)
Value
(Quantitative or             0                   N/A               11,000             11,488
Qualitative)
Date achieved          07-Dec-2007                              24-Jan-2013        15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target surpassed (104%). Estimate based on original assumption of 10
(Incl. % of      households (HHs) per productive association (PA), and an average of 5 people
achievement) per HH.
Indicator 2:     At least 20% increase in beneficiary family income
Value
(Quantitative or             0                   50%                20%                39%
Qualitative)
Date achieved          07-Dec-2007           07-Dec-2007        24-Jan-2013        15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target surpassed (195%). Estimate based on a sample of 83 PAs.
(Incl. % of
achievement)
                 Local level decision-making and monitoring entities established and functioning
Indicator 3:
                 in 5 selected municipalities
Value
(Quantitative or             0                     3                 5                  5
Qualitative)
Date achieved          07-Dec-2007           07-Dec-2007        24-Jan-2013        15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target achieved (100%). The number of Local Development Committees
(Incl. % of      (CODALs) was increased to reflect expansion of the Project area into two
achievement) additional municipalities.
                 At least 15% increase in value of productive assets of beneficiary families(new
Indicator 4:
                 indicator added at restructuring)
                                                                               15% for agricultural
Value
                                                                                 investments and
(Quantitative or             0                   N/A                15%
                                                                                10% for livestock
Qualitative)
                                                                                   investments
Date achieved          24-Jan-2013                              24-Jan-2013        15-Sep-2014
                 Target achieved (100%) for agricultural investment and partially achieved
Comments         (67%) for livestock investments. Estimates based on a sample of 83 PAs. For
(Incl. % of      agricultural investments, family assets increased by US$122 or a 15 percent
achievement) increase compared to baseline. For livestock investments, family assets increased
                 by US$ 156 or 10 percent increase compared to baseline.
                 At least 10% of Productive Associations (PAs) have women in their Boards (new
Indicator 5:
                 indicator added at restructuring)
Value
(Quantitative or             0                  N/A                 10%               74%
Qualitative)
Date achieved          24-Jan-2013                             24-Jan-2013        15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target surpassed (743%).
(Incl. % of
achievement)
Indicator 6:     Female beneficiaries (new indicator added at restructuring)
Value
(Quantitative or             0                  N/A                5,610             5,681
Qualitative)
Date achieved          24-Jan-2013                             24-Jan-2013        15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target achieved (101%).
(Incl. % of
achievement)
                 Monitoring system to assess the net benefits of increased ag. Production
Indicator        established (dropped and replaced at restructuring by intermediate outcome
                 indicator 8)
Value
(Quantitative or 0                      N/A                  N/A               N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved         07-Dec-2007
Comments
(Incl. % of
achievement)
                 120 farms selected and acquired by PAs via new mechanism (dropped at
Indicator
                 restructuring)
Value
(Quantitative or 0                      N/A                  N/A               N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved         07-Dec-2007
Comments
(Incl. % of
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                              Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised Target
                                                approval                            Completion or
                                                                     Values
                                               documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1:       At least 2,200 beneficiary families select and acquire their farms
Value
(Quantitative or             0                   2,200                                2,891
Qualitative)
Date achieved          07-Dec-2007           07-Dec-2007                          15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target surpassed (131%). These families are organized under PAs.
(Incl. % of
achievement)
Indicator 2:     At least 190 Productive Associations (PAs) established under the Project
Value
(Quantitative or            0                     120                190               237
Qualitative)
Date achieved         07-Dec-2007           07-Dec-2007          24-Jan-2013       15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target surpassed (125%).
(Incl. % of
achievement)
Indicator 3:     At least 115,000 hectares of land are accessed by Productive Associations (PAs)
Value
(Quantitative or            0                  100,000             115,000           151,579
Qualitative)
Date achieved         07-Dec-2007           07-Dec-2007          24-Jan-2013       15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target surpassed (132%).
(Incl. % of
achievement)
                 At least 70% of the productive sub-projects comply satisfactorily with agreed
Indicator 4:
                 implementation plans
Value
(Quantitative or           0%                                        70%               85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved         24-Jan-2013                                24-Jan-2013       15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target surpassed (121%).
(Incl. % of
achievement)
Indicator 5:     At least 70% of land accessed by PAs are put under productive use
Value
(Quantitative or           0%                                        70%               59%
Qualitative)
Date achieved         24-Jan-2013                                24-Jan-2013       15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target partially achieved (84%). Indicator is based on average area put under
(Incl. % of      productive use by year of project implementation.
achievement)
                 At least 80% of PAs are satisfied with the technical assistance provided by the
Indicator 6:
                 Project
Value
(Quantitative or           0%                                        80%               73%
Qualitative)
Date achieved         24-Jan-2013                                24-Jan-2013       15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target partially achieved (91%). Estimate based on a survey of 58
(Incl. % of      respondents.
achievement)
Indicator 7:     At least 20% of participants in training sessions are women
Value
(Quantitative or            0%                                      20%               38%
Qualitative)
Date achieved          24-Jan-2013                              24-Jan-2013       15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target surpassed (195%).
(Incl. % of
achievement)
                 Project M&E system established and updated periodically, and Mid-term and
Indicator 8:
                 final evaluation completed
Value
(Quantitative or             0                                       3                 3
Qualitative)
Date achieved          24-Jan-2013                              24-Jan-2013       15-Sep-2014
Comments         Target achieved (100%).
(Incl. % of
achievement)
                 At least US$8.0 million in total value of productive investments (Dropped at
Indicator
                 restructuring)
Value
(Quantitative or 0                       N/A                   N/A            N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07-Dec-2007
Comments
(Incl. % of
achievement)
                 At least 90% of productive investment subprojects are completed (dropped and
Indicator
                 replaced at restructuring by intermediate outcome indicator 4)
Value
(Quantitative or 0                    N/A                  N/A                N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07-Dec-2007
Comments
(Incl. % of
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
 No.                            DO                         IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     12/27/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     04/30/2008         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        0.00
                            Moderately              Moderately
  3     08/13/2008                                                                      0.00
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately              Moderately
  4     12/14/2008                                                                      0.00
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  5     04/17/2009     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  0.00
                         Moderately                Moderately
  6   11/17/2009                                                                 2.83
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
  7   02/06/2010                                                                 3.09
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
  8   05/28/2010    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            3.60
                         Moderately                Moderately
  9   02/13/2011                                                                 3.90
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 10   06/29/2011    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           4.86
 11   12/21/2011    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           5.91
 12   06/29/2012    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           7.46
 13   12/14/2012    Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                  9.41
 14   06/22/2013    Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                 10.73
 15   10/21/2013    Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                 11.57
 16   03/29/2014    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory          12.85
 17   09/27/2014    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory          14.50


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Changes include: (1)
                                                     modification of Land Credit
                                                     Facility; (2) inclusion of three
 04/06/2010       No      MS    MS            3.09
                                                     additional mechanisms for land
                                                     access; and (3) a minor
                                                     reallocation of Credit proceeds.
                                                     Extension of the closing date
 06/14/2012       No      MS    MS            7.46   from June 29, 2012 to March
                                                     31, 2014.
                                                     Key changes include: (1)
                                                     reformulation of the Results
                                                     Matrix; (b) establishment of a
                                                     new disbursement category to
                                                     make explicit the expenditures
                                                     for consultant services, training
                                                     and operating costs for
 01/24/2013       No      MS      S           9.41   Component 2 (productive
                                                     investments); and (3)
                                                     reallocation of Credit proceeds
                                                     to reflect the evolution of the
                                                     Project, which resulted in an
                                                     increased emphasis on the land
                                                     use rights mechanism and the
                                                     need of additional field staff for
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     implementation, technical
                                                     assistance and for the
                                                     communication strategy.
                                                     Extension of the closing date
 11/29/2013       No      MS      S          11.57   from March 31 to June 15,
                                                     2014.
                                                     Extension of the closing date
 05/23/2014       No      MS    MS           12.85   from June 15 to September 15,
                                                     2014.


I. Disbursement Profile
The Bolivia Land for Agricultural Development Project (‘the Project’) was conceived as a
pilot effort focused on selected municipalities of the Department of Santa Cruz, while being
the last land access project financed by the Bank in Latin America. The Project allowed
successful implementation of an innovative mechanism to gain access to land under
customary land tenure arrangements that has the potential for countrywide replication. It
enabled poor farmers, organized in Productive Associations (PAs), to benefit from the right
to land that they already had as members of Indigenous Peoples’ Territories (TCOs) and
Communal Lands (TCs) but could not enjoy due to a lack of productive assets. By
providing matching grants and technical assistance (TA) to PAs to carry out investment
sub-projects, the Project contributed a proven mechanism to consolidate land rights and
gain access to agricultural land. Project preparation and implementation occurred within a
period of significant political and social transformation for Bolivia. During this crucial
historical moment, the Project generated valuable lessons about different options for
improving land access. The key lesson was to think beyond the original emphasis on the
‘willing seller-willing buyer’ model to incorporate usufruct rights in TCOs and TCs. As a
result, and with increased Government commitment, the Project exceeded most of its key
performance indicators. Implementation delays, however, tightened the schedule for the
establishment of PAs and execution of their investment sub-projects. Additional TA would
have likely improved the sustainability of the new investments. By Project closing, there
were no specific arrangements to continue the mechanism in TCOs and TCs. The Project
generated other valuable lessons about working with indigenous peoples, monitoring and
evaluation (M&E), and piloting land access mechanisms.

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      Context and Sector Background. Lack of access to agricultural land is a long-
standing historical problem in Bolivia with negative consequences for rural poverty and
development. Although addressed through expropriation and colonization programs since
the 1953 Agrarian Reform Act, landlessness continued to increase during the 1960s-1990s.
At the time of appraisal, the 1996 agrarian reform law (Law No. 1715) relied on the
allocation of public land, either for free or for a fee, and through planned settlements on
lands identified during the land title regularization process. These traditional mechanisms
were considered bureaucratic, slow, and unable to satisfy the demand for land. Between
1996 and 2005, agrarian reform moved at a slow pace with only 9.3 out of 109 million
hectares of available land titled. Meanwhile, the concentration of underutilized private
lands was on the rise in the eastern lowlands, particularly in the Department of Santa Cruz.

2.      Country Context. During the 2000s, Bolivia experienced a period of political
instability and regional tensions that made project preparation, and its initial
implementation, challenging. The Project was formally appraised in April 2005 and
negotiated the following May. However, political events in the country affected the course
of the Project. President Carlos Mesa formally resigned in June 2005 and Eduardo
Rodriguez Veltze assumed office as interim president. Supported by a broad coalition of
indigenous and peasant movements, Evo Morales’ Movement for Socialism (MAS) won
the elections in December. President Morales assumed office in January 2006 and launched



                                             1
a reform that included major modifications to the Constitution, a stronger role of the state
in the economy, and the launching of various social programs. During this period, regional
tensions between the eastern and western regions heightened. An autonomy referendum
for the Department of Santa Cruz was held in May 2008, but it was declared
unconstitutional by the National Electoral Court. As per Bolivian law, at the time of
appraisal, it was established under the Project that a credit line for land acquisition would
be provided through the Productive Development Bank (BDP), a second-tier bank. Under
these arrangements, BDP would act as trustee for credit funds that would then be on-lent
to farmers’ groups via commercial intermediary financial institutions (IFIs). Bolivian law
changed in 2008 making BDP’s role redundant by allowing the provision of credit directly
through first-tier commercial IFIs.

3.      Government Strategy. The administration of President Morales made agrarian
reform one of the central policy issues. Through the newly created Ministry of Rural
Development and Lands (MDRyT), the Government of Bolivia (GOB) prepared a new
policy framework aimed at improving equity in the distribution and access to agricultural
land. A new law (Law No. 3545, November 2006) targeted indigenous and peasant
communities as the sole beneficiaries of agrarian reform. The policy framework promoted
access to land through the establishment of new settlements in public lands and the
consolidation of the rights of TCOs and TCs. The Project supported the implementation of
this policy framework by piloting a land access mechanism in TCOs and TCs. This
mechanism was initially identified during the implementation of the Project Preparation
Advance (PPA). The PPA Agreement was originally signed in April 2005 and amended in
May 2008 in order to pilot another three additional mechanisms for land access.

4.      Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank was uniquely positioned to support
Bolivia in launching a participatory, decentralized complementary mechanism for land
access and productive investments by poor farmers. During the 1990s, the Bank supported
land policy reform in Bolivia with technical assistance and policy dialogue and the
implementation of the 1996 agrarian reform law through the Land Administration Project.2
In addition to its work in Bolivia, the Bank had significant experience supporting
innovative land access mechanisms in other countries in the region, including Brazil,
Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras. The Project supported the Interim Strategy Note goal
of fostering jobs through growth in rural areas.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
5.      As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the Project Development
Objectives (PDOs) are (a) to establish an alternative decentralized beneficiary-driven land
distribution mechanism for organized landless or poor farmers; and (b) to support




2
  The National Land Administration Project (P006197) was approved by the Board in June 1995, became
effective in September 1995, and closed on June 2005 after several extensions and additional financing. The
total cost of the project was US$ 20.4 million.


                                                    2
productive investments thereon to allow increased and more sustainable livelihoods for
such beneficiaries.3

6.    The original key indicators were:
o Establishment of a decentralized, beneficiary-driven land access mechanism;
o 50 percent increase in family incomes of participating families;
o 120 farms selected and acquired by productive associations (PA) via new mechanisms;
o Local level decision-making and monitoring entities established and functioning in 3
  selected municipalities;
o Monitoring system to assess the net economic benefits of increased agricultural
  production established.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
7.       The original PDO was maintained, but the Results Matrix was reformulated in a
Level 2 Restructuring in January 2013 based on the assessment of the Mid-Term Review
(MTR) and the addition of two new municipalities. These adjustments reflect both an
adaptive restructuring to maintain consistency with the Project’s increased focus on TCOs
and TCs as well as methodological improvements for measuring outcomes. The indicators
for farm acquisition and establishment of an economic monitoring system were dropped.
Also, the number of local decision-making and monitoring entities was increased from 3
to 5 and the number of PAs was increased from 120 to 190, which corresponded to the
expansion of the Project area to the municipalities of Concepcion and San Ignacio de
Velasco. The target of increase in family income was reduced from 50 to 20 percent and a
new indicator was added to measure the change on the value of productive assets with a
target of at least 15 percent increase. New indicators were added to measure gender-
differentiated impacts: the percent of PAs with women in their boards, with a target of at
least 10 percent, and number of female beneficiaries (core indicator). A table describing
all the changes to the Results Framework is included in Annex 2.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
8.       The primary target group was 2,200 families of organized landless or poor farmers
that would gain access to land through a decentralized mechanism. Located in five
municipalities with precarious access to basic services in the Department of Santa Cruz,
most of these families were considered to be poor or very poor and approximately 75
percent indigenous. These farmers worked as permanent or seasonal workers in agro-
industry, produced in sharecropping modalities, or owned parcels too small to sustain a
livelihood. Targeting of beneficiaries also depended on land market conditions that would
facilitate access to underutilized agricultural land.


3
 The wording of the PDO included in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) is slightly different from the
version included in the DCA. The PDO in the PAD is “to establish a decentralized beneficiary-driven land
distribution mechanism that allows organized landless or poor farmers to acquire suitable agricultural lands
and implement investment subprojects which puts them in a sustainable higher-income, livelihood.” The
PDO from the DCA was ratified in a 2010 Restructuring Paper.


                                                     3
1.5 Original Components
9.      The Project had three components:
10.     Component 1 - Land Acquisition (US$4.86 million of Credit funds at appraisal):
This component was to provide loans to PAs for the purchasing of agricultural land. The
Project intended to establish a Land Credit Facility managed by BDP and executed by local
IFIs. The acquired land would serve as collateral for the loan. Only titled, private land was
eligible for purchase. The land acquisition mechanism was not operationalized due to the
lack of eligible land at affordable prices, and the Land Credit Facility could not be
established.

11.     Component 2 - Productive Investments (US$7.86 million of Credit funds at
appraisal): This component provided matching grants and TA to PAs for carrying out
investment sub-projects. The matching grants covered investments in infrastructure and
productive assets. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) launched a communication
campaign to inform potential beneficiaries about the Project, and helped organize them in
PAs. The PA had to prepare a preliminary investment plan. The PCU reviewed the
proposals to ensure basic compliance with the Project’s guidelines and procedures. The
PCU then submitted the proposal to a local level decision-making body, the Council for
Local Agrarian Development (CODALs), for approval. The CODALs were established by
the Project in each of the participating municipalities and were composed of members from
the municipality, traditional land administration authorities, producers’ associations,
NGOs, and academia.

12.     Component 3 – Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation (US$1.75
million of Credit funds at appraisal). A PCU based in the city of Santa Cruz was in charge
of coordination, administration, financial management, and M&E. Regional technical
units assisted with monitoring and provision of TA.

1.6 Revised Components
13.    The initial experience of the PPA showed that land market conditions were not
conducive for achieving the PDOs exclusively through the land acquisition mechanism.
Accordingly, Component 1 was revised in the Project’s first restructuring in April 2010 to
include three additional land access mechanisms:

o Leasing agreements (arrendamiento): Under this mechanism, a landowner agreed to
  temporarily transfer the usufruct for a specific time period in exchange of payment. In
  practice, PAs signed one-year leases with landowners. The Project covered the cost of
  lease payments.
o Share-cropping agreements (aparceria comunal): Under this mechanism, the
  landowner granted use of the land to a PA in exchange of a percentage of the equity
  and a negotiated amount of the production obtained from the land. Share-cropping
  agreements were also for one year.
o Land use rights (derechos de uso de suelo): This mechanism was only available for
  members of TCOs and TCs. According to the 1996 agrarian reform law, land held
  under TCOs and TCs is collective property. Traditional authorities (capitanes)
  determine land use and allocation based on customary practices. PAs received land use



                                             4
   rights for carrying out investment sub-projects, which was equivalent to a long-term
   lease contract. These leases were free and for an indeterminate time period. The
   condition for holding the lease was the continuation of the investment sub-project.

14.     In addition, the 2010 restructuring modified the two-tier design of the Land Credit
Facility to allow first-tier IFIs to provide credit directly to PAs. This modification was in
response to changes in the country’s financial regulatory framework.

1.7 Other significant changes
15.      2010 Restructuring. As mentioned, the Project had a Level-2 restructuring
approved in May 2010. This restructuring included the following changes: (1) modification
to the two-tier design of the Land Credit Facility, by eliminating the financial
intermediation of the BDP and introducing the direct provision of the credit line through
first-tier commercial banks or regulated non-bank IFIs; (2) inclusion of three additional
mechanisms for land access; and (3) a minor reallocation of Credit proceeds to reflect the
refinancing of the PPA.

16.    Expansion of Project area. The GOB proposed to expand the area of coverage to
increase Project impact. The PCU prepared social, economic and environmental studies in
six municipalities. The analysis recommended expanding the Project to the municipalities
of Concepcion and San Ignacio de Velasco in the Chiquitania region. This decision was
discussed during the MTR and the Bank gave its no-objection in August 2012.

17.     2013 Restructuring. The Project had a Level 2 restructuring in January 2013 that
introduced the following changes: (1) reformulation of the Results Matrix to better reflect
and quantify the targets of the Project as discussed in Section 1.2; (b) establishment of a
new disbursement category to make explicit the expenditures for consultant services,
training and operating costs for Component 2 (productive investments); and (3)
reallocation of Credit proceeds to reflect the evolution of the Project, which resulted in an
increased emphasis on the land use rights mechanism and the need of additional field staff
for implementation, technical assistance and for the communication strategy.

18.     Extension of Closing Date. The Project had three extensions to the closing date
for a total of 2.5 years of additional implementation. The Project was approved by the
World Bank’s Board in October 2007, but it only became effective in March 2009. One
factor that delayed effectiveness was the legal change in financial regulations that affected
the Project’s two-tier structure for the Land Credit Facility. The DCA had established as
one of the conditions of effectiveness the signing of an Administrative Agreement with
BDP. Since the GOB could no longer meet this condition, the Bank agreed to a waiver.
After the Credit became effective, an amendment to the DCA was required. However, the
processing of the amendment took several months due to delays by the Bank and the
Borrower. These initial delays affected the implementation schedule. The first extension
was approved in May 2012 after the MTR confirmed that the PDO continued to be relevant
and achievable. The closing date was extended from June 29, 2012 to March 31, 2014. This
extension provided PAs with sufficient time to finalize their investments, complete
productive cycles, and receive follow-up, especially in the new municipalities. Two



                                             5
additional three-month extensions were approved in November 2013 and May 2014
bringing the actual closing date to September 15, 2014. The third extension required
Regional Vice President Approval since the proposed date was 2.5 years from the original
closing date. Overall, these extensions were requested to improve the conditions of
sustainability of the PAs and complete the final evaluation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
19.     Soundness of Background Analysis. Project design was based on a thorough
analysis of other Bank-financed ‘willing seller-willing buyer’ projects in Brazil, Honduras,
Guatemala, and Mexico. Based on a growing body of knowledge, project design introduced
a Land Credit Facility to provide loans for land acquisition accompanied by intensive TA
and matching grants. A land market study was prepared in 2004 to collect data on land
sales in the Department of Santa Cruz and inform on financial parameters for land
acquisition under the Land Credit Facility. In retrospect, this study failed to account for
significant factors affecting the supply of agricultural land, such as the legal restriction
preventing the transfer of parcels under 50 ha and the stark segmentation of the land market
with few parcels available in the 50 to 100 ha range. In addition, a follow-up 2012 analysis
suggested that the original study undervalued land prices. A financial and economic
analysis informed on the viability of investment sub-projects and loan repayment. Social
and environmental studies informed the selection of Project area, characteristics of
beneficiaries, social communication, and procedures for the approval and monitoring of
investment sub-projects.

20.     Redistribution through land markets. The Project was designed to address the
inter-related issues of land access and agricultural productivity. When the GOB submitted
the original request to the Bank for project preparation in 2002, the aim was to facilitate a
‘willing seller-willing buyer’ model. There was concern that, on its own, traditional land
reform would not deliver good quality agricultural land to the poor in a fast and cost-
effective manner. The National Land Reform Institute (INRA) had only identified 30,000
ha of public lands suitable for distribution, and much of it was located in remote, high-cost
areas. Furthermore, the lack of progress in reverting ill-acquired lands and the virtually
stagnant settlement policy (five settlements in 8 years) had led to increased frustration by
indigenous and peasant groups.

21.    Geographical targeting. In its original request, the GOB requested developing a
land access pilot in the Department of Santa Cruz, where resolution to land conflicts was
considered to be of the highest priority. This region was experiencing increased land
inequality as a result of rapid growth in agro-industrial and livestock production. There
were thought to be significant areas of good agricultural land, at an affordable price, that
were underutilized as owners preferred to expand the agricultural frontier or held land
speculatively. This setting was considered to be an opportunity to benefit indigenous and
peasant groups with access to high quality agricultural land. In hindsight, it is questionable
how feasible would the land acquisition mechanism be in the agro-industrial areas of the
Department. In addition, the selection of the Project area was controversial due to the



                                              6
difficult relationship between the central government and regional groups in the
Department of Santa Cruz.

22.     Evolving policy environment and pilot nature. The 2006 policy on agrarian
reform advocated the free provision of public land to indigenous and peasant communities.
However, the analysis carried out during project preparation indicated that this approach
would require significant lead time, while not addressing the needs of all landless and
peasant groups, particularly the need for land access in locations near existing settlements
and public infrastructure as well as the need for an integrated package for productive
investments. The Project was designed as a pilot precisely to test the land acquisition
mechanism as part of a menu of options. The pilot emphasized the generation of learning
and demonstration effects to solve the problem of land access and productive potential.
Since only titled land could be acquired, no funds for land regularization activities were
allocated under the Project. The pilot ultimately showed that the land acquisition
mechanism was not feasible, but this in itself is a valuable lesson.

23.     Emphasis on beneficiary-driven, decentralized process. The Project was
designed with attention to have a beneficiary-driven, decentralized process that was
conducive to building the productive capacity of the beneficiaries. During preparation,
INRA’s participation as implementing agency was rejected due to its poor-track record and
lack of expertise in investment sub-projects. In hindsight, this decision was adequate
because INRA’s institutional mandate does not necessarily cover the distribution of private
lands and the promotion of investment sub-projects is outside of its functional
competencies. Instead, the Vice-Ministry of Land, as part of the then Ministry of Rural
Development, Agriculture, and the Environment (MDRAMA), was made responsible for
project implementation. The PCU based in Santa Cruz was in charge of managing the
Project with the assistance of CODALs for the evaluation of sub-projects and social
monitoring.

24.     Risk Assessment. Overall Project Risk was assessed as substantial at appraisal.
This rating was appropriate and reflected the complexity of addressing a structural issue as
well as the controversial aspects that emerged from a politicized environment. The Project
successfully mitigated the opposition posed by proponents of traditional reform by
fostering consultation and integrating TCOs and TCs into its land access mechanisms. Risk
assessment recognized that the Project would only address one dimension of the land tenure
situation in Bolivia, which was the redistribution of land already in the private domain.
During the implementation period, the GOB pursued a parallel effort to regularize and
redistribute land. By excluding these activities from the Project, there was a greater chance
to pilot innovative land access mechanisms and minimize reputational risk. The risks
specific to the land acquisition mechanism did not materialize, such as the risk of loan
default and favoring the wealthy, since the mechanism was not implemented. One risk
identified was that the demand for land could be either too little or too great. Project
preparation, however, did not consider the supply of land as a risk. Finally, the risk
assessment warned about the inter-regional tensions, although it was difficult to propose
mitigation measures.




                                             7
2.2 Implementation
25.     Implementation improved during the course of the Project’ life. Between 2005 and
2009, the Project used PPA funding to start piloting the land acquisition mechanism. The
PPA for US$ 1.5 million was signed in April 2005 and became effective in June 2005.
However, due to the political climate, activities did not start until November 2006. There
were further delays caused by the processing of the Supreme Decree to authorize the
transfer of funds to beneficiaries. Once the PCU was ready to start operations they realized
that they could not find suitable land for purchase. As a result, the PPA Agreement was
amended in May 2008 allowing the PCU to pilot the alternative mechanisms of land
leasing, sharecropping, and land use rights. The Credit became effective in 2009. The
Project had to be immediately restructured to adjust to the new legal changes to the
financial regulatory framework and incorporate the other three mechanisms. However,
delays in the processing of the first restructuring, and subsequent approval of the required
Supreme Decree virtually stalled Project operations during 2010. During this period, there
was no approval of new investment sub-projects. Between 2011 and 2014, the Project re-
concentrated activities on TCOs and TCs and implementation progress improved
significantly. The Project benefitted from a strong political commitment to agrarian reform,
the substantial progress achieved on the legal recognition of communal property, and
flexibility in adapting to an appropriate model for the provision of TA. Project
implementation, however, was negatively affected by the initial lack of government
ownership, an increase in land values, and conditions in the financial sector.

26.    Several factors contributed to successful implementation:

27.     Government commitment to social inclusion and poverty reduction. Overall, the
GOB has shown a strong commitment to the goals of eradicating extreme poverty, sharing
prosperity along the concept of vivir bien (living well), and empowering indigenous
peoples. The 2006 National Development Plan (NDP) captured an ambitious policy agenda
to transform the country. Agrarian reform played a central role in the policy scheme for an
agrarian revolution. A new law was approved (Law No. 3545) to reinvigorate agrarian
reform. This policy environment raised the profile of the Project.

28.     Progress made in recognizing land rights in TCOs and TCs. Bolivia has made high-
level commitments, through its constitution and international agreements (such as the
International Labor Organization Convention 169), to indigenous rights and communal
property. The 1996 agrarian reform law defines the procedures for the legal recognition of
communal property to indigenous people in the form of TCOs and peasant communities in
the form of TCs. Between 1996 and 2005, INRA distributed over 6 million hectares of land
to TCOs. This was the most far-reaching of the distribution efforts under the 1996 agrarian
reform law. This legal recognition of communal land tenure provided an opportunity to
offer a land access option that is fully aligned with customary rights and the rule of law.

29.    Adaptation of Technical Assistance to meet the needs of PAs. The first generation
of models for investment subprojects was based on complex designs that incorporated
multiple production lines. However, this approach required a complex mix of TA and
monitoring support, which was not efficient for Project implementation. In 2009, this



                                             8
approach was reoriented to favor specialized models based on investments adapted to local
conditions and good potential for commercialization. Also, the original modality for TA
provision required beneficiaries to directly select and hire these services, but this approach
did not work because of the limited supply of service providers. In response, the PCU
helped organize a fee-based firm that operated within its structure to provide the TA. The
firm had offices in each of the municipalities and were staffed by technicians specialized
in the type of sub-projects in the area and social promoters who spoke indigenous
languages. This arrangement worked relative well, but created confusion between the
services that the PCU offered for free and those offered by the firm that required payment
by the PAs. This modality also increased the PCU’s operational costs. After assessing this
situation, it was agreed to increase the technical capacity of the PCU and its regional offices
to provide TA in a more integrated way.

30.   Several factors – some outside and some within the control of government and
implementing agency – adversely affected the Project:

31.     Initial lack of government ownership. The decentralized nature of project
management affected government ownership. As mentioned, the Project was prepared by
a previous administration that leaned more towards market-based policies. In addition, the
location of the PCU in the City of Santa Cruz left the Project relatively isolated from the
MDRyT and the Vice-Ministry of Lands based in La Paz during the early period of
implementation. Following the effectiveness of the legal amendment of 2010, the
MDRyT’s ownership of the Project was strengthened resulting in enhanced support for
project implementation.

32.      Increase in land values. The land acquisition mechanism envisioned in project
design was not implemented. Although an ex-ante land market study was conducted during
project preparation, some important characteristics were not considered. There were
imperfections that inhibited the functioning of land markets: many properties lacked legal
title since the land regularization process slowed down; the agrarian legislation prohibited
the sale or collaterization of parcels smaller than 50 hectares; large landowners invested in
agricultural land for speculation; and some landowners were reluctant to sell through the
formal market, seemingly motivated by tax and other privacy issues. The main market for
agricultural land was for estates larger than 400 ha, which were too large for the PAs. These
conditions contributed to a limited supply of land available for acquisition through the
Project. Furthermore, the agricultural commodity boom in 2005-2008 significantly
increased land values. A study financed by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Cooperation Program (FAO-TCI) in 2012 estimated that since appraisal land prices had
increased an average of 300 percent in the three municipalities initially covered by the
Project. This study also determined that the prices included in the ex-ante land market study
were below the market rate for 2004. This meant that the loan amounts established for land
acquisition under the Project were undervalued. Knowledge about the limited supply of
eligible land and high land values informed the GOB decision not to continue pursuing the
land acquisition mechanism.




                                              9
33.      Problems with establishing the Credit Line Facility. In parallel to the problems
described above, the Project was unable to establish the revolving credit line for the land
acquisition mechanism. Project design included the provision of capital to establish a credit
line for land acquisition because private financial institutions in the region were unwilling
to participate with their funds due to the perceived high risk and high cost of lending to this
sector. Nonetheless, negotiations with BDP for the implementation of the two-tier system
were delayed and this system was ultimately modified due to a change in the regulatory
framework that eliminated the need of using this second-tier bank for financial
intermediation. The credit line could not be established through an IFI either. The tender
to contract the administration of the credit line had to be opened twice due to the few offers
received. Although the contract was awarded to Banco de la Union S.A., the IFI did not
sign it. Low profitability seemed to be the main factor explaining this lack of interest on
the part of IFIs. Initially, the Land Credit Facility was supposed to have a capital allocation
of nearly US$ 4.6 million but then it was reduced to about US$ 0.9 million when funds
were reoriented towards working in TCOs and TCs. The low capital level did not seem to
compensate for the IFI’s transaction and administrative costs, which tend to be high for
this sector.

34.     Financial problems with IFI. In 2011, the PCU selected the Cooperative San
Gabriel, a local IFI, to transfer the grant proceedings to PAs. In 2012 and 2013, the IFI had
unexpected financial problems and lost liquidity. As a result of this problem, the
cooperative withheld the resources needed for sub-project implementation, delaying
disbursements to 185 PAs. An extension of the closing date had to be requested to
compensate for the delay in the implementation of subprojects and Graduation Plan. This
prevented 111 PAs from paying the service providers’ taxes that each contracting entity
has to withhold and later on pay to the Tax Agency, according to the local legal framework
(15% of the contract’s worth).The MRDyL addressed the situation through various legal
measures (including a legal recourse against the cooperative's physical assets). By the
closing date, the MRDyL had managed to recover 26 percent of the funds and agreed to
use this money to pay the withheld taxes on behalf of the PAs.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
35.     As mentioned, the original Results Framework was modified to reflect the new
orientation of the Project and to monitor social inclusiveness and equity. Although a
baseline study was not carried out at the beginning of the implementation, every
beneficiary had to fill a questionnaire, as part of an affidavit for eligibility, which included
key data on household composition, economic activities, income of the members, and land
use. Each sub-project had an Implementation Plan (IP) that established targets for the
installation of productive assets, a disbursement calendar, and a productivity improvement
plan. The PCU used both references to measure the level of achievement of the IP, income
changes and the number of hectares of cropped or grazed land.

36.    The PCU maintained a specialized M&E unit during the course of implementation.
From 2007 to 2010, the process to approve sub-projects was not well established and there
was no systematic collection of information about their progress. The situation improved
in 2011 when a follow-up system of sub-project milestones was established, including a



                                              10
ranking system that provided a quick snapshot of the physical and financial progress. In
2012, the PCU hired an environmental specialist to support in the monitoring and follow-
up of environmental and social aspects of the sub-projects.

37.     The PCU prepared a completion report for each sub-project to systematize the
experience and monitor key results. The members of the CODAL also participated in the
evaluation of sub-projects, which contributed to their capacity to evaluate sub-project
proposals and the establishment of a decentralized monitoring system. From 2011 to 2014,
FAO-TCI and Bank team provided technical support to the M&E unit by carrying out
several field visits and adjusting instruments for data collection. The PCU contracted
external evaluations for the MTR and project closing, and FAO-TCI financed a land market
study in 2012.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
38.     Overall safeguard compliance is considered satisfactory. The Project triggered the
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Pest
Management (OP/BP 4.09), Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11), Indigenous
Peoples (OD 4.20), and Forests (OP/BP 4.36) safeguard policies. As the majority of
beneficiaries were expected to be indigenous peoples, the Project itself was implemented
as an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan. The findings and recommendations of a social
assessment informed project design. Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) was not
triggered as the social assessment did not consider that the Project would affect the land
rights of third parties. The PCU was staffed with social and environmental specialists and
each of the municipal offices had social promoters who spoke the local indigenous
languages. A World Bank social specialist based in La Paz supervised social and gender
issues. Supervision confirmed that overall participation and consultation activities were
satisfactorily implemented and benefits were consistent with the beneficiaries’ culture and
social organization. A grievance redress mechanism was set up in 2012 to provide channels
for beneficiaries to present questions or complaints, with a view to strengthen the project’s
responsiveness to beneficiaries’ needs. Entry points included telephone lines, complaint
boxes located in project offices, and, most importantly, personal assistance in project
offices. Entries, most of which concerned questions and requests for technical support,
were recorded and analyzed by the Social Specialist responsible for the system.

39.     An Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were
also prepared. The PCU complied with the criteria and procedures in the EMP for the
environmental screening of lands, the environmental management of sub-projects, and the
mainstreaming of environmental and sustainable land management practices through
technical assistance and training. The first generation of sub-projects experienced delays
in obtaining the environmental licenses required by the National Environmental Law. In
October 2012, the PCU hired two consultants to assist the PAs in obtaining all the required
permits, strengthening the Project’s capacity to comply with the environmental legislation
and the Bank’s safeguard policies. The PCU developed environmental management tools,
such as screening forms and monitoring reports, in order to ensure the implementation of
proper environmental and social practices and systematize the experience with
environmental and social management in the sub-projects. All the beneficiaries received



                                             11
training to improve environmental managements such as pesticide use, water conservation,
and protection of critical or sensitive areas.

40.      Financial Management capacity had significant shortcomings and overall
compliance is considered moderately unsatisfactory. Adequate procedures for the
implementation of sub-projects were not developed until 2011. Weaknesses in internal
control and the lack of an adequate tool to support the timely and comprehensive recording
of information at sub-project level prevented an adequate monitoring of sub-projects and
timely preparation of financial reports. In addition, the PCU did not manage to document
all the expenses incurred by PAs, which caused some of them to be considered as ineligible.
There were also some overdue audit reports and delays in resolving observations to audit
reports. The cash flow and financial situation of the Cooperative San Gabriel initially put
180 PAs at risk. Weaknesses in internal controls also led to some differences between
accounting records and financial reports, all affecting the reliability of financial
information. Although FM issues were managed with the agreement of action plans, the
PCU had problems attracting and maintaining high-qualified fiduciary staff, which is a
general problem in Bolivia’s public sector, and which became more evident in such a
complex and challenging project.

41.     Procurement capacity improved during the course of implementation and overall
compliance is considered satisfactory. Several key processes were put on hold in 2010 due
to the uncertainty about the future of the Project, but they were subsequently completed.
The PCU had to update the Procurement Manual for PAs to improve operations of sub-
projects, analyzing the supply chain for the different needs required in the project activities.
In this regard, a protocol for the purchasing of livestock was prepared that included
procurement and technical aspects to improve transparency and competitiveness. Also, the
principles of transparency and competitiveness were reinforced through a ‘train-the-
trainers’ model for the procurement and technical staff who then trained the fiduciary
members within the PAs on how to perform each procurement activity.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
42.     The Project contributed a tested model for accessing land through the land use right
mechanism in TCOs and TCs. The Project was designed as a pilot effort, but a follow up
operation was not prepared due to IDA resource constraints and country’s priorities during
the final year of the project. Although there were no specific arrangements for continuing
the implementation of this mechanism by Project closing, the MDRyT considers the model
as a key result that could be replicated in other parts of Santa Cruz and Bolivia.

43.     On the other hand, as detailed in Section 4 below, the PCU developed a graduation
plan for the PAs to help increase their sustainability beyond the project’s life. By the end
of Project, the capacity of the PAs was strengthened. Now, they have the conditions to
participate in other rural development programs such as Rural Alliances to continue
investing in infrastructure, working capital, and TA.
44.

3. Assessment of Outcomes


                                              12
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
45.     The PDOs continue to remain highly relevant as corroborated in the 2006 National
Development Plan (NDP) and the current WB’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
FY2012-2015. The Patriotic Vision 2025 is a more current version of the GOB’s long-term
strategy, but the NDP continued to inform its operationalization by the project closing. The
NDP included a policy for the ‘Transformation of the Tenure Structure and Access to Land
and Forests’ that would pursue equity in the distribution and access to rural land, the
consolidation of territorial rights, and the elimination of the large landed estates. The
Project adapted to the new policy environment becoming the only intervention during this
period to pursue the goal of consolidating land access in TCOs and TCs through productive
investment. The Project contributed to the CPS outcome of increasing the income
generation capacity for excluded groups and rural producers through increased access to
productive land and more predictable access to consumption markets.

46.     The pilot nature of project design and its emphasis on a menu of policies was
crucial for maintaining relevance in an evolving policy environment and market conditions.
The Project redirected efforts to other land access options when the land acquisition
mechanism lost its relevance under the new policy framework and land market conditions.
The Project’s emphasis on consolidating land rights in the private domain, individual or
communal, as an alternative to traditional agrarian reform continued to be relevant. Overall,
the quality of the project design was high and contributed to the continued relevance of the
PDOs. The risk assessment was candid and proved to be relevant for risk mitigation. The
lessons from other ‘willing seller-willing buyer’ land access projects in the region remained
highly relevant to the other three land access mechanisms.

47.     Project implementation helped to articulate an alternative strategy around the
concept of land access to reinforce the goals of agrarian reform. Although the Project faced
the risk of early closing in 2010, the expansion of the Project area and a strategic
restructuring upheld its relevance and helped the Government and the Bank in agreeing to
continue with the project. The decision to cancel the land acquisition mechanism was
informed by an independent evaluation prepared for the MTR and the 2012 land market
study. The reallocation of credit proceeds contributed to the achievement of PDOs by
increasing funds for sub-project grants and technical assistance.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
48.    The Project partially achieved its two PDOs:

Establishing an alternative decentralized beneficiary-driven land distribution
mechanism for organized landless or poor farmers (partially achieved)

49.    This PDO was achieved through decentralized mechanisms to provide increased
access to productive land to beneficiaries organized under PAs (Component A). The
Project exceeded the outcome indicators associated with this PDO: a total of 2,890
households (131% of target value) organized in 237 PAs (125% of target value) to access
151,579 ha of land (132% of target value). The PAs were distributed by tenure type as
follows: 138 in TCOs, 82 in TCs, and 17 in private lands under the lease contract or



                                             13
sharecrop agreement. TCOs and TCs represented over 99 percent of land approved for
productive investments. These achievements were made possible by the establishment and
operation of CODALs in five municipalities (100% of target value).

50.     The Project successfully piloted alternative mechanisms for land access. The results
of the pilot showed that the land acquisition model was not feasible and that the land use
rights mechanism had great potential. The leasing contract and sharecropping agreement
mechanisms had a minimal impact. Before the Project, there was no formal system in the
TCOs or TCs to allocate land to local farmer organizations. In line with the original design,
the CODALs functioned as a decentralized decision-making entity and provided social
monitoring. The communication strategy ensured that households were informed about this
opportunity to access land within their own communities through the use of mass media
and, most importantly, community meetings.

51.     The land use right mechanism was also effective in reaching the target population.
Most beneficiaries in TCOs and TCs already possessed small parcels (1-3 ha as per the
affidavit), but according to baseline values they struggled to sustain a livelihood. Without
capital, they could not request additional land to expand production. In addition, about 10
percent of beneficiaries were landless prior to Project intervention. This group was mainly
composed of single women and young people in their early twenties. All the PAs in TCOs
and TCs maintained their land use right at the end of the Project.

52.     The other two mechanisms—lease contracts and sharecropping agreements—had a
limited impact. Only 17 PAs accessed 826.75 ha of land through these mechanisms. PAs
had short-term contracts or agreements that normally had to be renewed on an annual basis.
With the exception of one PA, family members provided the land access. Although these
mechanisms helped both small and landless farmers gain temporary access to land, the
MTR recommended focusing on TCOs and TCs because of the larger potential for impact.

53.     In spite of these achievements, the PDO was not fully achieved because the Project
was unable to establish a self-sustained mechanism that could be scaled up. The original
design included a credit line that would guarantee future funding for land access. Instead,
the land use rights mechanism relied on grants and by the time of Project closing it was
unclear whether the CODALs would manage to secure additional financing for scaling up.
Furthermore, the original design emphasized the importance of establishing a mechanism
to redistribute highly productive agricultural land held under individual private ownership.
Although the Project helped consolidate land access within TCOs and TCs, it had no impact
on this other land tenure sector. For this reason, this PDO is considered to be partially
achieved.

Supporting productive investments thereon to allow increased and more sustainable
livelihoods for such beneficiaries (partially achieved)

54.     This PDO was achieved through the provision of grants to PAs for small
infrastructure and productive investments on their lands, coupled with technical assistance
and capacity building (Component B). The data to assess this PDO came from the PCU’s



                                             14
monitoring system, an external financial and economic analysis, and an independent final
evaluation.

55.     The Project allocated a total of US$ 9.73 million for sub-projects, 78 percent from
Project grants and 22 percent from PAs’ counterpart contributions. Counterpart funding
exceeded the estimate of US$ 0.63 million by 347 percent. The sub-projects invested in
livestock (70%), agriculture and agroforestry (23%), and other activities such as
aquaculture (7%). A total of 27 out of 237 PAs (27%) discontinued their sub-projects,
mainly due to organizational problems and loss of interest as a result of project inactivity
in 2009-2010.

56.     An external financial and economic analysis provided key measurements for
evaluation based on a sample of 83 PAs. According to this study, the investment sub-
projects increased family income by 39 percent 4 compared to baseline, surpassing the
revised target of 20 percent. Family income increased for all sub-projects types and in all
municipalities, but there was a wide range of values. The sub-projects in Minero were in
the lower end with an 11 percent increase compared to the sub-projects in San Ignacio
Velazco and Pailon which reported a 45 and 49 percent increase. In certain areas,
alternative crops, such as chia and sesame generated an increase of 50 percent of the
producer’s income. Another target was to increase the value of productive assets by at
least 15 percent (comprising value of animals and work capital for agriculture). For
agricultural investments, family assets increased by US$122 or a 15 percent increase
compared to baseline. For livestock investments, family assets increased by US$ 156 or 10
percent compared to baseline. This underperformance is in part explained by the drought
events that affected Charagua in 2012-2013 and the slow breeding cycles that delay the
economic return of cattle investments in the Chaco region. In a way, it is still early in the
productive cycle to measure the impact on livestock assets.

57.     Overall, PAs maintained a good organizational and productive capacity. According
to the PCU’s monitoring system, 85 percent of PAs complied with their Implementation
Plans. This value is above the target of 70 percent. An independent evaluation, however,
concluded from a sample of 105 PAs that only 19 percent of them reached an optimal
production level (between 80 and 100 percent of targets achieved). This evaluation also
found that 52 percent of PAs achieved less than 40 percent of their targets. Another
important achievement was that 74 percent of PAs had women in their boards, significantly
surpassing the target of 10 percent.

58.     As mentioned earlier, PAs accessed 151,579 ha of land, but only 59 percent of this
area was under productive use at project closing. This value is below the target of 70
percent. In part, this underperformance is explained by the CODALs’ decision to approve
more land than immediately required in anticipation of future increases in livestock
production. A positive aspect is that by the end of the Project production was maintained
in 99.7 percent of this active land surface.


4
 In case of livestock subprojects, the income were calculated taking into consideration the sale of the first
animals, which might happen next year or within two years in case of San Ignacio Velasco and Conception.


                                                     15
59.     The Project had a mixed performance with TA and capacity building activities.
Prior to 2011, sub-projects had complex designs with multiple production lines that
required intensive TA. This approach was reoriented to develop specialized sub-projects
which were well adapted to local conditions and had commercialization potential. In spite
of this improvement in TA, the independent evaluation found that only 73 percent of
members were satisfied with the TA provided by the Project (rated as good or excellent),
a value below the target of 80 percent. Also, the evaluation found that only 67 percent of
PAs had completed their training plan. A positive aspect is that 38 percent of members
participating in training were women, a value which is above the target of 20 percent.

60.     Even as PAs completed their targets and families benefited from higher incomes
and an expanded productive asset base, the contribution to sustainable livelihoods is not
fully guaranteed. Particularly in Charagua the level of socio-ecological vulnerability is high
and the experience of previous projects attests to the difficulty of reaching sustainable
outcomes. Sustainability issues are discussed in more detail in Section 4. For this reason,
this PDO is considered to be partially achieved.

                      Table 1: Land Approved v. Land under Production in the Project Area

                                            Approved Land                 Land under Production
                        Number
        Municipality                              Average Size per                 Average Size per PA
                         of PAs     Size (ha)                         Size (ha)
                                                      PA (ha)                             (ha)
        Charagua          127        128,001.00            1,015.88      83,010.75               653.63
        Concepción         30          3,315.00              110.50        933.50                 31.12
        Minero             14           562.22                40.16        318.73                 24.52
        Pailón             19          7,600.73              400.03        503.00                 33.53
        San Ignacio        47         12,100.39              257.45       3,920.00                83.40
        Total             237        151,579.34              364.80      88,685.98              165.24


3.3 Efficiency
61.      An ex-post financial and economic analysis was conducted to evaluate the
economic efficiency of the Project based on a sample of 83 investment sub-projects. The
evaluation measured economic efficiency based on investment subprojects, which
represent the bulk of project financing (72.6%). Although technical assistance and training
activities also have an economic value, the methodology to quantify the economic value of
sub-projects is more straightforward and rigorous. The sampling and evaluation
methodology is explained in Annex 3.

62.     A direct comparison of ex-ante and ex-post indicators is not possible given that the
land acquisition mechanism was not implemented. At appraisal, the ex-ante financial
analysis considered indicative models of potential subprojects that acquired land through a
loan with a 15-year repayment period at an 8 percent annual interest rate. The aggregate
Financial Net Present Value (FNPV) of all investment subprojects was estimated at $17.65
million and the Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) at 16 percent. At completion, the
analysis was based on actual performance and a ten-year cash flow projection that started
to run at the end of the investment period with a discount rate of 12.67 percent (the official
rate in Bolivia).


                                                       16
63.      The aggregate Financial IRR and NPV of the analyzed sub-projects are 18.3 percent
and US$ 1.6 million respectively. These estimates include only the sub-projects’ direct
costs. If a proportion of project management and TA costs is included, the FIRR and FNPV
are reduced to 14.9 percent and US$ 0.8 million respectively. The municipality with the
highest IRR is Pailon (26.9%), followed by San Ignacio de Velasco (25%), Minero (17.6%)
and Conception (15.4%). Charagua has the lowest IRR (13.1%). This municipality had
more than the half of the investment made during the Project. This lower performance
compared to other municipalities is explained by (1) lower incremental returns from
investments in cattle (meat and dairy production) due to the longer gestation period of these
investments; (2) climatic factors that affected the agricultural sub-projects (corn, beans and
sorghum), e.g. the drought faced by Charagua during Project implementation prevented the
development of a greater volume of crops in this region and reduced yields; and (3)
productive associations seem to have less entrepreneurial skills than their counterparts.

64.     The aggregate Economic IRR and NPV of the analyzed sub-projects are 21.76
percent and US$ 2.5 million respectively. The EIRR in each municipality is above the
social discount rate, which means that the Project is socially profitable. Minero is the
municipality with the highest EIRR (34.4%), but its ENPV is low (US$0.12 million) due
to the reduced number of PAs. San Ignacio de Velasco has the highest ENPV (US$ 1.58
million).

65.    The cost of the investment and TA package (Component 2) was US$ 1,016 per
beneficiary or US$ 4,036 per family. These values are similar the cost per family of
investment and TA package in Guatemala (US$ 4,102), Honduras (US$ 3,952), and Brazil
(US$ 3,981).5 The context of each country, however, should be taken into consideration.

66.     Overall, the Project had a modest impact on efficiency. The financial and economic
IRRs are above the discount value, but the gains in NVP are modest. Cost per household
are on par with similar projects.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

67.     As detailed above, the Project remains highly relevant, while its PDOs were
partially achieved and most of its performance indicators were met or exceeded, which
contributed to improving land access for more than 11,000 individual beneficiaries. The
GOB has a tested alternative beneficiary-driven decentralized mechanism to operationalize
agrarian reform policy, which also offers the measures required to support livelihoods in
the newly accessed land. This mechanism directly reached beneficiaries in indigenous and
peasant communities, among the most marginalized population in the lowlands of Bolivia,


5
  Guatemala Land Fund Project (P054462), closed in 2005; Honduras Access to Land Pilot (P073035), closed
in 2006; Brazil Land Based Poverty Alleviation Project I (P050772), closed in 2008. The calculation assumes
that 45 percent of total package was spent on productive investments and TA package; the remaining 55
percent was for land purchase. The estimates are in 2015 dollars.


                                                    17
and offered them a solution that is consistent with territorial rights and the rule of law. This
alternative is rather cost-effective as beneficiaries did not have to pay for the cost of the
land. Overall, this mechanism is consistent with the FAO Voluntary Guidelines on the
Responsible Governance of Land Tenure and could become a model to other countries in
the region.

68.    The Project, however, fell short of establishing a self-sustaining mechanism to
continue expanding land access to landless and poor farmers. This aim remains highly
relevant as the dynamics of land accumulation continue to persist, particularly in the
lowlands of Bolivia. In fact, if the land acquisition mechanism would have been
implemented on a timely basis, the first batch beneficiaries would have enjoyed the
increase in land prices. Nonetheless, the political, financial, legal, and market conditions
were not conducive to the emergence of this approach. The Project took 2.5 additional
years for completion. Furthermore, the Project had a moderate impact on efficiency and
the sustainability of livelihoods is not guaranteed. PAs had significant gains in
organizational and productive capacity as well as gender equity, but they would face
challenging agro-ecological and market conditions. This situation was to be expected
considering the characteristics of the target population and geographic area. Given these
moderate shortcomings, the Project is rated as moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
69.     Poverty Impacts and Social Development. The Project reached a sector of the
rural population historically excluded from development opportunities. The Project
reached members of TCOs and TCs, who legally owned land through communal property,
but in practice did not have the capital and technical support to exercise this right. Precisely
because of their low asset base, this target group did not qualify for assistance under other
rural development projects. The Project raised beneficiaries to a level where they can
benefit from programs such as the Bank-financed Rural Alliances Project. In addition, the
Project helped reduce poverty through increased income from investment and salaries paid
for daily work. The independent evaluation already noted a reduction in the number of
members participating in seasonal migration. Indirectly, the Project’s investment on
capacity building contributed to the implementation of their Management and Life Plans,
which are the planning instruments for TCOs.

70.     The Project built upon customary arrangements. The traditional authority (capitan)
provided the use rights permits upon request by the PAs. Initially, it was thought that the
PAs would pay a fee for using the land. Capitanias, however, accepted to relinquish
payments. This decision was taken in order to avoid setting a precedent for fee-based land
allocation inside TCOs and TCs. There were already other programs in the area that had
not paid this fee. Also, it helped reduce costs to the PAs. During implementation, neither
the PCU nor the Bank supervision noticed a complaint from non-beneficiary households
about exclusion from the Project. In part, this could be explained from the fact that there
were plenty of underutilized lands in the community.




                                              18
71.    The establishment of PAs contributed to the strengthening of social capital and
empowerment of their members. The creation of PAs built upon the minga, a traditional
associative scheme among the Guarani and Chiquitanos. The collective efforts required to
agree and implement investment plans strengthened organizational capacity and built
leadership skills. A large number of beneficiaries, particularly women and youth, did not
have identity documents prior to this intervention. This integration into national records is
an important component of democracy building. Through this support, project
beneficiaries, 66 percent of them indigenous, have more opportunities to benefit and
contribute to the life of their communities and country.

72.     Gender Aspects. The Project also improved the conditions for gender equality.
Women in rural areas, and particularly among the Guarani, had a limited participation in
productive and organizational aspects of their communities. The Project managed to
achieve equity in the participation of men and women as beneficiaries. In terms of
administrative duties, women held 32 percent of board member positions and held the
presidency in 8 percent of PAs (PA boards were composed of a President, a Vice President,
a Treasurer, a Secretary, and up to three additional members). This means that women
participated in the boards of 176 PAs or 74 percent of the total. Although equality was not
reached, this represents an effort to improve equity. These improvements were in part due
to the attention that the PCU gave to gender issues. The PCU generated a ‘directory of
women’ to monitor their participation in the Project’s various activities. Also, the PCU
provided dedicated assistance to women-led PAs to strengthen their leadership role and
compensate for any lack of previous experience.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
73.     Project preparation became a site of consultation and mediation of various positions
concerning agrarian reform at a historical moment in Bolivia. Through implementation, the
Project fostered a dialogue with the Vice-Ministry of Lands on how to operationalize the
country’s agrarian reform policy. In the future, the mechanism piloted in the TCOs and TC
could become a model for expanding land access based on usufruct rights in other parts of
Bolivia and other countries. The Project also contributed to decentralization and social
accountability through the establishment of CODALs. The CODALs have the potential to
continue organizing and monitoring development projects in their municipalities.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
74.     Compliance with the National Tax Service Authority (SIN). The PAs faced
problem of fines and unpaid taxes due to circumstances outside of their control. When PAs
opened their bank accounts in Cooperative San Gabriel, they were registered in the SIN
under a business tax filing status that required them to present financial statements. The
PAs did not comply with this requirement and incurred fines. The PCU and SIN analyzed
the situation and concluded that the filing status had been inappropriate for the type of
economic activity conducted by the PAs. The SIN agreed to retroactively change the filing
status in order to cancel the fines and then close their National Tax Identification Numbers
(NIT). By Project closing date, only three out of 173 PAs had not presented the paperwork
to change their filing status.




                                             19
75.     Protocol for the purchasing of livestock. The Project supported the preparation
of a protocol to strengthen the capacity of PAs when purchasing livestock for their
investment sub-projects. The protocol proved to be effective and now cattle ranchers in
Chiquitania are using it for their own operations. In this regard, the Project is contributing
to increased transparency and competiveness of the rural sector.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
76.     The independent final evaluation included a beneficiary survey with the Project.
The survey had a sample size of 58 beneficiaries from a total of 36 PAs. The PAs were
selected using a representative sample. According to respondents, the main sources of
information about the Project were municipal projects and programs (32.8%), communal
assembly (22.4%), and neighbors (20.7%). After learning about the Project, 52 percent
decided to join it during a communal assembly and 48 percent during a PA meeting. In
Minero, Pailon, and San Ignacio de Velasco, all investment sub-projects were selected by
the members of the PAs. In Concepcion, 78 percent were selected by the PAs and 22
percent by the communal assembly. In Charagua, 48 percent were selected by the
communal assembly, 26 percent by the PAs, and 17 percent by another collective
mechanism such as a communal authority.

77.     Overall, beneficiaries recognized that the Project helped improve access to land,
TA, inputs for agriculture and livestock production, and enhanced production.
Beneficiaries, however, do not think that the Project has provided access to markets,
increased income, or improved livelihoods. Also, the perception about the Project’s
satisfaction of needs and expectations did not achieve the end target of 80 percent. Only 71
percent of beneficiaries responded to be highly satisfied or satisfied with the Project in this
regard; 26 percent responded to be partially satisfied; and 3 percent as unsatisfied.
Beneficiaries have a high level of satisfaction with how their PA functions. 72 percent of
respondents rated PA functioning as very good or good, 26 percent as regular, and 2 percent
as poor.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

78.    The risk to development outcome is considered substantial given that there are no
arrangements to continue financing the mechanism piloted under the Project and that the
PAs would face challenges for expanding production. The GOB has a proven mechanism
to consolidate access to land in TCOs and TCs. CODALs are composed of local actors
performing their activities within established institutional settings, and as such it offers a
model that can be easily replicated in other parts of Bolivia. Nonetheless, the GOB would
need to allocate funds for the matching grants and TA.

79.    PAs will face challenges to maintain production of their investment subprojects.
The independent evaluation found that 68 percent of PAs believed that they had the
conditions to continue the sub-project, 3 percent believed that they had partial conditions,
and 26 percent believed that they had no conditions. The ability of PAs to reach this
outcome varies by municipality. The PAs in Pailon and Minero face the better prospects of



                                              20
sustainability. Since they were established in the period 2007-2009, they acquired more
experience and received more TA. By the end of the Project, the 14 PAs in Minero were
already functioning with relative autonomy. Although PAs in San Ignacio de Velasco
started operations as recently as 2012, their agro-forestry investments also have a
promising outlook. The highest level of risk is in livestock investments in Charagua
because of extreme climatic events.

80.     As a mitigation measure, the PCU assisted each PA in the implementation of a
Graduation Plan. The Graduation Plan included a set of minimum conditions that the PA
must had achieved by the end of project support in order to increase its sustainability. These
conditions were related to organizational, administrative, technical, and entrepreneurial
competencies. As a result, the capacity of the PAs was strengthened, and by the end of the
project they have the conditions to continue with their productive activities and participate
in other rural development programs..

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.     This rating is based on the commitment to offer an innovative solution to solve a
structural problem in Bolivia. The Project represented a ‘high-risk – high-reward’
undertaking to establish a mechanism to redistribute some of the best agricultural land in
the country in favor of poor and landless farmers. Project design reflected good practice
related to ‘willing seller-willing buyer’ land access projects in the region and attempted to
replicate the successful experience of Brazil in this regard. Although a land market study
was prepared, the analysis was not thorough enough to assess the replicability of the
Brazilian model in Bolivia. The lending phase spanned over three presidential
administrations, and the Bank team had to bridge the gap between evolving positions about
the role of land markets in agrarian reform. Ultimately, project design was overly optimistic
about the conditions for land acquisition in Santa Cruz, but the Project emphasis on piloting
a menu of options provided the flexibility to reorient activities during implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

82.     Initial project supervision was marked by disagreements with the Government over
the Project’s focus on private land purchase and geographical targeting. The Bank’s
internal processing of the first restructuring package delayed implementation. Bank
performance improved after the effectiveness of the first amendment. Overall, supervision
missions were timely, appropriately resourced, and solution-oriented. Although the MTR
was scheduled eight months prior to the closing date, this late date was more aligned with
the actual mid-term due to early delays in disbursement. The MTR resulted in effective
decisions and agreements (through a Project restructuring), and technical and safeguard
issues affecting implementation were adequately handled through a close collaboration



                                             21
with FAO-TCI. Environmental and Social safeguards were well supervised particularly
given the level of complexity and risks associated with sensitive areas and indigenous
peoples’ land rights. The successful Project restructurings attest to the timeliness and
responsiveness of Bank supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.     Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory and
quality of supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. Thus, overall Bank performance is
rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

84.      Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory mainly due to the lack of
government ownership during the initial implementation period. During the course of
Project preparation, the policies of the GOB towards agrarian reform changed significantly.
Although the GOB eventually embraced the Project as an instrument to advance this policy,
the initial period was affected by significant delays. The Government took several months
to approve the supreme decrees that were required to initiate activities under the PPA and
approve the first amendment to the DCA. These delays put at risk the achievement of the
PDO and affected the implementation schedule.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

85.     Implementing agency performance is rated moderately satisfactory reflecting
evolving political commitments and the initial shortcomings in project management.
Throughout implementation, but particularly after the first restructuring, the MDRyT
remained attentive to the actions required to advance the Project and maintained an open
communication channel with the PCU and the Bank. The institutional oversight by the
Vice-Ministry of Lands, however, had some shortcomings due to the constant rotation of
Vice-Ministers during the implementation period. These changes created a discontinuity in
processes and introduced new perspectives and demands that affected operations. The PCU
had four coordinators and experienced a high rotation of technical staff. Initial project
management had significant shortcomings in financial management and M&E. Project
management improved in 2011 when the effectiveness of the first amendment allowed
hiring a new coordinator and replacing technical staff. The PCU improved its fiduciary,
technical, safeguard, and M&E capacities, but continued to experience some shortcomings.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                            22
86.     Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory and Implementing
Agency performance is rated moderately satisfactory. Thus, overall Borrower performance
is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

87.     A pilot project needs to incorporate a system to test innovation and make
results available to policymakers for scaling up. Piloting alternative land access
mechanisms for poor and landless peasants carries a high degree of uncertainty. In order to
have flexible arrangements, project design should incorporate from the onset a menu of
options and establish a system for measuring their effectiveness. This system needs to
integrate financial, organizational, and technical data about the investments. In addition,
there should be a rigorous impact evaluation based on quasi-experimental methods to
measure the effect on income and livelihoods across options and to a control group. Also,
there should be benchmarks for scaling up successful interventions in order to avoid a
disruption of Project activities.

88.     Interventions that rely on market transactions for expanding land access need to
conduct a detailed ex-ante evaluation of land markets conditions and monitor land prices
throughout implementation. The ex-ante land market study needs to consider structural
conditions, such as legal restrictions and market segmentation, to assess the potential
supply of eligible land. This should be a multi-sited study that takes into consideration the
heterogeneity of local conditions within a macro region. Projects should also monitor prices
on a constant basis to identify market opportunities and report on trends. In this regard, the
project could link to or help establish a land observatory, which would contribute to
improved capacity to govern land deals.

89.     In order to encourage the participation of IFIs, capital endowments should be large
enough to offer an acceptable profit margin. In general, IFIs are not interested in lending
to poor farmers because of high risk and high costs. The capital endowment of a credit
facility minimizes the risk, but IFIs are still concerned about the transaction and
administrative costs. The capital endowment should be large enough to ensure that the
participating IFI would have sufficient profit margin to participate in the scheme.

90.     It is possible to implement productive investments in ways that are compatible
with customary land tenure. The land use rights mechanism sets a positive precedent for
working with indigenous and peasant communities in the regions of Chaco and Chiquitania
with potential to expand to other regions. Since land within the TCOs and TCs cannot be
sold or used as collateral, it is often excluded from productive investments. Nonetheless, it
is possible to implement productive investments in customary land tenure arrangements.
The allocation of land rights and investment funds to PAs can be done without causing
internal divisions or conflicts with non-beneficiaries. Those who do not participate in PAs,
also stand to benefit from improved economic conditions in their communities.

91.   Projects looking to expand land access should also consider modalities based
on usufruct rights. Land access projects tend to emphasize land acquisition because the



                                             23
transfer of ownership rights represents a permanent change in the agrarian structure and is
supposed to incentivize production. The transfer of usufruct rights, however, could also be
a meaningful mechanism to expand land access. Modalities based on the transfer of
usufruct rights could be implemented in settings where land transfers are restricted, such
as communal lands, or land acquisition is too expensive or undesirable. Particularly for
newly established PAs, usufruct rights could provide them with a more cost-effective way
of increasing their capital and piloting production schemes.

92.     Working through decentralized decision-making bodies helps to mainstream
consultation and social monitoring and improve productive potential. Local-based
decision-making bodies that incorporate regional stakeholders (municipality, traditional
authorities, universities, and private sector) can play a crucial role in the evaluation and
monitoring of investment activities. Given their composition, they can perform the function
of social monitoring or consultation, for example among projects that include indigenous
peoples. In addition, these local entities have the potential to improve productivity capacity
because they can facilitate the creation of a support network for PAs and become recipients
of local knowledge about regional best practices.

93.      PAs should specialize on a few production lines that are well-adapted to the local
conditions and have commercialization potential. Models based on an integrative approach
to food security could result in multiple production lines that require different kinds of TA.
When the sub-projects are geographically dispersed and the supply of service providers is
limited, providing high-quality TA could become very expensive or even impossible. For
this reason, it is recommended that PAs specialize in one or two production lines. These
activities should be selected from those that are suitable for commercialization in local
markets and agro-ecological condition.

94.     Projects working to improve the productive capacity of vulnerable rural
populations should facilitate insertion into markets. In general, poor rural households
need to complement their income with off-farm employment in order to meet basic
subsistence consumption. In regions like Santa Cruz, it is common for household members
to migrate for temporary employment in the agricultural industry. These jobs have
precarious working conditions and pay low wages. Investment activities that result in sales
and earnings can help to substitute for sub-optimal employment and capitalize the
households. In order to insert sub-projects into markets, a commercialization strategy needs
to be developed and implemented early in the production cycle.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies6

95.      The GOB implemented the Project during a period of significant political and
institutional transformation for the country. The Project benefited 2,800 families organized
in PAs with expanded access to land, TA, and agricultural inputs contributing to growth in


6
 Comments received from the MDRyT (the Implementing Agency) via electronic mail on March 7, 2015.
Team’s translation based on document in Spanish available in Project Files.


                                               24
agricultural and livestock production, environmental sustainability, gender equity, and
improved organizational capacity.

96.     An independent evaluation confirmed that 70 percent of the PA reached the
expected outputs in their implementation plans, which resulted in an increase in family
income and productive assets. Indirectly, the Project contributed to a decrease in temporal
migration, strengthened democracy, promoted social inclusion by processing the identity
documents of women and youth who did not have them, and prepared beneficiaries to
access other programs financed by the World Bank, such as the Productive Alliances
Project, which have more stringent demands for organizational and productive capacities.

97.     The Project contributed a valuable model for the implementation of similar projects
in Bolivia in the near future. The Project generated important lessons about the mechanism
of land use rights in TCOs and TCs, technical and social monitoring, social vulnerability,
taxation, and the protocol for livestock acquisition.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                            25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
           Components                                           Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                                    Appraisal
                                                                   millions)
Component 1. Land Purchase                         4.86                 0.18                  4%
Component 2. Productive
                                                   7.86                 11.67                148%
Investment
Component 3. Project
Management, Monitoring and                         1.75                  4.237               242%
Evaluation
           Total Baseline Cost                   14.47                  16.08                111%
Physical Contingencies
                                                   0.00                  0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                  1.16                   0.00                 0.00
             Total Project Costs                 15.63                  16.08                103%
      Total Financing Required                   15.63                  16.08                103%




(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of         Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing        (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                             millions)   millions)
Producer Associations                     Counterpart               0.63        2.19      347%
International Development
                                          Credit                    15.00            13.89            93%
Association (IDA)




7
 This amount includes technical assistance costs that were charged to this component prior to the creation
of a new disbursement category in 2013.



                                                    26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The development objectives of the Project were (a) to establish an alternative decentralized
beneficiary-driven land distribution mechanism for organized landless or poor farmers, and
(b) support productive investments thereon to allow increased and more sustainable
livelihoods for such beneficiaries. The first PDO (land distribution mechanism) was to be
achieved through acquisition of private land. However, the land acquisition mechanism
faced several challenges: (i) the credit line could not be established; (ii) the supply of
eligible land was limited; and (iii) land values significantly increased putting prices beyond
the Project’s financing parameters. Nonetheless, the Project was able to achieve the aim of
this objective through other alternative mechanisms.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) recognized that a menu of policies was required
to improve access to productive land for landless and land-poor rural populations. Given
the inability to launch the land acquisition mechanism, other three additional modalities
were piloted during the Project Preparation Advance (PPA). When the Credit became
effective, a restructuring was prepared to adapt the Project to the new circumstances. The
first restructuring changed the two-tier design of the Land Credit Facility and introduced
three additional mechanisms for land access:

       (i) Leasing Agreements (Arrendamiento). Under this mechanism, a land owner
       agreed to temporarily transfer the use and enjoyment of the land for a specific time
       period in exchange for payment. Under the project, this was reflected in a written
       contractual agreement between a PA and the land owner(s). This type of contract is
       well-recognized in Bolivian land law. For leasing transactions financed by the
       Project, the land had to be registered in the Real Property Registry in the name of
       the owner who signed the contract, and the contract had to stipulate the rented area,
       the time period of the rental agreement and the payment(s) required.

       (ii) Share-cropping Agreements (Derechos de Uso de Suelo) Through this equity-
       sharing mechanism, the owner of a land parcel gave use of the land to a PA in
       exchange for a percentage of its equity and a negotiated amount of the production.
       This is done through a contract which is well-developed in Bolivian jurisprudence.
       For this type of contract to be acceptable under the Project, the property had to be
       registered in the name of the owner who signed the contract or the owner’s legal
       delegate. Moreover, the contract had to specify the physical area and location of the
       parcel(s) in the transaction, the time duration of the agreement, the share of equity
       in the enterprise assumed by the land owner, and the specific rights and obligations
       of the land owner and the PA.

       (iii) Land use rights (Aparceria Comunal) This mechanism was used only for PAs
       whose members are part of a TCOs and TC, which are both collective properties
       recognized by the 1996 agrarian reform law (Law No. 1715).
       Specifically, agreements were signed between the PA and the communal
       authorities in charge of land administration in the TCO or TC stipulating that the
       association was entitled to the long-term use of a determined land area in exchange



                                             27
       for compensation paid to the community. In this sense, the mechanism was
       equivalent to a long-term lease contract within a communal landholding
       situation. This access was free and for an indeterminate period of time, but
       according to customary rules, the land might be required by the authorities in case
       the PA is not using it properly. The location of the land area to be used, the duration
       of the use agreement and the detailed arrangements of the compensation plan were
       spelled out in the agreement. The legal basis for this contract is found in the
       Constitution and in the 1996 agrarian reform law which provide for communal
       authorities to determine land use and land allocation within their communal land
       boundaries for community members according to their own internal regulations and
       customs.

Evolving policy environment. The Project took place during a period of significant
political and institutional transformations for the Bolivia. The timeline below records some
of the key dates for political and Project-specific events.

   Year              Political Events                     Project-specific Events
   2002                                           GOB submits request for Project
                                                  preparation (August)
   2003     Gas protests (September)

            President Gonzalo Sanchez de
            Lozada resigns and Carlos Mesa
            assumes office (October)
   2004                                           GOB ratified request for Project
                                                  Preparation (January)
                                                  Project Concept Review (March)
   2005     Gas protests (March-June)             Project Appraisal (April)
                                                  PPA is declared effective (June)
            New Decentralization Law is
            approved (April)

            Hydrocarbons Law is approved
            (May)

            President Carlos Mesa resigns
            and Eduardo Rodriguez assumes
            office (June)

            Evo Morales wins election
            (December)
   2006     Evo Morales assumes office PCU is established (November)
            (January)

            Hydrocarbons     Nationalization
            Law is approved (May)


                                             28
            National Development Plan is
            approved (November)

            Law 3545 for targeting agrarian
            reform to indigenous peoples and
            peasants is approved (November)
   2007                                          First PAs are conformed

                                           Board Approval (October)
   2008     Autonomy referendum is held in PPA Agreement is amended (May)
            Santa Cruz (May)
                                           Three alternative mechanisms are piloted
            New Constitution is approved under the PPA
            (December)
   2009     President Evo Morales is re- Credit is declared effective (March)
            elected (December)
   2010                                    First Project Restructuring is approved
                                           (April)
   2011                                    First legal amendment is declared
                                           effective (March)
   2012                                    Mid-Term Evaluation (February)
                                           Second Project Restructuring is
                                           approved (June)

                                                 Project area expands to Concepcion and
                                                 San Ignacio (August)

                                                 Cooperative San Gabriel reports
                                                 liquidity problem
   2013                                          Third Project Restructuring is approved
                                                 (January)

                                                Fourth Project Restructuring is approved
                                                (November)
   2014     President Evo Morales            is Fifth Project Restructuring is approved
            reelected (December)                (May)

                                                 Project closes (September)

Second and Third Restructuring. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) was conducted in
February 2012. The MTR confirmed that the Project was still relevant and recommended
restructuring to ensure that its PDOs were achieved. The restructuring was divided into two
parts. The first part of the restructuring was approved in May 2012 and extended the closing
date from June 29, 2012 to March 21, 2014. The second part was approved in January 24,
2013 and reformulated the Results Matrix, established a new disbursement category,


                                            29
reallocated Credit proceeds, and recognized the incorporation of the municipalities of
Concepcion and San Ignacio de Velasco into the Project area. The specific changes to the
Results Matrix are detailed in Attachment 1 below.

Fourth and Fifth Restructuring. A fourth restructuring was approved in November 2013
to extend the closing date to June 15, 2014. A fifth restructuring was approved in May 2014
to extend the closing date to September 15, 2014. The cumulative period of extensions was
2.5 years.

Project Operational Manual. The Project Operational Manual (POM) established the
selection criteria for beneficiaries and land. The POM was amended in 2012 to reflect the
first restructuring. The selection criteria established that all land, private or communal, had
to be regularized and titled. For TCOs and TCs, the communal authorities had to provide
permits and other community members had to agree with the land allocations. At the time
of the amendment in 2011, the rules required payment to the community for the use of land.
After the MTR, the communal authorities accepted to drop this requirement. For the most
part, the selection criteria were complied with, which minimized the reputation risk for the
Project and the Bank. The exception was the PCU’s decision to approve sub-projects for
three PAs located in the municipality of Warnes. The members of these PAs came from a
TCO in Charagua, but the sub-projects were outside of the Project area and were not
approved by the CODALs. These sub-projects were cancelled.

The outputs by component are explained below.

Component 1: Land Acquisition

The aim of this component was the financing of land purchase by associations of low-
income rural workers. This financing was to be made in the form of long-term loans to PAs
through a rotating fund establishing by the Project. The land acquisition mechanism did
not operate during the Project. The land use rights mechanism in TCOs and TCs was the
most important instrument to increase land access and reach the target population. PAs
benefited from the opportunity of using land within their own territories. For the Project,
the land use right mechanism provided conditions for long-term land access and the entire
territory benefits from the investments on infrastructure. In contrast, land owners had the
discretion to set the terms for the duration of contract or agreement under the leasing and
sharecropping mechanisms, and fixed investments remained under land owner control.

The Project facilitated access to 151,579 ha of approved land, out of which 132,301 ha
(87.3%) were located in TCOs, 18,851 ha (12.2%) in TCs, and 827 ha (0.5%) in private
lands. Total land allocation exceeded the end target of 115,000 ha. The average amount of
allocated land was 52 ha per beneficiary family and 640 ha per PA. By municipality,
approved land was distributed 84.4 percent in Charagua, 8.0 percent in San Ignacio de
Velasco, 5 percent in Pailon, 2.2 percent in Concepcion, and 0.4 percent in Minero.

Out of the 151,579 ha of approved land, 88,686 ha or 59 percent of total were under
agricultural production or livestock grazing. This value was below the end target of 80



                                              30
percent. Percentage of land under production was higher for agricultural than livestock sub-
projects. Livestock sub-projects included more than in anticipation of future growth and
pasture rotation. By municipality, the percentage of land under production was 64.9 percent
in Charagua, 56.7 percent in Minero, 32.4 percent in San Ignacio de Velasco, 28.2 percent
in Concepcion, and 6.6 percent in Pailon.

Between 2007 and 2009, CODALs approved 25,940 ha with PPA financing. In 2010, the
Project did not approve any requests because the legal amendment was under revision. The
years with more approvals were 2011 and 2012 with 69,023 and 56,615 respectively. No
more requests were approved after 2012 because there would not be sufficient time for PAs
to finalize their investments by project closing.

The Project helped 2,891 beneficiary families gain access to land. The achieved value is
higher than the end target of 2,200. This corresponds to 11,488 direct project beneficiaries.8
The TCOs in Charagua are predominately Guarani and TCO and the TCOs and TCs of San
Ignacio de Velasco and Concepcion are predominately Chiquitano (besire). In Pailon and
Minero, the most beneficiaries were of Andean origin.

The Project helped establish 237 PAs, surpassing the end target of 190. The distribution of
PAs by land tenure was: 138 in TCOs, 82 in TCs, and 17 in private lands. By municipality,
127 were in Charagua, 47 in San Ignacio de Velasco, 30 in Concepcion, 19 in Pailon, and
14 in Minero. 27 PAs or 11 percent of total PAs were suspended, 11 were in Charagua, 9
in Minero, 4 in Pailon, and 3 in Concepcion. There were no suspended PAs in San Ignacio
de Velasco. The main reasons for suspension were internal administrative problems and
lack of interest among members to continue with the sub-project. The number of suspended
PAs was disproportionally higher in Minero, some of the first to start operations. In terms
of administrative duties, women held 32 percent of board member positions and held the
presidency in 8 percent of PAs.

Since the Project did not finance any land acquisition, actual cost of this component was
only US$ 0.18 million or 4 percent of appraisal estimate. Actual expenditures were used to
finance consultant services. Counterpart funds covered payments in leasing contracts.




8
 Estimate based on original assumption of 10 households per PA, and an average of 5 people per
household.




                                                  31
                   Land Use Rights in TCOs          Land Use Rights in TCs          Leasing/Sharecropping
  Municipality    PAs    Approved       In Use    PAs     Approved      In Use    PAs    Approved      In Use
                            (ha)         (ha)                (ha)        (ha)               (ha)        (ha)
Charagua             127      128,001    83,011        0            0         0       0            0         0
Concepción             7          700       177       23        2,615       757       0            0         0
Minero                 0            0         0        3          200        16      11          362       303
Pailón                 0            0         0       13        7,136       327       6          465       176
San Ignacio            4        3,600     1,200       43        8,500     2,720       0            0         0
Total                138      132,301    84,387       82       18,451     3,820      17          827       479
% of Total        58.2%        87.3%     95.2%    34.6%        12.2%      4.3%    7.2%         0.5%      0.5%
Source: SAX Independent Evaluation with data from the PCU.


Component 2: Productive Investments

This component supported each of the 237 PAs with productive investments through grants
and technical assistance. The sub-projects were 54 percent for bovine livestock, 15 percent
other livestock, 12 percent for agriculture, 11 percent agro-forestry, and 8 percent other
(aquaculture, milk production, poultry, and horticulture). Bovine livestock sub-projects are
concentrated in Charagua, Concepcion, and San Ignacio de Velasco. Minero has the most
diversity of sub-projects with investments in agriculture, poultry, milk production, and
porcine livestock. Pailon has investments in agriculture, milk production, and bovine
livestock.

Since 2012, the PCU monitored the physical and financial progress of sub-projects’
Investment Plans (IPs) using a scale of 1 to 4. A score of 1 represents less than 25 percent
of progress, 2 is from 25 percent to 50 percent progress, 3 is 50 percent to 75 percent
progress, and 4 is more than 75 percent progress. When the final evaluation was prepared
in July 2014, the sub-projects in Charagua and Pailon had an average rate of 3 and the sub-
projects in San Ignacio de Velasco and Concepcion had an average of 4. Some of the delays
in implementation were the result of the liquidity problem experienced by the Cooperative
San Gabriel. Some PAs experienced delays in accessing funds to implement their sub
projects. Sub-projects in Minero were not rated using this scale because investments had
already closed in this municipality by 2012. Although San Ignacio de Velasco and
Concepcion were the last two municipalities to be included in the Project, their sub-projects
had the best operational performance. On average, financial execution lagged by 7 percent
from physical execution, which according to the independent final evaluation is an
acceptable rate for this type of investments.

An external financial and economic analysis provided key measurements for evaluation
based on a sample of 83 PAs. According to this study, the investment sub-projects
increased family income by 54 percent compared to baseline, surpassing the revised target
of 20 percent and the original target of 50 percent. Family income increased for all sub-
projects types and in all municipalities, but there was a wide range of values. The sub-
projects in Minero were in the lower end with a 16 percent increase compared to the sub-
projects in Pailon which reported a 96 percent increase. Another target was to increase the
value of productive assets by at least 15 percent. For agricultural investments, family
assets increased by US$122 or a 15 percent increase compared to baseline. For livestock
investments, family assets increased by US$ 1,435 or a 614 percent compared to baseline.


                                                      32
This exorbitant increase was made possible by the acquisition of livestock from grant
financing. If the cost of livestock were to be included, families would have had an asset
loss of US$ 78. This underperformance is in part explained by the drought events that
affected Charagua in 2012-2013 and the slow breeding cycles that delay the economic
return of cattle investments in the Chaco region. In a way, it is still early in the productive
cycle to measure the impact on livestock assets.

The Project trained 3,981 beneficiaries in 2012 and 2013. The number of participants
covered 100 percent of beneficiaries in Concepcion, 82 percent in San Ignacio de Velasco,
61 percent in Charagua, and 51 percent in Pailon. However, some beneficiaries participated
in more than one training event. The exact number of beneficiaries that participated in at
least one training event is not known. Women accounted for 38 percent of members
participating in training events. This value was higher than the end target of 20 percent.
Charagua had the lowest record of women’s participation in training event with only 33
percent. In Concepcion, Pailon, and San Jose de Velasco women’s participation was around
41 percent.

The actual cost of this component was US$ 11.67 million or 148 percent of appraisal
estimate. The higher cost represents reallocation of Credit proceedings from Component 1
to investment grants and technical assistance as well as larger contributions from
counterpart funds.

                                              Execution             Progress Rating
       Municipality        APs                                                            Average
                                        Physical     Financial   Physical     Financial
     Charagua              128           82%            64%         3             3          3
     Pailón                19            70%            67%         3             3          3
     San Ignacio de V.     47            96%            91%         4             4          4
     Concepción            30            94%            90%         4             4          4
     Total                 224           85%            78%         3             3          3
       Source: SAX Final Evaluation with data from the PCU


Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

This component financed the coordination, administration, financial management, and
M&E of the Project. The Project was managed by a PCU based in the city of Santa Cruz.
The PCU was staffed with technical, fiduciary, and monitoring personnel. Local
operational units were established in each municipality to provide oversight to the sub-
projects. During implementation, the PCU opened a specialized unit to provide technical
assistance (TA) to PAs. The PCU made this decision after considering that there were not
enough service providers to assist PAs.

Project management faced several challenges. In 2010, many staff members left the PCU
as a result of uncertainty about the future of the Project. The PCU was re-staffed in 2011
and project management improved. However, these circumstances affected operations.

The Project maintained adequate procurement capacity, but financial management had
shortcomings. PAs received the assistance of accountants to help with financial
management, but accounts were not always fully reconciled. The Project’s M&E system


                                                    33
was significantly improved in 2011 when information about the physical and financial
execution of sub-projects was integrated. The M&E system was maintained in Microsoft
Excel spreadsheets, which was effective for the preparation of reports and sub-project
oversight.

Also, this component financed consulting services to assist MDRyT, through the Vice-
Ministry of Lands and Rural Development, in the preparation of a new land access policy.
The actual cost of this component was US$ 4.23 million or 242 percent of appraisal
estimate. One reason for this increase is that during the early implementation period
technical assistance costs were charged to this component. This situation was fixed when
the Project was restructured to create a new category for technical assistance. However,
not all payments were reposted.




                                          34
Attachment 1 – Changes to the Results Matrix
   Project Outcome Indicators              Core     D=Dropped          Baseline (Actual at the time                  Cumulative Target Values*
                                                    C=Continued             of restructuring)
                                                    N= New                                                YR 1    YR2           YR 3             YR4     YR5
                                                    R=Revised
                                                                             UoM         Value
[1] Direct Project beneficiaries                    N                 Number             8,100            1,000   3,000         8,500        10,000      11,000
                                             X

[1(a)] Female beneficiaries                                           Number             4,130            550     1,600         4,335            5,100   5,610

[2] At least 20% increase in                        R                 Percentage           16              --      --            16               --      20
beneficiary family income
[3] Local level decision-making and                 R                 Number               5               3       3              3               5        5
monitoring entities established in
participating municipalities
[4] At least 15% increase in value of               N                 Percentage           --              --      --             --              12      15
productive assets of beneficiary
families
[5] At least 10% of Productive                      N                 Percentage           --              --      --             --              8       10
Associations (PAs) have women in
their Boards
Monitoring system to assess the net                 D                 Number              n/a              n/a     n/a           n/a              n/a     n/a
economic benefits of increased
agricultural production established
120 farms selected and acquired by                  D                 Number              n/a              n/a     n/a           n/a              n/a     n/a
Productive Associations (PAs) via
new mechanisms
                                                                                   Intermediate Results

Intermediate Result (Component one): Land access provided to beneficiaries



Revised Intermediate Result (Component one): n/a



1.1 At least 2,200 beneficiary                      R                    Number          2,000             200     600          1,700            2,000   2,200
families access land through
Productive Associations (PAs)




                                                                                            35
1.1 (a) At least 190 PAs established                 N                   Number               180           40       100      150      180       190


1.2 At least 115,000 hectares                        R                   Hectare             90,000        25,000   45,000   90,000   100,000   115,000
accessed by PAs
Intermediate Result (Component Two): Productive investments provided to and carried out by beneficiaries

Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two): n/a

2.1 At least 70% of the productive                    N                 Percentage             --            --       --       --       70        70
sub-projects comply satisfactorily
with agreed implementation plans
2.2 At least 70% of land accessed by                  N                 Percentage             --            --       --       55       60        70
PAs are put under productive use

2.3 At least 80% of PAs are satisfied                 N                 Percentage             --            --       --       --       80        80
with the technical assistance
provided by the Project
2.4 At least 20% of participants in                   N                 Percentage             15            --       --       --       15        20
training sessions are women

At least US$8.0 million in total                      D                  Amount                n/a          n/a      n/a      n/a       n/a       n/a
value of productive investments                                          (USD)

At least 90% of production                            D                 Percentage             n/a          n/a      n/a      n/a       n/a       n/a
investment subprojects are
completed
Intermediate Result (Component Three): Project managed and evaluated adequately



Revised Intermediate Result (Component Three): n/a



3.1 Project M&E system established                    N                  Number                2             1        1        2         2         3
and updated periodically, and Mid-
term and final evaluation completed




                                                                                                36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Background: Through financing from the World Bank of a credit of SDR 9.80 million
(US$ 15 million equivalent) to the Republic of Bolivia, the Ministry of Rural Development
and Land (MDRyT, in Spanish abbreviations) implemented the Bolivia Land Agricultural
Development Project (PROTIERRAS, in Spanish abbreviations). The Project partially
helped to establish a decentralized beneficiary-driven land distribution mechanism, while
supporting productive investments that helped to improve the livelihoods of beneficiaries.
Through the Project financing, mainly productive goods, works and services in the form of
matching grants, Productive Associations (PAs) were empowered.

Overall impact of the project: As a result of the productive investments financed by the
Project, the main economic impacts have been improved farmer incomes, primarily due to
increase in production and/or productivity (yield). The Project has also had social impacts
by improved land access to the families of organized landless and poor farmers. Many of
these families are of indigenous descent. The benefits of producer organizations
empowerment, capacity building and technical assistance are difficult to measure
economically, but it is expected that they will translate into increased productivity.

Project benefits and outputs: The Project has helped to establish 237 Productive
Associations (PA), benefitting approximately 2,900 mainly poor indigenous families and
incorporating approximately 151,000 hectares of land for productive uses. The Project
strengthened the APs organization and co-financed productive investment sub-projects on
matching grants basis, which have helped to improve the livelihoods of beneficiaries.
According to findings, beneficiary households' income has increased by over 39 percent
and their assets by 15 percent for agricultural investments and by US$ 1,437 for livestock
investments (more than six times compared to baseline, mainly due to the acquisition of
livestock from grant financing).

Project costs and financing: As shown in Annex 1, the actual total Project cost was
US$ 16.08 million, 103 percent of the appraisal estimate. The IDA contributed US$ 13.89
million, 92.56 percent of the appraisal estimates, and the producers associations’
contribution was US$ 2.19 million, 347 percent of the appraisal. Activities under
Component 2, Grant Investments subprojects, accounted for the majority of resources
invested, 72.57 percent of actual total costs, compared to Component 1 (Land credit
facility), 1.11 percent, and Component 3 (Project Management), 26.30 percent. Technical
assistance, training and other operating cost for investment subprojects under Component
2 represented 6.53 percent of the actual total Project costs.

Subproject cycle and eligible investments: The Project supported PAs through
subprojects contained Investment Plans. The subproject cycle involved four stages: (1) pre-
investment stage (producers were accompanied from their organization to the preparation
of their sub-projects); (2) execution stage (including procurement of equipment and of
technical assistance); (3) operation stage and (4) monitoring stage (assessing at the closure
and measurement of the effects on their production and commercialization levels). Through
Component 2, the Project financed 237 demand-driven productive investment sub-


                                             37
projects, included the following: (i) agricultural and livestock infrastructure, 43.04 percent
of the total investment; (ii) livestock purchase, 33.97 percent; (iii) equipment and tools,
8.69 percent; (iv) agricultural and livestock inputs, 7.31 percent; and others (environment
requirements, administrative and operating costs), 6.98 percent. The productive sub-
sectors9 more largely supported by the investment were, as follow: (i) cattle (42%); (ii)
agricultural crops and cattle (24%); (iii) alternatives crops (18%); (iv) agricultural crops
(7%); (v) cattle double purpose (3.5%); (vi) goats (3.5%); (vii) wool sheep (3%); (viii) milk
(1%).

Target regions: The Project supported producers associations and its investments
subprojects in five selected municipalities of Santa Cruz Department, namely Charagua,
Minero, Pailon, Concepcion, and San Ignacio de Velasco (the last two were added to the
Project area in the Project restructuration). The largest amount of investment was located
in Charagua municipality (53.7%), follow by San Ignacio de Velasco (25%), Concepción
(10.8%), Pailon (5.8%) and Minero (4.8%).

Ex-Ante Economic and Financial Analysis

Ex-ante economic and financial analysis at appraisal: Due to the demand-driven nature
of the Project, it was not known ex-ante which specific investment subprojects would be
financed, and a precise economic and financial analysis for the Project as a whole could
not be made. The cost benefit analysis conducted during Project preparation, as presented
in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), was based on four indicative models of potential
subprojects which were to be implemented as follow: (i) sugar cane in Minero; (ii) soy and
corn in Minero; (iii) sesame and garbanzo production in Pailon; and (iv) cattle project in
the Charagua. These models were based on land acquisition through a rotating fund
capitalized by the Bank loan, 15 year land purchase repayment periods with annual interest
rates of 8 percent. In the models a one-year grace period was assumed, except for the cattle
model which required a three-year grace period. Group size was assumed to be twenty
families. Foregone family labor income in other activities was not considered because the
assumption was made that the agricultural project will be managed by two-three
individuals receiving wages. With plausible assumptions about the number and distribution
of these stylized models by municipality, the aggregate Net Present Value (NPV) of all
investment subprojects was $17.65 million and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 16
percent.

It is not possible to compare the ex-ante with the ex-post evaluation’ results, as
recalculation of the NPV and IRR at completion was not possible due to the following
reasons during Project implementation: (1) factors such as land market conditions made it
impossible to utilize land access mechanisms available under the Project, and therefore the
unavailability of the models and assumptions used at appraisal, and (2) productive systems


9
 Productive systems: (1) Cattle; (2) agricultural crops and livestock (cattle); (3) alternative crops (chia,
sesame and peanuts); (4) agricultural crops; (5) livestock (dual purpose); (6) goats; (7) Sheep; (8) milk; (9)
pork; (10) agricultural crops and fish; (11) poultry; (12) agricultural crops and poultry



                                                     38
benefited by the investment subprojects were different for those selected at appraisal, and
the number and distribution of the actual investments by municipalities finally benefited
from the Project.

Ex-post Economic and Financial Analysis

At project completion, and for the purpose of the ICR, a detailed ex-post economic and
financial analysis was prepared by an independent firm. The evaluation estimates the
returns derived from the productive investments subprojects, which was the bulk of the
resources invested (72.57%) in relation with the total resources devoted to land credit
facility (1.11%), project management (26.30%).The benefits of technical assistance and
training to producers’ organizations for the implementation of the subprojects were not
considered in the analysis because they are more difficult to measure economically, though
definitely will translate into increased productivity and production in the medium and long
term.

Methodology of the Ex-Post Analysis

A universe of 206 subprojects, which had completed physical execution and whose
productive sub-sectors had benefited at least of 1 percent of the project investment, was
defined. The universe of 206 subprojects represented 87 percent of the approved
investments. Once the universe was defined, a sample of 83 sub-projects was randomly
selected from predefined strata (productive sub-sectors and municipality) to conduct an ex-
post economic and financial analysis, and infer the results to the whole universe. The
sample of subprojects represents 38 percent of the approved investments.

The analysis of ex-post costs and benefits of the 83 producers’ subprojects was based on
the Project’s M&E system, which contains primary information on the with and without
project situation, performance of the investments and profitability of the PA. To validate
the data, field visits were conducted to some subprojects. Financial and Economic
parameters were estimated, among others: Net Present Value (NPV), at a 12.67 percent
annual discount rate; Internal Rate of Return (IRR); ratio Benefits / Cost (B/C).

Results and returns of the investments were analyzed at subproject level, aggregated by
municipality, by productive sub-sector level, and at Project as a whole. Within each sub-
sector, economic parameters and indicators are estimated for each PA as well as for average
PA and beneficiary family. To estimate aggregate returns at sub-sector level, the
incremental net income flows for the total number of PA in the analyzed sub-sector is
added, and relevant aggregated indicators calculated. To estimate aggregated impacts at
Project level, the aggregated net income flows for each sub-sector analyzed is added and
aggregated feasibility indicators are estimated for three basic scenarios: (i) considering
only the direct investment costs; (ii) including costs of component 1 and 3 proportionate to
the investment; and (iii) including all Project costs.

The cost-benefit analysis builds on a ten-year projection period after the last investments
have been carried out. As such, the reference period is 2007-2024 (with last investments



                                            39
occurring in 2014). As the Project has collected cycle of production and sales from 2008
to 2013, an average of those years is used to estimate the projected fund flows. The
investment includes the funds transferred by the Project to the PAs plus their counterpart.
To make a comparative analysis, current prices are converted into constant prices using the
GDP Deflator (Source: INE, Agriculture, Livestock, Hunting and Fishing).

The analysis focused on financial flow, applying market (private) prices, and on economic
flow that applies economic (social) or shadow prices based on a Conversation Factor of
0.885 for products, inputs and services (shadow prices calculated by deducting the 13
percent Value Added Tax (VAT) from the unit price (1/1.13=0.88) and 0.47 for non-
qualified labor (shadow price established by the National Evaluation System for Public
Investment in Bolivia). For sensitivity analysis, reduction of income level to account of
climate factors, mainly drought (technical or social/organizational aspects) and were
introduced in the different analysis.

Aggregate and Average Project Indicators

As shown Table 1, the Financial IRR (FIRR) and Financial NPV (FNPV) of the analyzed
subprojects are 18.3 percent and US$ 1.6 million respectively. Considering other Project
costs (project management proportionate to the investment analyzed), the FIRR and FNPV
are 14.9 percent and US$ 0.8 million respectively. Pailón municipality, where the
investment has been low compared to other municipalities, presents the highest FIRR
compared to the other municipalities of intervention, and reaches 26.9 percent. . The FIRR
and FNPV in San Ignacio de Velasco is 25 percent and US$ 1.3 million respectively, and
the Charagua municipality presents the lowest FIRR in relation to other municipalities,
reached 13.1 percent.

The Economic IRR and NPV of the analyzed sub-projects are 21.76 percent and US$ 2.5
million, respectively. Charagua presents the lowest EIRR respect to other municipalities,
but the EIRR for all municipalities are above the social discount rate set by the VIPFE at
12.67 percent, which means that the project is socially profitable in all municipalities and
therefore public investment in the project is justified. Minero municipality is the
municipality that has the highest EIRR, 34.4 percent, although its ENPV is low compared
to other municipalities (US$ 0.12 million); and is followed by San Ignacio de Velasco with
an EIRR of 28.7% and the highest ENPV, reaching US$ 1.58 million, and Pailon (EIRR
28.7% and ENPV US$ 0.15 million)




                                            40
      Table 1: Summary of Aggregated Evaluation Indicators for the Analyzed Sub-projects,
                                      by Municipality

                                        Financial Analysis             Economic Analysis
                                   FIRR       NPV          B/C      EIRR       NPV       B/C
                                    (%)      (US$                    (%)      (US$
                                            million)                         million)
      Charagua                     13.1%     0.054         2.48     16.5%     0.461      3.25
      Concepcion                   15.4%     0.114         2.74     17.3%     0.192      3.32
      Minero                       17.6%      0.02         1.66     34.4%     0.121      2.04
      Pailon                       26.9%     0.132         2.23     28.7%     0.157      3.03
      San Ignacio de               25.0%     1.338         2.80     28.7%     1.585      3.29
      Velasco
      TOTAL                        18.3%      1.669        2.57     21.76%     2.518     3.22


The analysis of the seven most representative sub-sectors in term of received investments
shows the following results:

       Table 2: Summary of Aggregated Evaluation Indicators for the Analyzed Subprojects,
                                   by Productive Subsector

                                            Financial Analysis            Economic Analysis
                                       FIRR       NPV        B/C       EIRR       NPV       B/C
                                        (%)      (US$                   (%)      (US$
                                                million)                        million)
   Cattle (Meat)                       11.8%     (0.10)      2.80      13.0%      0.03      3.33
   Agricultural crops and cattle       17.3%      0.19       2.23      23.9%      0.45      2.36
   Alternative crops                   36.7%      1.49       2.23      44.0%      1.74      2.56
   Agricultural crops                  12.1%    (0.004)      1.27      22.9%      0.08      1.44
   Cattle (dual purpose)               13.2%      0.04       2.64      15.6%      0.22      3.96
   Goat                                23.6%      0.15       4.14      22.8%      0.14      3.72
   Sheep                               15.4%      0.03       2.82      15.4%      0.03      3.07

In the agriculture sector, the alternative crops subprojects (sesame, chia, peanuts) present
the highest return on all subsectors financed by the Project, and have a FIRR of 36.7 percent
and an EIRR of 44 percent. However, the agricultural crops subprojects (corn, beans and
sorghum) present the lowest FIRR of 12.1 percent and EIRR of 22.9 percent. These
subprojects, mostly located in Charagua municipality, show an FIRR lower than the
discount rate. This is explained by the unfavorable climatic conditions prevailing in
Charagua, drought has prevented the development of a greater amount of crops in this
region and has reduced yields.

As for PA's livestock sub-projects show potential for positive profitability indicators along
the horizon of analysis. However, draft cattle breeding has lower rates compared to other
livestock sub-sectors’ returns. This is due to two factors: (i) the investment needed to start
these subprojects is high, especially in enabling infrastructure and facilities, and purchase
of livestock; and (ii) once the start-up investment is executed, these subprojects require a
minimum of two years to start generating revenues; therefore the cash flow is negative
during the first 2-4 years. These two factors explain the lower profitability indicators,



                                                   41
although this do not imply that subprojects breeding cattle are not positive, as shown by
the economic return and potential revenue generated by these PA's and by their families
members. Another aspect to be highlighted is that larger livestock herds (more than 70
productive heads) become highly profitable, as economy of scale is generated and justify
the initial investment in infrastructure and facilities depending on the size of the herd.

Sensitivity analysis to include the effects of drought on the analyzed subprojects has been
developed by assuming that:

   (i)       The agricultural PA from Charagua have two good years and two bad years of
             production, and in bad years they recover only 50 percent of the expected
             production;
   (ii)      The livestock PA from Charagua have lower calving rates and higher mortality
             rates compared to municipalities that do not suffer the effects of drought as
             often.

These assumptions are consistent and have been validated with technical staff of the Project
and through field visits. The sensitivity of the financial performance of sub-projects in
Charagua respect to the effects of drought is high. In a scenario that takes into account the
effects of drought, the IRR in Charagua will decrease from 13.1 percent to 9.2 percent, and
the NPV would fall from US$ 0.054 to a negative amount. However, the overall Project
returns would still be positive, but would fall by 1.1 percent falling from 18.3 percent to
17.2 percent.

Conclusions and Recommendations

The overall conclusions of the evaluation are as follow:

         The results of the ex-post cost-benefit analysis show a satisfactory overall
          performance of the implementation of the productive investment subprojects
          analyzed, an aggregated Economic IRR of 21.76 percent (considering only the
          direct investment cost of analyzed alliances). The Financial IRR of 18.3 percent
          (considering only direct investment cost of the analyzed alliances) and 14.9 percent
          (including project management costs proportionate to the investment analyzed),
          respectively, are above the opportunity cost of the investment, stated around 12.67
          percent.
         The Project investments were in order of importance (i) agricultural and livestock
          infrastructure, 43.04 percent of the total investment; (ii) livestock purchase, 33.97
          percent; (iii) equipment and tools, 8.69 percent; (iv) agricultural and livestock
          inputs, 7.31 percent; and others (environment requirements, administrative and
          operating costs), 6.98 percent.
         The productive sub-sectors more largely supported by the investment were:
          (i) cattle (42%); (ii) agricultural crops and cattle (24%); (iii) alternatives crops
          (18%); (iv) agricultural crops (7%); (v) cattle double purpose (3.5%); (vi) goats
          (3.5%); (vii) hair sheep (3%); (viii) milk (1%).



                                               42
   More than the half of the investment was located in Charagua and about 70 percent
    of total investments were directed to subprojects for cattle. However Charagua
    presents the lowest IRR in relation to other municipalities, reached 13.1 percent.
    This is explained by the following main reasons: (1) lower incremental returns from
    investments in cattle (meat and dairy production) due to the longer gestation period
    of these investments; (2) climatic factors affected the agricultural crops subprojects
    (corn, beans and sorghum) performance, e.g. the drought faced by Charagua during
    Project implementation prevented the development of a greater volume of crops in
    this region and reduced yields; (3) productive associations show to have less
    entrepreneurial skills than their counterparts in the municipalities of Conception
    and San Ignacio de Velasco.
   Out of the seven most representative sub-sectors, alternative crops stand out as the
    subsector generating the highest incremental returns at Project level, followed by
    goat and then by the subprojects with a mix system producing agricultural crops
    and cattle also demonstrated profitability, homogeneously around 17 percent for
    the financial rate of return.
   Cattle subprojects require high investments in infrastructure, facilities, acquisition
    of livestock enabling environment, pastures and also need at least a period of two
    years from investment to start generating income (two years to enter the market).
    These are the main reasons why the financial evaluation for this item is the lower.
   The sensitivity of the financial performance of productive Investments in Charagua
    respect to the effects of drought is very high. Therefore, provision of water (water
    sources and distribution mechanism) is essential to guarantee productive
    development in Charagua.




                                         43
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Malcolm Childress          Sr. Land Admin. Specialist          LCSAR   TTL
Jorge A. Muñoz             Sr. Land Admin. Specialist          LCSAR   Land Policy
George Ledec               Sr. Environmental Specialist        LCSEN   Environment
Alonso Zarzar              Sr. Social Development Specialist   LCSEO   Social
David Tuchscheider         Sr. Rural Development Specialist    LCSAR   Rural Development
Patricia McKenzie          Sr. Financial Specialist            LCSFM   Financial Mgmt.
Lourdes Linares            Financial Specialist                LCSFM   Financial Mgmt.
Luis Schwarz               Financial Specialist                LCSFM   Financial Mgmt.
Miram Cespedes             Procurement Officer                 LCSPT   Procurement
Alvaro Larrea              Procurement Specialist              LCSPT   Procurement
                                                                       Credit and Private
Michael Goldberg           Financial Sector Specialist         LCOPR
                                                                       Sector Dev.
Solange Alialli            Lawyer                              LEGLA   Legal Issues
Fabiola Altimari           Lawyer                              LEGLA   Legal Issues
Rolande Pryce              Lawyer                              LEGLA   Legal Issues
                                                                       Operations and
Teresa Roncal              Operations Analyst                  LCSAR
                                                                       Planning
Leila Diana Sarquis        Project Assistant                   LCSAR   Program Support
Supervision/ICR
Malcolm Childress          Sr. Land Admin. Specialist          GURDR Former TTL
Enrique Pantoja            Sr. Land Admin. Specialist          GSURR TTL
                                                                     Operations and
Teresa M. Roncal           Operations Analyst                  GFADR
                                                                     Planning
Maria Ruth Llanos Vda De                                             Social Safeguards
                           Consultant                          GSURR
Navarro                                                              and Gender
George Campos Ledec        Lead Ecologist                      GENDR Environment
Stamatis Kotouzas          Junior Professional Associate       GSURR Land Policy
Marco Antonio Zambrano     Consultant
                                                               GENDR Environment
Chavez
Francisco Javier Obreque   Consultant
                                                               GFADR Rural Development
Arqueros
Lara Chinarro              Consultant                                Agriculture and
                                                               GSURR
                                                                     Livestock
Carlos Francisco Siezar    Consultant                                Credit and Private
                                                               GFADR
                                                                     Sector Dev.
Maria Manuela Maria        Consultant                          GSURR Communication
Maria Lucy Giraldo         Consultant                          GGODR Procurement
Jose Yukio Rasmussen       Senior Procurement Specialist
                                                               GGODR Procurement
Kuroiwa



                                            44
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro      Senior Procurement Specialist      GGODR Procurement
Patricia De la Fuente Hoyes   Sr Financial Management Specialist GGODR Financial Mgmt.
Lourdes Consuelo Linares      Sr Financial Management Specialist
                                                                 GGODR Financial Mgmt.
Loza
Juan Marcelo Berthin          Financial Management                     Financial
                                                              GGODR
Heredia                       Specialist                               Management
Fabiola Altimari Montiel      Senior Counsel                  LEGLE    Legal Issues
Ketty Morales                 Program Assistant               LCSAR    Program Support
Miriam Cespedes               Program Assistant               GGODR    Program Support
Beatriz Elena Franco          Program Assistant               LCC1A    Program Support
Patricia Gutierrez            Program Assistant               LCCBO    Program Support


b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                 USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                           45.43                   206.75
  FY06                                           15.94                    69.87
  FY07                                           18.33                    73.25
  FY08                                           12.59                    65.75
                              Total:             92.29                   415.62
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                         20.74                     105.53
  FY09                                         35.25                     146.66
  FY10                                         34.67                     164.65
  FY11                                         31.55                     145.74
  FY12                                         21.58                     106.67
  FY13                                         19.41                     110.19
  FY14                                         13.11                     102.02
  FY15                                          6.55                      52.43
                              Total:          182.86                     933.69




                                            45
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The independent final evaluation included a beneficiary satisfaction survey with the Project.
The survey asked questions about participation, communication, benefits, technical
assistance (TA), and functioning and support received by the Productive Association (PA).
The survey was conducted as part of the field validation exercise with PAs. The firm
selected 36 PAs based on a representative sample that stratified PAs by municipality and
type of investment. The firm conducted the satisfaction survey among the PA associates
who were present during the field visit. This strategy resulted in 58 surveys, distributed as
follow: 23 respondents from Charagua, 9 from Concepcion, 4 from Minero, 7 from Pailon,
and 15 from San Ignacio de Velasco.

The communication strategy was considered a crucial starting point to ensure the
beneficiary-driven nature of the Project. The survey asked respondents about the first time
that they learned about the Project. The main sources of information were municipal
projects and programs (32.8%), communal assembly (22.4%), and neighbors (20.7%).
Umbrella organizations and media were not a significant source of information for
beneficiaries.

Table 2: Source of Information about the Project

                                                        % of Responses
 Municipality Responses       Umbrella       Communal  Local                        Project Other
                                                                 Media   Neighbor
                             Organization    Assembly Authority                      staff Program
 Charagua          23            0.0%          34.8%    0.0%     0.0%      8.7%      0.0%   56.5%
 Concepción         9           22.2%          11.1%    0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     11.1%   55.6%
 Minero             4            0.0%           0.0%    0.0%     0.0%    100.0%      0.0%    0.0%
 Pailón             7            0.0%          42.9%    0.0%     0.0%     57.1%      0.0%    0.0%
 San Ignacio       15           13.3%           6.7%   26.7%     6.7%     13.3%     26.7%    6.7%
 Average                        6.9%           22.4%   6.9%      1.7%    20.7%       8.6%   32.8%


After learning about the Project, 52 percent decided to join it during a communal assembly
and 48 percent during a PA meeting. In Charagua, Concepcion, and San Ignacio the
Velasco more than half of beneficiaries decided to participate in the Project during a
communal assembly is a reflection of its inclusive approach and adherence to customary
practices.

Once beneficiaries joined a PA, the next step was the selection of an investment for the
sub-project. In Minero, Pailon, and San Ignacio de Velasco, all investment sub-projects
were selected by the members of the PAs. In Concepcion, 78 percent were selected by the
PAs and 22 percent by the communal assembly. In Charagua, 48 percent were selected by
the communal assembly, 26 percent by the PAs, and 17 percent by another collective
mechanism such as a communal authority. The main reason for joining the Project was to
improve income, followed by a desire to solve the problem of agricultural and livestock
production.




                                                   46
Table 3: Characteristics of Decision-Making Process

                                Decision to Participate                      Selection of Sub-project
 Municipality Responses          Communal                          Communal                             Other
                                                       PA                                PA
                                 Assembly                            Assemly
 Charagua*              23                   52%         48%                  26%            48%                17%
 Concepción              9                   78%         22%                  78%            22%                 0%
 Minero                  4                    0%       100%                 100%              0%                 0%
 Pailón                  7                   43%         57%                100%              0%                 0%
 San Ignacio            15                   53%         47%                100%              0%                 0%
 Average                           51.6%             48.3%            69.7%            23.2%            6.9%
*There are two missing answers for selection of sub-projects in Charagua.

Overall, beneficiaries recognized that the Project helped improve access to land, TA, inputs
for agriculture and livestock production, and enhanced production. Beneficiaries, however,
do not think that the Project has provided access to markets, increased income, or improved
livelihoods. Since livestock sub-projects have not completed their productive cycle, this
response is to be expected. Additional years are required for beneficiaries to perceive these
improvements.

Table 4: What Improved with the Project?

          Category                                             % of Respondents
                                        Agreed                 Partially Agreed                 Disagreed
 Production                   58.6%                        34.5%                        6.9%
 Access to land               62.1%                        15.5%                        22.4%
 Access to services           69.0%                        27.6%                        3.4%
 Access to inputs             65.5%                        24.1%                        10.3%
 Access to markets            10.3%                        74.1%                        15.5%
 Income                       43.1%                        51.7%                        5.2%
 Livelihood                   22.4%                        74.1%                        3.4%


The majority of beneficiaries rated the Project as very positive or positive. Nonetheless,
beneficiaries complained about the problems experienced with the Cooperative San
Gabriel and the change of PCU coordinators, which in their opinion affected their
operations. Also, the perception about the Project’s satisfaction of needs and expectations
did not achieve the end target of 80 percent. Only 71 percent of beneficiaries responded to
be highly satisfied or satisfied with the Project in this regard; 26 percent responded to be
partially satisfied; and 3 percent as unsatisfied. Charagua had the highest level of
dissatisfaction with the Project’s fulfillment of needs.

Table 5: Level of Satisfaction with the Project

     Municipality                                            % of Respondents
                            Very Positive             Positive              Neutral                 Negative
 Charagua                                4%                     87%                     9%                      0%
 Concepcion                              0%                    100%                     0%                      0%
 Minero                                 50%                     60%                     0%                      0%
 Pailon                                 57%                     43%                     0%                      0%
 San Ignacio                            53%                     47%                     0%                      0%




                                                        47
Beneficiaries have a high level of satisfaction with how their PA functions. 72 percent of
responded rated PA functioning as very good or good, 26 percent as regular, and 2 percent
as poor. The main reason for a negative rating was the internal problems experienced by a
few PAs. The majority of respondents also considered that their individual performance
was satisfactory. Only in Charagua a few respondents rated their performance as poor.

Table 6: Perception of the PA's Functioning

     Municipality                                    % of Respondents
                            Very Good         Good                  Regular         Poor
 Charagua                               35%            43%                    17%          4%
 Concepcion                              0%            56%                    44%          0%
 Minero                                  0%            25%                    75%          0%
 Pailon                                 43%            43%                    14%          0%
 San Ignacio                            40%            40%                    20%          0%


In sum, the survey confirmed the positive perception beneficiaries have about project
management and activities as well as the uncertainties about material improvements to their
conditions. The survey also confirmed the difficult situation faced by beneficiaries in
Charagua.




                                              48
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                   49
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

The Bolivia Land for Agricultural Development Project was conceived as a pilot. Project
design had a solid concept, but it had to be modified during implementation, particularly
Component 1 (Access to Land). Land values in the project area, particularly in the
municipalities of Minero and Pailon, were much higher than estimated by the land market
study, mainly due to the development of agro-industry. An amendment to the DCA
introduced three alternative land access mechanisms. The right of use mechanism in TCOs
and TCs was the most suitable for agricultural investments because it had land tenure
security.

Context. The Project preparation and implementation spanned over three administrations
with different approaches to rural development. Between 2004 and 2005, the GOB had an
approach based on market development and export promotions. Since 2006, the GOB
emphasized food sovereignty and agrarian reform for the rural poor. The Project was the
only government program to create new mechanisms for land access during this period.

Achievement of PDO. The Project exceeded most of its development indicators. The main
achievements were: (i) validating the mechanism for improving access to productive land
in TCOs and TCs; (ii) investing in productive sub-projects; (iii) increasing the value of
productive assets; (iv) increasing household income; (v) obtaining an acceptable rate of
internal return; (vi) organizing producers into Producers’ Associations (PA); (vii)
increasing participation and decision-making power of women and youth; (viii) developing
capacities in planning, monitoring, accountability, and social auditing; and (ix) organizing
five Local Rural Development Councils (CODALs). In spite of these achievements, the
Project was faced with many challenges that prevented the development of its original
focus on land acquisition. Overall, the achievement of PDO is considered moderately
satisfactory.

Sustainability. The need for capacity building and technical assistance was high. The
Project supported the PAs in developing their organizational, planning, administrative,
technical, and commercialization skills. This training, coupled with their individual and
collective know-how, would allow them to reach maturity in their investments.
Nonetheless, there are still some risks to sustainability. By the time of project closing, the
majority of PAs had just finished the investment stage and started the productive stage.
Some PAs only received TA for two years. The discontinuance of training and TA could
put at risk the production. Climatic risks are also an important factor affecting sustainability.
In turn, the organizational sustainability could also be at risk because beneficiaries have
little experience working in associations and are more used to household production
models. The challenge ahead for the Ministry of Rural Development and Lands would be
to continue providing technical assistance in the areas of production, administration, and
access to markets as well as assisting PAs in mitigating climate risks.

Bank Performance. During preparation, the Bank team showed flexibility and willingness
to introduce changes proposed by the GOB. Project supervision was constant and
adequately supported the development of the Project and decision-making based on



                                              50
implementation experience. The performance and supervision of FAO-TCI was important
for the development of the M&E system, TA strategy, investment operations, as well as
the supervision of the final evaluation. In addition, FAO-TCI financed a new land market
study in 2012. The Bank team provided advice based on the direct Project experience and
knowledge of other countries in Latin America. Overall, Bank performance was
satisfactory.

Borrower Performance. The GOB could have provided more support to the Project.
There were significant delays in the processing of Supreme Decrees to declare the credit
effectiveness and approve its amendments. The MDRyT responded adequately to Project
needs and complied with the agreements reach with the PCU and the Bank during
supervision missions. The MDRyT was a constant source of support and dynamism to the
Project. Supervision by the Vice-Ministry of Lands was not always consistent due to the
high rotation of vice-ministers during implementation. The Project was virtually closed in
2010, but project management improved significantly after approval of the first amendment
to the DCA. Overall, Borrow performance is considered moderately satisfactory.

Lessons Learned. The main lesson learned include: (i) importance of preparing and
updating a land market study to provide information about land values; (ii) demonstrating
the feasibility of market-oriented investments in TCOs and TCs via productive
associations; (iii) preparing a technical protocol for purchasing livestock to replace the rule
of thumb method; and (iv) opening institutional spaces in the CODALs for planning the
development of indigenous peoples.




                                              51
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

n/a




                                    52
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Government Documents
  - Law 1715 (1996)
  - Law 3545 (2006)
  - National Development Plan (2006).
  - Supreme Decree 28160 (2005).
  - Supreme Decree 28734 (2006).
  - Supreme Decree 29215 (2007).
  - Supreme Decree 794 (2011).
  - Technical Assistance Background Study (2005).
  - Financial-Economic Background Study (2005).
  - Production Model Background Study (2005).
  - Environmental Study (2004).
  - Social Assessment (2005).
  - Land Market Background Study (2005).
  - Operational Manual (2012).
  - Ex-post Financial and Economic Analysis of Investment Sub-Projects, Gerenssa
      (September 2014).
  - Independent Final Evaluation, Strategy Advisors for Government Reform (SAX)
      (September 2014).
  - Implementation Completion Report, Ministry of Rural Development and Lands
      (October 2014).

World Bank Documents
  - Project Appraisal Document (September 27, 2007).
  - Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for the Period FY12-FY15 (January
      21, 2014).

Food and Agriculture Organization
   - Land Market Study (2012).




                                       53
MAP




      54
