                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14829

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 10/08/2015

               Country: Bolivia
             Project ID: P087925                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Bolivia Land For             Project Costs (US$M):                      15.63               16.08
                         Agricultural
                         Development Project.
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      15.00               13.51
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                              10/30/2007
                                                                Closing Date:            06/29/2012        09/15/2014
          Sector(s):       General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (80%); Sub-national government
                           administration (20%)
          Theme(s):        Land administration and management (29%); Rural markets (29%); Social safety nets (28%);
                           Indigenous peoples (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ebru Karamete              Ridley Nelson          Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The project development objectives mentioned in the Credit Agreement are (p. 25) "to assist the Borrower in: (a)
establishing an alternative decentralized beneficiary-driven land distribution mechanism for organized landless or poor
farmers; and (b) supporting productive investments thereon to allow increased and more sustainable livelihoods for
such beneficiaries.

The PAD statement of objectives is slightly different - "to establish a decentralized beneficiary-driven land access
mechanism that allows organized landless or poor farmers to acquire suitable agricultural lands and implement
investment subprojects which enable beneficiaries to enter into a sustainable, higher-income, livelihood path, in so
doing generating knowledge about land access and land-related productive investments which contributes to
addressing the issues nationally" (PAD p. 4).

This Review is based on the statement of objectives in the Credit Agreement.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:
  The Project had three components:

1. Land Acquisition (Appraisal Estimate US $ 5.22 million , Actual US$ 0.18 million)
The component aimed to finance land purchases and potentially long-term leases in the future through a line of credit
managed by the Productive Development Bank and executed by local financial institutions. Productive Associations of
project beneficiaries would be responsible for repayment of the land acquisition loans and the acquired lands would
serve as collateral. However, the land acquisition mechanism was not implemented due to lack of eligible land with
affordable prices and the Land Credit Facility could not be established. During the restructuring in 2010, three
additional land access mechanisms were included: leasing agreements, share-cropping agreements, and land use
rights. As the project did not finance any land acquisition, actual cost of the component was only 4 % of the appraisal
estimate. Actual expenditures were used for consultant services and counterpart funds covered payments in leasing
contracts.

2. Productive Investments (Appraisal Estimate US $ 8.46 million, Actual US$ 11.67 million)
This component was to provide matching grants for infrastructure and productive investments
on the acquired lands. Since there was no new land acquisition mechanism the grants were provided on investment
sub-projects in infrastructure, and productive assets. In 2012 the project area expanded and two new Municipalities
were included.


3. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (Appraisal Estimate US $ 1.95 million, Actual US$ 4.23 million)
The component supported setting up of a Project Coordination Unit based in Santa Cruz that carried out coordination,
administration, financial management and M&E. The ICR stated that (p. 26) technical assistance costs were also
included under this component until a new disbursement category was created in 2013, but it was not clear what the
size of the actual costs for the project management and M&E.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Costs:
Total cost estimated at appraisal was of US$15.63 million and actual cost at closing was reported as US$16.08 million
(ICR p. 26).
Financing:
The original IDA credit was SDR9.8 million (US$15.00 million equivalent). SDR9.56 million (US$13.51 million
equivalent) was disbursed and SDR0.24 million (US$ 0.34 million equivalent) was left un-disbursed (Client
Connection website). The ICR did not provide any explanation for the un-disbursed amount.

Borrower Contribution :
There was no Borrower contribution. However, it was expected at appraisal that producer Associations would provide
US$0.63 million. Actual contribution from the associations was reported as considerably higher with US$2.19 million.
Dates:
The original closing date of June 29, 2012 was extended three times to September 15, 2014 for the following reasons:
(i) The main reason was that project effectiveness was significantly delayed (1.5 years between approval and
effectiveness) due to a legal change in financial regulations that affected the project's two tier structure for the Land
Credit facility; one of the conditions for effectiveness was signing an administrative agreement with the Productive
Development Bank and since the government could not meet this condition due to changes in financial regulations a
waiver had to be agreed upon. So the first extension approved in May 2012 was to provide sufficient time to finalize
sub-project investments especially in the two new Municipalities. (ii) Two additional three month extensions were
mainly to improve the sustainability of the Producer Associations and to complete the final evaluation for the project.

Restructuring: The project went through three Level II restructurings during which the PDO was not changed but the
project structure was revised significantly in April 2010 and the results matrix was reformulated in January 2013 after
the Mid Term Review. As the revisions during the 2010 restructuring were quite comprehensive, changing the whole
direction of the project, a split evaluation is warranted, taking into consideration the date of this restructuring. With the
restructuring in 2013, the following changes were madeon the results matrix reflecting the changes made to the
project design in 2010: (i) The indicators related to the earlier model such as farm acquisition were dropped. (ii) The
project area was expanded therefore targets for some of the indicators were increased (number of local decision
making and monitoring entities were increased from 3 to 5 and number of Producer Associations were increased from
120 to 190). (iii) The target for the indicator- increase in family income was reduced from 50 percent to 20 percent;.
(iv) A new indicator was added to better measure the change in value of productive assets.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Since the PDO did not change during the restructurings both the original and revised objectives were rated as High.
The project development objectives were highly relevant to country priorities and strategies. During the time of project
appraisal the history of ethnic exclusion and control by a small elite left Bolivia with a deeply fractured society had led
to very high levels of poverty and inequality. In 2002, about 84 percent of rural inhabitants were income-poor and 67
percent lived in extreme poverty (PAD p. 1). The new administration, elected in 2005, represented groups that had
been excluded for centuries and claimed to give more support to these neglected classes of society.

The project development objectives were relevant to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (FY 04-08) objectives of
reducing inequality and exclusion. Preparation of a US$15 million IDA program in early FY05 on Land Reform was
included in the 2 year plan of the CAS. The project development objectives remained relevant to the Country
Partnership Strategy (FY12-15), particularly the Result Area- Sustainable Productive Development and the specific
goal of reducing extreme poverty in rural areas by increasing agricultural productivity.

The ICR on page 3 noted that the government prepared a policy framework on agrarian reform via the newly
established Ministry of Rural Development and Lands. A new law was enacted in November 2006, with the aim of
improving equity in the distribution and access to agricultural land that targeted indigenous and peasant communities.
The policy promoted access to land through the establishment of new settlements in public lands as well as
consolidation of rights in the Indigenous Peoples' Territories and Communal Lands. The project supported this policy
framework by piloting a participatory land access mechanism. Since there was concentration of under-utilized
lowlands in Santa Cruz department (region), it was decided to include Municipalities from this region.

b. Relevance of Design:
Original Design, Modest.

The project development objectives were in general clear and monitorable but project components were only partially
aligned with the project objectives. The first part of the objective- establishing an alternative decentralized
beneficiary-driven land distribution mechanism for organized landless - did not reflect the fact that the project was a
pilot trying to test a different mechanism from a menu of options. Thus, the proposed project activities were partially
relevant. The first component that was designed to serve the achievement of the first objective was initially designed
to finance land purchases through a line of credit. Project costs were allocated accordingly. However, other land
access mechanisms such as leasing, sharecropping and land use rights were missing in the initial design and these
were introduced with the Level II restructuring in 2010. . In addition, this design was not backed by sound diagnostics
(see section 8 a), i.e. did not take into consideration some important characteristics of the land market such as
availability of land based on required land sizes and prices. Also the geographic targeting proved to be weak. The
second part of the objective- supporting productive investments thereon to allow increased and more sustainable
livelihoods for such beneficiaries- was more realistic and Component 2, through the use of matching grants on
infrastructure and other productive investments, was linked to achieving it. However, adequate capacity building
activities for the producer organizations, as well as support for market linkages for sustainable livelihood generation
was lacking in the project design.

Revised Design, Substantial.

Seeing that the first component design did not work, in April 2010, , the project introduced additional land access
mechanisms (leasing, share-cropping and land use rights) and Component 1 costs were reallocated to Component 2.
This revision changed the direction of the project as it did not limit land access to one method and served the needs of
the indigenous population with alternative mechanisms. The results framework reflecting these changes was
introduced only in 2013 restructuring after the Mid Term Review. The results framework for the original design was in
general clear and linked, and the results framework for the revised design became linked after 2013; ie. the outcome
indicators were relevant to measure the achievement of the objective and the intermediate outcome indicators
reflected anticipated project implementation progress.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The project had two objectives: (i) establishing an alternative decentralized beneficiary-driven land distribution
mechanism for organized landless or poor farmers; and (ii) supporting productive investments thereon to allow
increased and more sustainable livelihoods for such beneficiaries.

(i) Establishing an alternative decentralized beneficiary -driven land distribution mechanism for organized landless or
poor farmers.

ORIGINAL PROJECT :

The first objective under the original project is rated Modest .
Outputs:
The project helped to establish 237 producer associations (exceeding the target of 190) (ICR p. 31)
The project did not finance any land acquisition as originally intended.
Outcome:
 The original design emphasized the importance of establishing a mechanism to redistribute highly productive
agricultural land held under individual private ownership. This was initially planned to be achieved through acquisition
of private land. However, the ICR noted (p. 30) that the land acquisition mechanism faced several challenges: (i) the
credit line could not be established; (ii) the supply of eligible private land for purchase was limited; and (iii) land values
significantly increased putting prices beyond the Project’s financing parameters. Therefore, this mechanism could not
be implemented and the project had no impact on this other land tenure issue.

Thus, the achievement of this objective is rated as Modest.

REVISED PROJECT:

The first objective under the revised project is rated Substantial .

Outputs:
The project helped 2,891 beneficiaries to gain access to land (exceeding the target of 2,200 families), which
corresponds to approximately 11,488 direct beneficiaries (These numbers are estimated based on the assumption of
10 households per producer association and 5 people per household) (ICR p. 31)
The project facilitated access to 151,579 ha of approved land (exceeding the target of 115,000 ha), out of which 87
% were located in Indigenous Peoples' Territory, 12 % in Communal Lands and 0.5 % located in private lands (ICR p.
30).

Outcome:
After the restructuring, the project focused on establishing land use rights in Indigenous Peoples' Territory, and
Communal Lands and three new mechanisms were introduced, which are leasing, share-cropping and land use rights.
The project piloted and showed that the land use right mechanism had potential.

The method that was primarily used was the land use rights mechanism (99.5 % of all distributed land and 0.5 % of
land was allocated either using leasing or sharecropping method). The land use rights mechanism was available for
members of Indigenous Peoples' Territory or Communal Land only and land held in such areas was collective
property according to the 1996 agrarian reform law. Producer Associations received land use rights for carrying out
investment sub-projects. This was equivalent to long-term lease contract but the leases were free and for an
indeterminate time period. The continuation for holding the lease was continuation of the investment project.

(ii) Supporting productive investments thereon to allow increased and more sustainable livelihoods for such
beneficiaries.

Both the original and revised project was rated Modest, as project restructuring did not include revisions on this
objective.

Inputs:
The project allocated US$9.73 million for sub-projects, 78 % from project grants and 22 % from beneficiary
contributions.

Outputs:
The project provided grants to 237 producer associations for investments in sub-projects on livestock (69 % of
sub-projects), agriculture (12 %), agro-forestry (11 %), and other (8 %) such as aquaculture, dairy, poultry and
horticulture (ICR p. 32).
The project trained 3,981 beneficiaries. Women accounted for 38 % of participants (exceeding the target of 20 % for
women participants). However, the ICR did not provide any information on the subject matter for these trainings, who
benefited from them and whether they were sufficient and helped to improve skills and knowledge (ICR p. 33).

Outcome:
According to the financial and economic analysis based on a random sample of 83 producer associations, the family
income increased by 54 percent compared to a baseline as a result of the investment sub-projects (exceeding both
the original target of 50 percent and revised target of 20 percent). However the ICR reported that there was a wide
range of variation (income increase ranged from 16 percent to 96 percent). The ICR did not provide the income
increase figures disaggregated by sub-investment groups, also no control group comparison was provided to ensure
there was adequate consideration for a counter-factual to the project.
In terms of increase in value of productive assets for agricultural investments, family assets increased by US$122,
or a 15 % increase compared to the baseline (the same as the target of 15 % increase). For livestock investments
however, families on average had an asset loss of US$78, when the cost of livestock acquisition (project grant) was
counted. The ICR reported that (p. 33) this underperformance was in part explained by the drought events in
Charagua in 2012-2013, as well as lack of sufficient time to measure the impact of cattle investments. These
comprised 54 % of of all sub-project investments (ICR p.32). However, a majority of sub-projects were on livestock
investments (69 %) which raises concerns about the success of the project in terms of creating livelihoods. Confirming
this point, according to an independent beneficiary survey (based on a sample of 58 beneficiaries from 36 producer
organizations), the ICR reported that beneficiaries only partially thought that the Project had provided increased
incomes or improved livelihoods. The beneficiaries also pointed out that support for market linkages was lacking or
limited. For example, only 43 percent of the beneficiaries reported that they agreed their income improved, and 53
percent said their income only partially improved and 22 percent reported that their livelihoods improved, and 74
percent said their livelihoods only partially improved; in terms of market linkages only 10 percent reported they agreed
they had market linkages, 74 percent said they had partial market linkages and 15 percent said they had no market
linkages.
There were also concerns in terms of sustainability of the outcome. The ICR reported that (p. 20), producer
organizations are likely to face challenges maintaining production from the investment sub-projects. This point is
linked to the sufficiency of the TA provided to the PAs, as well as problems in effectively selecting the right areas and
right sub-project investments for support (for details see Section 7). If areas that are prone to drought are to be
selected then sub-project investments should be accompanied by effective water distribution mechanisms.

Because of these weaknesses the achievement of the objective is rated as Modest.

 5. Efficiency:
   Both the original and revised efficiency was rated as Modest. At appraisal, the ex-ante financial analysis was based
on indicative models of potential sub-projects that acquired land through a loan with a 15-year repayment period at an
8 percent annual interest rate. The aggregate ex ante Financial Net Present Value (FNPV) of all investment
sub-projects was estimated at $17.65 million and the Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) at 16 percent. A
comparison of ex-ante and ex-post economic analysis was not possible as the land acquisition mechanism was not
implemented, and also the actual investment sub-projects were different than those included at appraisal due to the
demand driven nature of the project. .

The ex-post analysis was based on a random sample of 82 sub-projects drawn from a pre-defined universe
(representing 87 % of the projects). The data in the M&E system was used to analyze with and without project
situations. Results were calculated at the sub-project level, and aggregated by sub-sector level and municipality. A
ten-year cash flow projection with a discount rate of 12.67 percent (the official rate in Bolivia) was used. Financial IRR
analysis applied market prices and economic rate of return used shadow prices by deducting VAT from the unit price.

Financial IRR and Financial NPV considering all project costs was 14.9 % and US$0.8 million respectively, a modest
rate of return particularly when sensitivity analysis showed that it could be significantly lower when drought is
persistent. The Economic IRR and NPV considering only the direct investment costs for the sub-projects are higher
with 21.8 % and 2.5 million respectively. Highest returns in terms of individual activities were for alternative Charagua.
The overall IRR would fall by 1.1 %. The ICR noted that the return performance was greatest for crops (with 37 %
financial IRR), followed by goats (with financial IRR of 24 %).

Agricultural crops and cattle showed the lowest IRRs (financial IRRs less than the discount rate with rates 11.8 % for
cattle and 12.1 % for agricultural crops). This is important because a substantial amount of investments were on these
areas with cattle sub-projects comprising 54 % of the investments and agriculture sub-projects comprising 12 % of all
the sub-project investments (ICR p.32). The ICR explained that (p. 43) these low rates were mainly due to: drought
that prevailed in Charagua municipality that had more than half of the investments. Also, the ICR noted that cattle
sub-projects required a high amount of investment in infrastructure, facilities and livestock enabling environment.
Pastures also required at least two years from investment to start generating income, this also partially explained why
return rates for cattle was low. Overall, the economic analysis suggests modest efficiency.

The ICR conducted a sensitivity analysis and one scenario tried to estimate the effect of severe drought in Charagua.
In this scenario, the financial IRR would decline from 13 % to 9.2 % and NPV would become negative in essential in
order to guarantee productive development in such areas.
The economic efficiency of sub-projects shows that although the overall financial IRR is higher than the discount rate,
it may be insufficient to accommodate frequent adverse weather events. The selected investment sub-projects (with
54 % of investments in cattle) that require a significant amount of investment and a long implementation period for
payback, and those in risky areas susceptible to drought (half of the investments were in drought-prone Charagua)
may not have been the most suitable investments for risk averse beneficiaries.

The project initially encountered long delays that negatively impacted its operational efficiency. The Project's
effectiveness was delayed by 1.5 years due to legal changes and after effectiveness there were further delays that
finally required amendment to the development credit agreement. Overall the project closing date had to be extended
for approximately two and a half years.

Due to concerns about the economic robustness of investment sub-projects in general as well as operational
inefficiencies, the efficiency of the project is rated as Modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       Yes                                       16%                                     100%

    ICR estimate                    Yes                                       15%                                     87%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Original Project Outcome :
Unsatisfactory. The achievement of the original outcome had significant shortcomings. Relevance of objectives was
rated high, however relevance of design was modest as project components were only partially aligned. The
achievement of both objectives was modest; i.e. the land distribution mechanism that was initially planned to be
achieved through acquisition of private land, could not be implemented. Also the livelihood improvements via the
sub-projects were limited and of questionable sustainability. Economic efficiency was modest due to low or borderline
financial rate of returns for many sub-projects as well as administrative and operational inefficiencies

Revised Project Outcome :

Moderately Satisfactory . The achievement of the revised outcome had minor shortcomings. Relevance of objectives
was rated high, and relevance of design was substantial as Component 1 was revised to include alternative land
access mechanisms that could be easily implemented. The achievement of the first objective under the revised
project was substantial as the project was able to implement a land access mechanism by establishing land use rights
in Indigenous Peoples' Territories. Economic efficiency was modest due to low or borderline financial rate of returns
for many sub-projects as well as administrative and operational inefficiencies.

Overall Project Outcome :
The combined outcome rating of a restructured project is weighted according to the proportion of the Credit that was
disbursed before and after the restructuring, in this case, in 2010. As the original project had disbursed US$ 3.09
million, or 23 % of the credit, the combined outcome rating is moderately satisfactory . Overall, the project exhibited
moderate shortcomings, and while the performance was improved dramatically as a consequence of the
restructurethe project was unable to establish a self-sustained land distribution mechanism that could be scaled up.
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  The risk to development outcome rating is assessed as significant for two main reasons:

(i) The sustainability of sub-project investments is reportedly in question. The ICR noted that (p. 20) the independent
evaluation results indicated that 32 percent of the Producer Associations believed that they did not have adequate
conditions to continue with the sub-project investments. The highest risk among the sub-project investments was in
Charagua municipality due to poor climatic conditions and these investments corresponded to more than 50 percent
of the Producer Associations and more than 80 percent of the land. Also the economic analysis showed poor financial
rates of return for investments in cattle and agricultural crops, that together comprised 66 % of the sub-project
investments. The ICR reported that (p. 21) as a mitigation measure, the PCU assisted each Producer Organization in
implementing a graduation plan, which included a set of conditions that the beneficiaries must have achieved before
the project ended. The project team subsequently stated that the quality of technical assistance was good but the
duration of this support needed to be longer.

(ii) The ICR also noted that (p. 20) there were no arrangements to continue and expand the mechanism piloted under
the project. The Government needs to allocate funds for the matching grants and the technical assistance. But the
project team stated that the government decided to address other pressing priorities for the time being.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Project design was based upon other country experience such as Honduras, Guatemala, and Mexico on
‘willing seller-willing buyer’ land access projects and specifically attempted to replicate the successful experience
of Brazil. A land market study was prepared in order to collect data on land sales in the Department of Santa
Cruz and inform on financial parameters for land acquisition under the Land Credit Facility. However, the analysis
was not thorough enough to assess the replicability of the Brazilian model in Bolivia; specifically it failed to
account for different and changing conditions in the land market, lack of availability of the land parcels in 50-100
ha range, and the legal restriction preventing the transfer of parcels under 50 ha. The study also failed to
adequately accommodate the land price risk which is further analyzed below. .

The Project's geographic targeting of the Department of Santa Cruz region proved to be problematic. The ICR
noted that (p. 6) the region was becoming an agro-industrial area and it was questionable how feasible would the
land acquisition mechanism be for small farmers in such an area of changing land demand. In addition, the
selection of the Project area was controversial due to the difficult relationship between the central government and
regional groups in the Department.

The Project design included a beneficiary-driven, decentralized process that was conducive to building the
productive capacity of the beneficiaries. However, as explained in Section 3b, the initial design did not reflect the
fact that the project was trying to test a different mechanism from a menu of options. The first component was
initially designed to finance land purchases through a line of credit, and no other options were available. Options
such as leasing, sharecropping and land use rights by integrating Communal Lands and Indigeneous People's
Territories were later included after the MTR. In addition, adequate capacity building activities for the producer
organizations, as well as support for market linkages for sustainable livelihood generation was lacking in the
project design.

The risk assessment at appraisal recognized that the Project would only address one dimension of the land tenure
situation in Bolivia, which was the redistribution of land already in the private domain.
During the implementation period, the GOB pursued a parallel effort to regularize and redistribute land. The ICR
argued that (p. 7) by excluding these activities from the Project, there was a greater chance to pilot innovative land
access mechanisms and minimize reputational risk. However, this proved to be wrong and the project
restructuring eventually had to include other land access mechanisms. Therefore, the initial risk assessment on
this aspect, reflected in initial design, was inadequate. Furthermore, the project preparation did not identify the
supply of land and changing land market situation as a risk.

The project's effectiveness was delayed for 1.5 years due to changes in the financial regulations. The Bank
agreed to a waiver but this process took time.

The results framework was sufficient with clear and aligned indicators to measure the Project's achievements.
However, M&E design did not include adequate milestones to monitor sub-project implementation; this was
established later on.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
      The supervision somewhat made up for the shortcomings with the quality at entry. Although the Bank's
internal processing of the first restructuring package delayed implementation for a couple of months, supervision
reportedly improved. The ICR noted that (p. 21), supervision missions were timely and solution focused. The
project restructuring after the MTR, was generally well done; the restructuring turned the project around through
inclusion of alternative land access mechanisms. Technical and safeguard issues were handled via close
collaboration with FAO. However, the restructuring could have included improved mechanisms on technical
assistance and capacity building for the project beneficiaries as well as services to facilitate market access. In
addition, although the project design was revised considerably in 2010, the revision of the result matrix reflecting
these changes was quite delayed (by three years), which could have made the monitoring of project results
difficult during implementation..


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The ICR reported that (p. 22) there was lack of government ownership during the initial years of the project.
The earlier period was affected by significant delays, as it took several months to approve the supreme decrees
that were required to initiate activities under the Project Preparation Advance and approve the first amendment to
the Development Credit Agreement. These delays put the achievement of the objective at risk and considerably
delayed implementation schedule. Also during the course of project preparation, the policies of the Government
towards agrarian reform changed significantly. The model of 'wiling seller-willing buyer' that was envisaged for the
project was not supported by the new administration. As a result of this as well as additional issues such as
increased land prices, the project failed to demonstrate a decentralized model to convert landless farmers into
land owners.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
      The ICR noted (p. 22) the evolving political commitments for the implementing agency and initial
shortcomings in project management but with limited detail. However, the ICR also reported that throughout
implementation, and particularly after the first restructuring, the Ministry of Rural Development and Lands
remained attentive to the actions required to advance the Project and kept open communication with the PCU and
the Bank. However, the institutional oversight by the Vice-Ministry of Lands, had weaknesses mainly due to the
constant rotation of Vice-Ministers during the implementation period. These changes reportedly created a
discontinuity in processes and introduced new perspectives and demands at each change that affected
operations.

The PCU had four coordinators and experienced a high rotation of technical staff. Initial project management had
significant shortcomings in financial management and M&E. Project management improved in 2011 when the
effectiveness of the first amendment allowed hiring a new coordinator and replacing technical staff. The PCU
improved its technical, safeguard, and M&E capacities. However, in terms of financial management, the
shortcomings continued to make the financial monitoring of sub-project investments difficult (See Section 11b).

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The ICR noted that (p. 10), there was no baseline study; but, every beneficiary had to fill in a questionnaire as part
of the process for eligibility, which included key data on household composition, economic activities, income of the
members, and land use. This information was used as a baseline. However, the system developed for sub-project
milestones was weak. The M&E system also included a beneficiary survey to measure results. The PCU maintained a
specialized M&E unit during the course of implementation and also in 2012 hired an environmental specialist to follow
up environmental and social aspects of the sub-projects. The project did not include an impact evaluation.

b. M&E Implementation:
      Initially the process to approve sub-projects was not well established and there was no systematic collection of
information about their progress. The situation improved in 2011 when a follow-up system of sub-project milestones
was established, including a ranking system that provided a quick snapshot of the physical and financial progress.
FAO and the Bank team provided technical support to the M&E unit by carrying out several field visits and adjusting
instruments for data collection. In 2012, the PCU hired an environmental specialist to support the monitoring and
follow-up of environmental and social aspects of the sub-projects.

The PCU prepared a completion report for each sub-project to systematize the experience and monitor key results.
The members of the CODAL also participated in the evaluation of sub-projects, which contributed to their capacity to
evaluate sub-project proposals and the establishment of a decentralized monitoring system. The PCU contracted
external evaluations for the MTR and project closing, and FAO financed a land market study in 2012.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   There is limited evidence on this in the ICR but there are some indications that some of the findings were used to
adjust activities.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was categorized as Category B project in terms of environmental safeguards and the following
environmental and social safeguard policies was triggered according to the PAD (p. 17): Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20), and Forests (OP/BP 4.36) safeguard
policies.

The ICR reported that (p. 11) an Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was
prepared. Reportedly, the PCU complied with the criteria and procedures in the EMP for the environmental screening
of lands, the environmental management of sub-projects, and the mainstreaming of environmental and sustainable
land management practices through technical assistance and training. The PCU employed two consultants to support
the Producer Associations in obtaining all the required environmental permits, strengthening the Project’s capacity to
comply with the environmental legislation and the safeguard policies. All the beneficiaries received training on topics
such as pesticide use, water conservation, and protection of critical or sensitive areas.

In terms of social safeguards, the ICR noted that (p. 11) the majority of beneficiaries were indigenous peoples,
therefore, the Project was implemented with the guidance of an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan. The findings
and recommendations of a social assessment informed project design. The PCU had social and environmental
specialists and each of the municipal offices had social promoters who spoke the local indigenous languages. In
addition a World Bank social specialist based in La Paz supervised social and gender issues. The ICR reported that
the supervision reports confirmed that overall consultation activities were satisfactorily implemented and benefits were
consistent with the beneficiaries’ culture and social organization. A grievance mechanism was set up in 2012 to
provide channels for beneficiaries to present questions or complaints, with a view to strengthen the project’s
responsiveness to beneficiaries’ needs. Reportedly, the entries, most of which concerned questions and requests for
technical support, were recorded and analyzed by the Social Specialist responsible for the system.

The ICR's assessment of safeguard compliance overall is that it was satisfactory.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management had significant shortcomings and the ICR considered the overall compliance as moderately
unsatisfactory (p. 12). The shortcomings were the following: (i) There were weaknesses in internal control and the lack
of an adequate tool to support the timely and comprehensive recording of information at sub-project level and this
prevented an adequate monitoring of sub-projects and timely preparation of financial reports. (ii) The PCU did not
document all the expenses incurred by the PAs, which caused some of them to be considered as ineligible. (iii) There
were some overdue audit reports and delays in resolving observations to audit reports. (iv) Weaknesses in internal
controls also led to some differences between accounting records and financial reports, all affecting the reliability of
financial information. (v) Although FM issues were managed with the agreement of action plans, the PCU had
problems attracting and maintaining well-qualified staff.

Procurement reportedly improved during the course of implementation and overall compliance is assessed as
satisfactory by the ICR (p. 12). The PCU had to update the Procurement Manual for PAs to improve operations of
subprojects and a protocol for the purchasing of livestock was prepared to improve transparency and to obtain
competitive pricing. Also, the procurement staff of PCU provided training to the the fiduciary members within the PAs
on how to perform each procurement activity.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Moderately         Overall Project Outcome: The
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory       combined outcome rating of the original
                                                                               and restructured project is weighted
                                                                               according to the proportion of the Credit
                                                                               that was disbursed before and after the
                                                                               restructuring. As the original outcome
                                                                               is rated unsatisfactory and revised
                                                                               project is rated moderately satisfactory,
                                                                               and the original project had disbursed
                                                                               US$ 3.09 million, or 23 % of the credit,
                                                                               the combined outcome rating is
                                                                               Moderately Satisfactory. Overall, the
                                                                               project exhibited moderate
                                                                               shortcomings, as the project was
                                                                               unable to establish a self-sustained
                                                                               land distribution mechanism that could
                                                                               be scaled up.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR provided comprehensive lessons. The main ones are as follows with some modification of language:

         Pilot land access projects have a higher chance of scaling up when project design incorporates from the
outset a menu of options on alternative models and a means of measuring the comparative effectiveness and
efficiency. This is particularly important when parties with different political views and agendas may take office.
There should be benchmarks for scaling up successful interventions as well as strong monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms to adequately measure outcomes of different alternatives.
         Projects working to improve the productive capacity of vulnerable rural populations are likely to perform
better when they facilitate linkages with markets . A commercialization strategy needs to be developed and
implemented early in the production cycle.
         Interventions that rely on market transactions for expanding land access need to conduct a detailed
ex-ante evaluation of land markets conditions and monitor the dynamics in the land market and changes in land
prices throughout implementation . The ex-ante land market study needs to consider structural conditions, such as
legal restrictions and market segmentation, to assess the potential supply of eligible land.
         Projects looking to expand land access need to consider models based on usufruct rights . Land access
models based on the transfer of usufruct rights could be implemented in settings where land transfers are restricted,
such as communal lands, or where land acquisition is too expensive or undesirable. Particularly for newly
established PAs, usufruct rights could provide them with a more cost-effective way of increasing their capital and
piloting production schemes.
         Decentralized decision -making bodies that incorporate regional stakeholders (municipality, traditional
authorities, universities, and private sector ) help to mainstream consultation and social monitoring and improve
productive potential . Such local decision-making bodies can play a crucial role in the evaluation and monitoring of
investment activities. Given their composition, they can perform the function of social monitoring and consultation.
They can also facilitate the creation of a support network for PAs and become recipients of local knowledge about
regional best practices.

In addition, IEG finds that:

         Areas to implement land access projects , as well as sub-project investments to be supported should be
carefully selected so that beneficiaries can access productive land with potential for sufficient and sustainable
livelihoods. The project experience showed that selection of areas prone to drought and selection of sub-projects
that require substantial pre-investments with longer durations to implement may have serious shortcomings in
terms of providing sufficient and sustainable incomes to poor beneficiaries. If areas prone to drought are chosen
then water distribution investments should also be considered. If sub-project investments that require longer
implementation duration are selected then they should be accompanied with effective and longer term technical
assistance as well as agricultural extension services.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No

Why?     To verify the results of sub-project investments in order to understand how sustainable they are.



15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was quite comprehensive with candid articulation of implementation challenges as well as good formulation
of lessons. It appears to have done a fairly thorough efficiency analysis based on a stratified random sample of
sub-projects. The following points needed attention: (i) The ICR was not very specific about sustainabilty concerns for
the sub-project investments; (ii) No details were provided on the details of TA services and their results.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
