Report No. PID10153
Project Name                     BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA-Road Management ...
and Safety Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Highways
Project ID                       BAPE71347
Borrower(s)                      BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Implementing Agency
Address ENTITY MINISTRIES OF TRANSPORT
Federation Road Administration
Address: Ulica Stjepana Tomica bb,
71000 Sarajevo
Contact Person: Mr. Arif Dilberovic
Tel: ++ (387) 33 21 33 69
Fax: ++ (387) 33 65 06 95
Email: fd-ceste@bih.net.ba
Republika Srpska Road Administration
Address: Ulica Vase Pelagica 10,
78000 Banja Luka
Contact Person: Dr. Dragan Mihajlovic
Tel: ++ (387) 51-309 061
Fax: ++ (387) 51-308 316
Email: dram@inecco.net
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 1, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date           September 24, 2001
Projected Board Date             March 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
BackgroundBosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) is a country that has a central
government, called the State Government, but is essentially divided into
two parts (referred to as the "Entities"): the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina (the Federation), and the Republika Srpska (RS). The central
government has State institutions that encompass the entire country but
each of the two Entities have Parliaments and ministries that function in
a semi-independent manner. The road network of Bosnia and Herzegovina
consists of approximately 22,600 km, with 3,788 km of main roads (of which
about 96 percent is paved), 4,842 km of regional roads and 14,000 km of
local roads. Of these, 2,024 km of main and 2,724 km of regional roads
are in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and 1,764 km of main and
2,118 km of regional roads are in Republika Srpska. Emergency Program of
Assistance. Following the end of hostilities in 1995, an emergency
transport reconstruction program was prepared and presented to the
international donor community in December 1995. This program was
implemented through the Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project (ETRP)
and its successor, the Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
(SETRP). The ETRP was launched in early 1996 for a total amount of US$149



million of which IDA financed US$35 million. The SETRP, launched in 1997,
totaled US$184 million, and was conceived as a continuation of the
activities initiated under the ETRP, of which IDA financed US$39 million.
The primary objective of the ETRP and SETRP was to remove critical
infrastructure bottlenecks in order to permit the resumption of operation
of the country's major transport network. From 1996 to 2000 under the two
projects, a total of US$158.4 million in assistance from the European
Union, the United States, Japan, EBRD, and IDA was made available for
improvements in roads and bridges.    Most of the emergency needs defined
in 1995 have been met, due in large part to the combined activities of the
donor community with funding under the ETRP and the SETRP as described
above: (i) a significant part of the main and regional road networks has
been rehabilitated, based on the needs identified in 1995, with 60 bridges
located on the main and regional road networks repaired and/or
rehabilitated and road maintenance carried out on 1,600 km of the main
network and 750 km of the regional network; (ii) the Sarajevo, Mostar and
Banja Luka airports are now operating to civilian standards; (iii) trains
can run on most of the network, although at minimum safety and technical
standards; and (iv) public transportation has resumed country-wide, the
tram system in Sarajevo is in operation, and 300 buses and mini-buses have
been procured, meeting about 70 percent of the needs identified in 1995.
Also, the local contracting and consulting industries have strengthened
considerably, as evidenced by the degree of competition now existing, and
by the ability of the contractors to submit correct bids on studies and
works, as well as to execute works in a timely and technically competent
way. However, a number of important issues could not be addressed
adequately in the context of these two emergency operations. These were:
(i) the need to establish a sustainable road maintenance capacity
throughout the country; (ii) efficiency in the use of public funds for
road maintenance; and (iii) provide adequate resources to preserve and
improve the serviceability of the existing road network. Without urgent
action on all these three areas, there is a danger that the road network
will deteriorate rapidly with an increased level of traffic, thus impeding
development. Present Condition of the Road Network. Despite the emergency
program, a significant part of the main road network is still in poor
condition, mainly because of: (i) the maintenance backlog accumulated
before and during the hostilities; and (ii) insufficient allocations to
road maintenance and rehabilitation, especially in the Federation. The
lack of funding has contributed to the continued deterioration of the
Federation's main road network, while the condition of the main road
network in Republika Srpska can be considered stabilized; (iii) lack of
respect of axle-load limits; and (iv) increase in traffic volume, whereby
since 1987, traffic increased between 2 and 3 times on road sections
located around the country's main cities, which corresponds to an average
annual increase of about 7 percent. Traffic counts performed in 2000,
during the preparation of the JICA-financed Transport Master Plan, showed
that traffic was about 10,500 annual average daily traffic (AADT) on the
Sarajevo-Tuzla road near Tuzla, 17,000 AADT on the Sarajevo-Mostar road
near Sarajevo, and 15,400 AADT on the Banja Luka-Gradiska road near Banja
Luka. Damage includes deep rutting (on some sections, over 70 mm),
wide-spread cracks, potholes and generally increasing roughness due to a
high density of patchwork and in some cases to structural fatigue.While
road maintenance can still be effective in prolonging the life of the
pavements on some of these damaged sections, more costly solutions will be
required to stop the deterioration, including in some cases partial
-2 -



reconstruction. In addition, the traffic increases mentioned above have
occurred over a period during which basically no road widening has been
carried out. This increasing traffic on narrow roads has a negative impact
on road safety. It is thus foreseen that a number of traffic
safety-related measures such as modifications of intersections and
widening of shoulders (typically only 0.5 m wide) on some of the most
critical parts of the main network will need to be carried out. Road
management capacityFederation Road Administration. Roads are maintained by
separate road administrations for the Federation and for Republika Srpska.
For the Federation, road management is the responsibility of the
Federation Roads Directorate (FRD), which was formally established in 1999
as part of the Federation Ministry of Transport and Communications. The
previous projects in the sector were implemented by a Project
Implementation Directorate (PID). The PID's performance in implementing
the SETRP was rated as satisfactory, and FRD has retained some of the key
PID staff. However, road maintenance has remained severely under-funded
since the end of the hostilities despite agreement reached with IDA during
the preparation of the SETRP. A draft Law on Roads dated July 2001 is
under discussion in the Federation. The draft of the law has been
reviewed and is considered an acceptable legal framework for the road
sector; it should now be adopted without further delay.One of the reasons
for the less than satisfactory performance in the transport sector is the
persistent disagreements between Bosniacs and Croats with respect to the
organization and management of institutions and sectors within the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. While this issue can not be resolved
within the context of a transport operation, a workable arrangement needs
to be agreed upon as soon as possible so that the operations of the FRD
can be strengthened and a stop can be put to the ongoing degradation of
the road network. Republika Srpska Road Administration. In Republika
Srpska, the situation is more satisfactory. A Law on Roads was passed in
1995 establishing the Republika Srpska Road Directorate (RSRD). RSRD is
gradually building up its capacity. The administration now has 49 staff
members and is able to carry out the basic duties pertaining to a road
administration. However, more support will be required to develop it into
a full-fledged administration in areas such as road management, planning
and prioritization for road maintenance, competitive procurement,
environment and safety related activities, and axle load controls.State of
Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Administration. At the State level, a third
organization with responsibilities for road maintenance and development
has been established called the Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Infrastructure
Public Corporation (BRIC). BRIC was established in February 2000 under
the auspices of the Office of the High Representative (OHR), the
international civilian authority in the country. This corporation was
created to deal with inter-Entity and international road transport
matters. These include (i) establishing a coordinated system of road
standards, including geometric design, road safety, and specifications for
road and bridge materials; (ii) planning of overall road network
development; (iii) creation of a road safety database and the capacity to
conduct safety awareness campaigns; (iv) coordination between the Entities
to ensure that safety and maintenance are dealt with in an appropriate
manner on those corridors of significant economic importance to Bosnia and
Herzegovina; and (v) management of inter-Entity and international road
matters. BRIC can perform a useful role in introducing standard practices
to both of the Entity road administrations in these areas. In order to
achieve results in the short term, the BRIC should not consider road
- 3-



network development as a primary area of focus for the time being, given:
(a) the weak fiscal situation prevailing in the country, with adequate
funding not likely to be available for road development in the foreseeable
future; (b) the difficulties of attracting private investments on
acceptable terms to Bosnia and Herzegovina; and (c) the fact that,
especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, road development is politically a
very difficult question, as a country-wide road development scheme
requires the agreement of the three constituencies which, so far, have
shown diverging interests. Instead, it should concentrate on areas where
coordination is needed, and should leave the implementation of road
maintenance civil works to the FRD and the RSRD for each of their
respective road networks.BRIC has received financial support from EU-PHARE
for a short term consultancy contract with the German Technical
Cooperation Agency (GTZ) for expert advice on the institutional
development and orginization of BRIC to help establish it as a functioning
organization with headquarters in Banja Luca, with the expectation that it
would eventually become the country's lead highway agency. In addition,
the Quick Reaction Fund of the Swiss Government has made 50,000 KM
available to BRIC to finance the procurement of its own equipment and
office furniture in order to enable it to become an insititution capable
of operating idependently from the Government ministries. Efficiency of
public expenditures Increasing the efficiency of public expenditures is of
primary importance in a context of scarce budgetary resources and sharply
declining support from the international community. Inefficiencies have
been identified as follows: (i) weaknesses in the procurement process of
maintenance activities funded out of budgetary resources; (ii) a majority
of road maintenance companies (at least 13 out of 19) are still owned by
the Entity Governments; (iii) road maintenance contracts, and to a lesser
extent, road rehabilitation contracts, are awarded on an annual basis, to
follow the budgetary year; and (iv) the absence of a road databank and the
present design standards, which usually lead to overdesigned technical
solutions that do not achieve an optimal use of available resources.Road
maintenance financing(a) Federation Road Financing. Road User Charges are
levied in the form of various taxes and fees. Forty-five percent of the
fuel and road fees are allocated to the Federation Ministry of Transport,
but there is no fixed percentage allocated directly to the FRD.
Consequently the relationship between the road user charges and the
expenditures for road maintenance is weak. New construction is financed
through various means such as local budgets, contributions by enterprises,
and work carried out by contractors but not paid in the year that the work
is performed. The only expenditures financed through the FRD budget have
been routine and winter maintenance. Thus in the Federation, allocations
to road maintenance have so far been insufficient to cover even minimum
maintenance requirements, estimated at between US$15 million per year. (b)
Republika Srpska Road Financing. In Republika Srpska, the situation is
more satisfactory. Road user charges include fuel taxes and vehicle
taxes. Of these, only a few categories are intended for road/transport
purposes. 46.25 percent of the fuel excise duties and 85 percent of the
annual vehicle tax are allocated to the RSRD. The other charges are
allocated mainly to the general Government budget with some amounts also
to the municipalities. RSRD's actual expenditures have shown a consistent
increase from 1997. The approved budget for 2001 is 60 million KM, but the
actual expenditures are expected to be higher than the 2000 level of 67.4
million KM, since the fuel excise tax is estimated conservatively at the
beginning of the year and the budget is adjusted upward as revenues are
-4 -



collected.   Road Safety ConditionsAccording to a report prepared for
EU-Phare in November 1999, the 1997 fatality rate of around 18.6 deaths
per 10,000 vehicles was around nine times higher than the fatality rate of
1.5 to 2.0 deaths per 10,000 vehicles in other industrialized countries
such as the United Kingdom. Because of the breakup of the road management
systems that existed previously when Bosnia and Herzegovina was part of
Yugoslavia, there is little data on accident causes (and hence a reason
for the high fatality rate), condition of the vehicle fleet, and accident
reporting. However, several locations of accident black spots have been
identified and will be addressed by the project. There is also no
coordination of road safety activities between the two Entities. The
EU-Phare report recommended that one organization at the national level
should be tasked with collating the data and analyzing trends, as well as
coordinating all areas of road safety activity. The newly established BRIC
has the potential to play this role but will need to be strengthened in
order to do so. Environmental managementPresent road construction
environmental standards (including mitigation measures) are still those
which were used during the time of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
These standards are in the process of being upgraded and aligned with
international requirements (EU). In addition, since the end of the
hostilities, the Entities' capacity of enforcing environmental standards
and monitoring the impact of road works on the environment has been
limited. This capacity needs to be reinforced, both within the road
administrations and within the environmental agencies.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to improve traffic flow and reduce
accident rates on the country's road network through rehabilitation of
priority road sections associated with identified poor road condition and
accident 'black spots'.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The possibility of utilizing an APL instead of a SIL was explored and
discussed at the Decision Review Meeting. However, while the meeting
agreed that an APL might be appropriate in order to better stage the
implementation of the institutional reforms and to increase IDA's leverage
regarding budget financing for road maintenance, it is not well suited to
the use of IDA financing, and would be difficult to accomplish within the
limited time available for project preparation. Therefore under these
conditions, a SIL was determined to be more appropriate. The alternative
of focusing the project on road rehabilitation only was considered, as
rehabilitation is essential to keep some of the key road sections in
acceptable condition and the prospects for institutional strengthening are
uncertain. While such an alternative would have provided for a simple
project design and straightforward implementation, it would have three
major flaws:it would not ensure the sustainability of the investments
being undertaken, as it would not focus sufficiently on developing
adequate road management capacity and financing;it would unduly restrict
the potential institution building impact of the project, which is seen as
a vehicle for making a major contribution to improved road management
capacity; andit would not address the issue of traffic safety.The
alternative of including a road building component in the project was also
considered, as traffic has increased rapidly since 1987, while virtually
no capacity increase of the main network has taken place. This alternative
was rejected, as increasing capacity would have been possible only on a
- 5 -



restricted number of road sections due to the high cost of this
alternative, and as other aid donors have expressed interest in financing
such activities. In particular, the EIB plans to finance one of the
remaining sections of the Sarajevo bypass, and two proposals have been
received from the private sector for road concessions during the last
year. However, evaluation of these proposals showed that the rationale for
"traditional" concession agreements was weak and that other solutions had
to be found.
4. Description
1. Road rehabilitation and safety. This component covers estimated
maintenance and rehabilitation needs on the main and secondary road
network, including upgrading of drainage, identified accident black spots,
road markings, crash barriers and signaling. It includes the improvement
of 230 km of priority road sections in the Federation (US$26.77 million),
and 290 km of priority road sections in Republika Srpska (US$10.82
million). Project Component 2 - US$3.66 million2. Institutional
Strengthening. This component will provide consultant services for the
institutional strengthening of the FRD (US$0.53 million), including (i)
setting up of a road data bank, introducing the use of HDM for setting
road maintenance and rehabilitation priorities and annual road works
programs, (ii) improved quality control procedures for civil works, (iii)
the use of competitive bidding procedures, (iv) familiarization with
modern road maintenance technologies, (v) improved financial management
systems, (vi) support for the creation of core environmental capacities,
including establishing environmental units in each of the Road
Directorates and the review of environmental standards and monitoring
pertaining to the road sector, (vii) the training of the FRD staff, and
(viii)half of the cost of the audit of the project accounts. For RSRD
(US$2.00 million), it includes (i) assistance in establishing procedures
for works supervision, (ii) setting up road and bridge data banks, (iii)
training in economic analysis and road management, (iv) pavement condition
surveys, (v) support in setting up procurement procedures and units for
traffic managment and road safety and for environmental management, and
(vi) one-half of the cost of audits of the project accounts. It also
includes a program of technical support for the State road administration
BRIC (US$0.45 million), including (i) establishing improved and uniform
road and bridge design standards, (ii) creation of a road safety data base
and conducting safety awareness campaigns, (iii) development of the
capacity to evaluate private sector proposals for investments in road
concessions, (iv) the coordination of inter-Entity and international road
matters, and (v) the training of the BRIC staff. Equipment, materials and
supplies. This component will finance the equipment, materials and
supplies needed to support the project activities, including improved road
management. For FRD, it will finance office equipment and supplies needed
to implement the road data bank, for the operation of an adequate
financial and planning system and a road safety system, preparation of
reports, and vehicles and survey equipment for road works surveys and
supervision (US$0.38 million). For RSRD, it will include road measurement
equipment and related office equipment needed to establish the road and
bridge data banks (US$0.25 million). For BRIC, it will finance office
equipment and supplies, and vehicles (US$0.05 million).
5. Financing
Total                         ( US$m)
- 6-



Total Project Cost               41.25
6. Implementation
The State of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the Borrower of the Credit.
The Borrower will onlend, under subsidiary agreements, respective parts of
the proceeds of the Credit to the Entities on the same terms and
conditions as the Borrower shall pay to the Association. The State
Government will be responsible for implementing its part of the project
through the BRIC, which is now under the Ministry of Civil Affairs and
Communications. In the Entities, implementation responsibility will be
delegated to the Entity Ministries of Transport and Communications. The
implementing agencies will be the Entity road directorates FRD and RSRD.
Each of these organizations had Project Implementation Directorates (PIDs)
under the Emergency projects, which either have been or will be integrated
into their organizations. Implementation at all levels will be conducted
in accordance with the provisions of the Credit and Project Agreements,
and performance will be monitored through the use of the project design
and monitoring indicators (see Annex 1). FRD and RSRD will each have a
separate Special Account. The Ministry of Civil Affairs and
Communications, through BRIC, will be in charge of preparing consolidated
quarterly progress reports on the basis of inputs provided by the Entity
road administrations.
7. Sustainability
The key to project benefits sustainability lies in the efficiency of the
road management structures and the allocation of sufficient resources to
road rehabilitation and maintenance. The project will address the issue of
road management capacity, road maintenance efficiency, and prioritization
of activities according to economic criteria. However, it will not, beyond
the project implementation period, provide leverage to ensure that
sufficient resources are being allocated to the conservation of road
assets, and that only economically sound road construction projects are
being undertaken. These two specific aspects should continue to be
monitored through other Bank activities such as follow-on projects or
adjustment lending. With respect to the creation of a concession capacity,
sustainability will be attained only if this capacity is used to properly
assess the feasibility of concession schemes.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project Implementation Directorates. In an emergency situation where
speedy implementation is crucial and where established institutions do not
exist or where their performance is uncertain, it makes sense to create
special organizations for project implementation that can focus their
attention on the task at hand without being diverted by other
considerations. From this perspective the PIDs proved most useful and
appropriate for the implementation of the two Emergency Projects. However,
they should be seen as transitory arrangements only, and be integrated
into more established administrative structures as soon as feasible. In
Republika Srpska, the PID has already been integrated into the Road
Directorate, and the Federation is in process of integrating its PID, with
its knowledge and competence, into the Federation's developing Road
Directorate. Time Needed for Reform. Even in an extreme, post-conflict
situation such as in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the international
community has more leverage than in most other countries, the prospects
for reforms have proven slim in the absence of local consensus and
-7 -



interest. The situation with respect to the unsatisfactory progress in
establishing the Federation Road Administration during the Emergency
Projects is but one example of this in the transport sector. In this case
there are compelling objective reasons to proceed rapidly with reforms,
but unless these reasons have been weighed in the political process
against the perceived disadvantages for the different ethnic groups,
progress is not likely to be forthcoming. Institutional Components.Closely
linked to the previous lesson is the fact that institutional components of
projects have often fallen short of achieving their objectives. The
frequent changes of sector administrations have been an important factor.
But the scope and timetable of these components have often been overly
optimistic. The institutional component of the project focuses on a few
essential issues. It will be monitored against clear indicators and
targets.Counterpart Funding and Budgets. Counterpart funding has been an
issue under the SETRP. In order to reduce this risk, the Entities' road
programs and budgets will need to be reviewed by IDA each year before the
programs are sent to the Parliaments for the following year's budgets.
The budgets should include the counterpart amounts estimated to be
required during the following year as part of the Entities' Public
Investment Programs.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        In accordance with World Bank safeguard policies,
the project has been rated "Category B" (OP/BP/GP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment). No other environment or social safeguard policies are
triggered by this project. As a consequence, Borrowers in both the
Federation and Republika Srpska prepared individual Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs) for their particular project elements. The EMPs
were received by the World Bank in July 2001 and were displayed in country
in August 2001. Also, as part of project preparation, during appraisal a
seminar is being planned by the World Bank in conjunction with BRIC to
introduce entity government officials to environmental management issues
impacts/mitigation, consultation, disclosure and regulatory requirements
of the donor community and the EU.    The project is expected to have only
minor negative impacts on the environment during the construction phase
as it will focus on road maintenance and rehabilitation activities, with
no resettlement or land acquisition involved. Negative impacts during
construction would be restricted to the direct impacts of road works
related to quarries, asphalt plants, borrow pits, drainage, disposal of
wastes and activities of road crews. After completion, the project will
have positive indirect impacts on human health and safety through
decreased number of accidents; reduced air pollution resulting from more
even travel speeds on rehabilitated road sections; reduced water pollution
resulting from rehabilitated drainage systems; and reduced noise pollution
for those collectivities located close to the rehabilitated road sections.
Materials would be supplied from sources with approved licenses, permits
and/or approvals for environment and worker safety, and any equipment used
during construction would meet internationally recognized standards (e.g.
EU) for the environment and for worker health and safety.5.2 What are the
main features of the EMP and are they adequate?During project
implementation, the provisions of the EMPs will be applied to all of the
activities to be undertaken by the road directorates, including the design
of road works. As appropriate, mitigation measures specified in the EMPs
- 8 -



will be incorporated as requirements in each bidding document for works.
For example, materials to be used (asphalt, crushed stone etc.) would
only be provided from suppliers with valid licenses and/or operating
permits (including any environmental requirements) and this will be
specified in their bid documents. The contracts will contain adequate
provisions to ensure that contractors undertake measures listed in the
EMPs. The road directorates will be committed, under the Project
Agreements, to implement their part of the EMP through their environmental
units to be established under the project and with the support of the
Entities' environmental agencies. The EMP also includes specific elements
of institutional strengthening to assist: (a) in the creation and
technical support of Environmental Units in each road directorate, and (b)
environmental management techniques for road and highway projects for each
entity Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment. 5.3 For Category A
and B projects, timeline and status of EA:Date of receipt of final
draft:              The EMPs have already been prepared and sent to IDA for
review.5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a)
environmental screening and (b) draft EA report on the environmental
impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms of
consultation that were used and which groups were consulted? While it is
expected that stakeholders will view this project favorably, public
hearings will be held for those communities located close to road sections
to be rehabilitated under the project to ensure that those most directly
concerned by the project can, by voicing their opinions and suggestions,
increase the quality and efficiency of the works' design. Maintenance and
rehabilitation works to be funded under the project include activities
ranging from cleaning of ditches and pothole patching to new overlays on
certain road sections. The project will also fund the modification of
dangerous intersections and the creation of parking areas on mountainous
road sections. However, these works will be performed on road sections
that are not located within inhabited areas, and will be confined to the
road right-of-way. Works to be carried out are standard and do not have
the potential to substantially modify the environment within which the
communities are located. Hearings will take place as part of EMP
preparation and will be held in accordance with guidelines to be agreed by
the Road Directorates. A summary of these public consultations is included
in the EMPs5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and
evaluate the impact of the project on the environment? Do the indicators
reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?The Entity Governments will
be committed, under the Project Agreements, to monitor on a regular basis
the impact of the project on the environment. A detailed monitoring
program designed to validate the effectiveness of the mitigating measures
will be included in the EMP. The monitoring program will be implemented by
the Road Directorates, in collaboration with the Entities' environmental
agencies.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Cesar Queiroz
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 8053
Fax: 202 614 0900
-9-



For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the Infoshop during the week ending October 5, 2001.
Lucy Njuguna
L:\050ct0l\BA71347.txt
October 3, 2001 6:13 PM
- 10 -



